The Minister for Education and Science will be aware oi the serious effect of foot-rot in sheep on tha wool industry, especially in the present period of economic difficulty for that industry. I ask: Can the Minister provide any information as to when the foot-rot vaccine developed by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation is likely to be made available to the industry? 
I wish to direct a question to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. I preface my question by reminding the Minister of the fact of the economic importance to northern Victoria and the 
Riverina if the railway line between Tocumwal and Mangalore could be standardised and the fact that this would provide an alternative standard rail gauge link between the two States. Will the Minister inform the House of what steps have been taken or are being taken to ascertain the feasibility of such a rail link and what priority, if any, has been allocated to this project? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, if I believed that this Bill was the only attempt by the Government to grapple with the problems facing the rural community, both socially and agriculturally, 1 would not be very happy. If it became obvious that the Bill had shortcomings and needed amendments in its administration, in the amount of finance or in its scope, and there was no provision for consultation and amendment to it, I would still be most unhappy, because in my view this Bill by itself does not solve anything. But then it is not meant to. It is meant, as I see it, to provide a measure of social justice to people in the rural community and to a certain extent to help some farmers to obtain a more viable status for the future. When we are talking about farmers or farming we are talking about people. I am glad that this point has been made several times tonight, because through helping farmers in many areas we are also helping the people in the small country towns who depend on them. Whole regions can be helped or devastated, depending on the future profitability or viability of farming in these areas. 
The debt reconstruction and build-up provisions in the Bill no doubt are of agricultural significance because they will help to restructure some farms both physically and financially. But I believe that for an adequate policy for the future we need parallel or complementary initiatives in agricultural policy and that if we do not have them we will find higher net income groups coming down into the marginal or sub-marginal sections which are at present under reconstruction and will have a continuing downward pressure of more people into this group who require salvage operations. To me, the 2 points of agricultural policy that have to be looked at urgently to make sure that this does not happen are wool and rural credit facilities. Others have made the point that the wool industry is the dominant primary industry and that its future profitability holds the key to the adequacy of the present legislation. I hope that the Government will have some measures to strengthen the wool industry either for the start of the new wool selling season or perhaps in the Budget. The other point is rural credit The drop is net farm income due to the cost-price squeeze of the 1960s, the drought situation through much of Australia and the fact that capital is replacing labour in our agricultural system, all add up to the staggering debt situation at the present time. I believe that the long term survival of the family farm in Aus-, tralia is dependent to a large extent on its ability in the future to obtain and manage capital. 
Others tonight have suggested different groups of farmers and their liability ratings. I would suggest four groups. We have in the top group those who can survive on present prices and who will be able to service their debt load in the future. The second group will be people who can survive on present prices but who, if they are to continue to have an income parity with the rest of the community which the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  mentioned, will have increasing trouble in servicing their debt load. Then we have in the 2 lowest groups those who can survive only with debt adjustment and those who are rehabilitation cases. Of course, it is the 2 bottom categories that are covered by the framework of this legislation. Unless we can improve our rural credit facilities, the second group of those who can survive at present prices but who in the long term will have increasing difficulty in servicing their debt load and still have a reasonable standard of living - in turn will join the reconstruction group. The biggest single factor in rural credit is long repayment periods, particularly if this is combined with an initial capital holiday. I believe this is more important than low interest rates, but. low interest rates nevertheless are important. 
I welcome the announcement by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  that the Commonwealth Development Bank is to be allowed to provide money for build-up purposes, and that $10m has been advanced for this. I would like to congratulate the Minister and the Government on this provision. I also welcome the news that legislation concerning the Rural Loans Insurance Corporation should be presented fairly soon. I hope that this legislation will result in the institutional lenders providing loans over longer terms and also allow a higher percentage of the net assets or the sale value of the property to be loaned. One of the ironies of the present rural depression is that at a time when some people need capital to improve the efficiency of their farming they are unable to obtain it, even if they could service it, because the drop in land values has reduced their ability to borrow. 
If, as a result of the rural loans insurance corporation - or whatever it finally will be called - when it is established - we still have this credit gap, then I believe we should look at what all the other advanced agricultural countries have had to do and that is, to provide specialist credit agencies outside the general commercial system of lending. If we have to do this it would not in my opinion necessarily imply criticism of our institutional lenders or special pleading for primary industry. To me it would be a recognition of the simple fact that if you want a dynamic agriculture to survive you have to have a facility such as this. 
I want to refer to 2 short quotations to support what I have said. One is from the December 1968 issue of 'Farm Policy'. It contains an article on 'Low farm income policies in the United States', written by Luther G. Tweeton, Professor of Agricultural Economics, Oklahoma State University. He wrote: 
The Farmers Home Administration, established to finance farmers unable to obtain adequate credit from other sources, continues to operate under the same basic framework as established in 1946. Technical management assistance is often provided together with loans. In 1967, the principal indebtedness of the farmer who was borrowing could not exceed $60,000. The maximum term was 40 years; interest was 5 per cent. Federal subsidies to the FHA to support farm and rural housing loans - 
Of course, they are just a part of their overall loans system - from 1961 to 1966 ranged from $349 to $160m per year. 
Just to show that there are people who are not members of primary industry organisations in Australia who support this also, I want to quote from the December 1970 issue of the same magazine. I refer to an article 'Policy and programs for rural reconstruction' by Mauldon and Schapper. 
Under the heading 'Debt Refinancing' they stated: 
. apart from the present need to extend loans through time, institutional credit facilities in Australia to finance land purchases beyond 10-15 years are the exception rather than the rule. Farmers in most other developed countries have credit agencies which lend for periods up to 35 years, and beyond in some cases. 
Some States have expressed some doubts on aspects of the Bill, particularly in relation to paragraph 6 of the Schedule. This states: 
Subject to the provisions expressly made by this agreement, the financial assistance provided by the Commonwealth under this agreement shall be allocated between the forms of assistance under the Scheme as the State considers appropriate but with the general objective that one half of the financial assistance made available over the period of 4 years as hereinafter provided will be applied to farm build-up. 
In other words, it would be generally a 50- 50 division between debt reconstruction and farm build-up. I hope that particularly in the initial period, the first 2 years, this scheme will be administered flexibly. This is because of the more urgent need in the initial part of the scheme for debt reconstruction rather than farm buildup. I would like some assurance that the administration will be flexible in relation to this point. 
As I said before in regard to 1 particular point, it will generally need to be administered flexibly and humanely. We will have to be ready to amend it. If experience reveals certain points that may have to be strengthened, more finance may have to be made available and so forth. To me the Bill represents a genuine attempt to provide social justice to a group of people who, because of a fall in land values, probably have lost most if not all of their life investment or life savings and who, while they are on their properties, I understand, are not eligible for social service benefits. This will provide a future in agriculture for those people who qualify under the debt reconstruction and farm build-up scheme. 
This is not a generous scheme by world standards. It is of interest to note that the Common Market countries, which for 3 years have been studying the Mansholt plan for the restructuring of West European agriculture, finally reached agreement in Brussels on 25th March this year. Those people developed an agricultural reconstruction policy. Admittedly they have a far greater problem and a far greater number of people is involved, but their policy does leave ours behind. At the same time, our policy is a step in the right direction and I welcome it. To conclude, I would like to draw attention to another part of the Schedule. Part I (a), under the heading 'General Principles', states: 
It is recognised that in respect of farm build-up&lt; the particular circumstances of some industries (e.g. apples, pears, dried vine fruits) may need additional special consideration. 
I notice that the Minister did refer to the horticultural industries in his second reading speech. I understand that the canning pear industry in the Goulburn Valley is considering such a reconstruction scheme at the present time. I am no expert on horticulture or oh pears, but there are some real problems there, as some honourable members may know. With regard to reconstruction, the canning fruit growing industry, along with other horticultural industries, is involved in the permanent planting of trees and, in many cases, the word 'reconstruction' really means the removal of these trees so that production can be brought to a more satisfactory level in line with current market demand. 
I am told - in fact, I know - that concerted action is being taken by the industry to find new markets and new products, but this is a long term proposition. New markets, particularly markets of any quantity, cannot be found overnight. It is estimated that by 1976 the 13,000 acres of canning pear trees in the Victorian Goulburn Valley are likely to produce about 140,000 tons of pears. Current market outlets, and allowing for some growth in the market, indicate a market potential of about 100,000 tons. So I believe that it is in some way a growing problem. The Northern Victoria Fruitgrowers Association, which is the major representative of the pear growers in the Shepparton-Kyabram area, is considering at the present time proposals for a special reconstruction scheme for the industry and is thinking of it in 4 parts. The first part relates to personal hardship assistance for pear growers, application for which is before the Government at the present time. The second part is a tree-pulling programme to reduce some of the initial over-production. This is to be followed by farm build-up, amalgamation and rehabilitation. 
I would like to refer to the problems of some of these pear growers at this time. In the canning season just ended there was an estimated crop of approximately 95,000 to 100,000 tons of pears for canning in the Goulburn Valley. Of that amount the canneries were able to take only 70,000 tons. Incidentally, nobody in the industry wanted the canneries to take more because they already had quite a carry-over of pears from the previous year. But the effect on some of the growers, whose quotas had been severely restricted by the general restrictions or cannery restrictions to balance the intake of pears and peaches, has been severe financial hardship. Some of them have insufficient income to cover their daily cash costs. Those costs do not include the cost of chemicals or other variable farm costs. They are day to day living expenses for food and clothing, and so on. These people, while they remain on their farms, are ineligible I believe, for social services, as I understand the position. If they left, particularly if they left as a group, their farms or orchards would bring very poor prices on the open market now because of these restrictions. The capital value of farms and orchards would be virtually nil if a flood of these orchards came on the market. About 100 growers of the total of 600 belonging to the Northern Victoria Fruitgrowers Association are shown, after a survey, to be in this desperate financial plight. As I said, at the present time this matter is before the Government. Last week the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  very graciously saw  Mr Hugh  Cope and myself on this matter. In conclusion I would just make a plea for the social welfare of these people. 
Sitting suspended from 11.26 p.m. to 12 midnight. 
It has been stated here tonight that this whole question of funds through loans for the Shepparton Preserving Co. Ltd has come on us rather suddenly. The 'Shepparton News' of 18th December 1970 carried this headline: 
Loan funds to pay fruit men. 
The same statement appeared in newspapers in the major cities at that time. In fact, negotiations on these loan arrangements had been proceeding for several months prior to December so I think it is rather strange to hear anybody particularly somebody who claims to know something about the industry, say that this has happened suddenly. The 'Shepparton News' of 18th December continued: 
The Prime Minister  Mr Gorton  has agreed to the Commonwealth Government making loan funds available to Victoria to enable SPC fruit suppliers to be paid for their 1970 crop. 
The Victorian Government has to guarantee the payment of interest and repayment of capital over a 10-year period. 
December 18th 1970. 
March 20th. If members of the Australian Labor Party are interested in the dates between 18th December and 20th. March, it could be quite interesting to read what they had to say about the lack of help for the fruit industry by the Government. The newspaper article continued: 
The Premier  Sir Henry  Bolte has agreed to make the legal machinery of his Government available through the Rural Finance and Settlement Commission for the utilisation of loan funds subject to 3 provisos. 
These are: That the Commonwealth Government make the loan funds available to Victoria for the purpose; 
I ask honourable members to take note of the second point because it has been stated here tonight that this money was advanced to SPC without any economic investigation of the viability of the cannery. The next proviso was: the Reserve Bank agrees that SPC is a viable proposition and is prepared to continue providing normal banking facilities - 
Ardmona does not need it because Ardmona is making a profit. If anybody claims that' there has not been an economic investigation ' of the viability of SPC and, when told that the Reserve Bank has made such an investigation, still maintains this, I do not know what to think. I would next like to quote from the 'Shepparton News' of 19th March 1971 and its report of what the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  had said when he was visiting Shepparton the day before. The article stated: 
He ' said he knew many Golden Valley people were greatly troubled by what had happened to pear growers. 
The Commonwealth Government had arranged &amp; loan of $4m to the Victorian Government so that growers could be paid for the last season's pears. 
But there was still the problem of the surplus of this season's crop which he hoped could be dealt with to the grower's satisfaction. 

 Mr McMahon said the Victorian Premier,  Sir Henry  Bolte, had approached him for further Federal assistance for fruit growers in the Shepparton area. 
Submissions were being prepared for him to see what contribution could be made from the Federal sphere towards a solution to the Shepparton problem. 
I commend the Prime Minister and the Government for their action along these lines by guaranteeing funds for the SPC through a loan to the Victorian Government, and I commend also the Victorian Government and the Country Party member for Shepparton,  Mr Peter  Ross 
Edwards. But to refer to Tasmania for a moment, I am well aware of the problem which the honourable member for Dennison  (Dr Solomon)  has raised concerning apple processing and a glut of particular types of bulk apple products in Australia, but I remind the honourable member that if he can talk about Tasmania having certain rights in Australia with regard to apples I can talk about Victoria having a certain right in Australia with regard to pears. I believe that Tasmania processes pears as well. 
When we are talking about the SPC and what it may or may not have done to the bulk apple processing industry in Australia we should be fair and say that it is not only the SPC cannery that is processing apples but other canneries in the Goulburn Valley as well, and that if this finance had not been made available to SPC the result would have been far more severe for the processors in Tasmania because - the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  made this point - the SPC has the largest cannery in Australia. The. SPC is such an integral and important part of the canning industry that if it had collapsed I believe the whole canning fruit industry and the stability of prices in this industry would have collapsed with it. To SPC's credit it processed very few tons of apples this year, but if SPC had collapsed and there had been a liquidation of selling operations thousands of tons of apples would have been released on to- the market. I think this would have had a far - more severe effect on processors in Tasmania than may be the case at the moment. 
Last night the Opposition alleged that the Government was doing little to help the farmers of Australia. Here we have an example of a practical measure to help rural people in real need and we get at best a grudging acceptance of it by honourable members opposite. To me this is quite an interesting contradiction. The honourable member for Riverina has shown sympathy for the canning fruit industry but both he and the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  made the point that possibly we should defer consideration of support for one company until we see whether all the others need it and then we might look at the matter again. When these other canneries can show, in the way that 
SPC was forced to show, that they need assistance I will be very pleased to support any measures to help them, and when this time comes I believe that support will be more generous than that being given to SPC. 
Mention was made of a statement attributed to the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  during the Murray byelection concerning the doom of the canning fruit industry if Britain joined the Common Market. This statement was denied by the Minister. The upshot was that the leading people in the fruit industry in the Goulburn Valley did not criticise the Minister for Trade and Industry because he was speaking for the industry and the future of the industry; they criticised the honourable member for Riverina for his doom tactics. Somebody suggested that we look at the date of the Murray by-election and the dates on which statements were made by the former Prime ' Minister before the byelection. It would make very interesting reading if we had a look at what Labor members said they would do to help the fruit industry in the Goulburn Valley and their statements about what the Government was not doing to help the fruit industry in the Goulburn Valley. 
This Bill is a practical example of what the Government is doing and at the most, as I said before, we get grudging acceptance pf it. If this finance had not been made available to SPC, the, fruit growers who support that cannery would not have received money for the crop which they sold to the cannery approximately 9 months earlier. Think of the situation of those people and the effect on a community of creditors waiting for their money for 9 months. I believe that both the Federal and State Governments were justified in the action they took in saving not only the community in Shepparton but also the whole canning fruit industry of Australia, because SPC holds a key position, in the industry. The new  chairman  of directors of SPC,  Mr John  Cornish, in his report recently stated how SPC'S performance had improved. He expressed great confidence for SPC in the future.  Sir John  McEwen, the former honourable member for Murray, who I believe was a great man, a great Australian and the greatest supporter of the fruit industry, if not of all rural industries, that Australia has seen was instrumental to a large extent in the salvage operation for SPC. I congratulate him for it just as I congratulate other members in government, both State and Federal, for their practical help to SPC and to rural people generally in a time of need. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. The Minister will be aware that the New Zealand Government intends to allow the importation of live cattle from countries in continental Europe where outbreaks of blue tongue and foot and mouth disease occur from time to time. I understand that the cattle are to be quarantined for some weeks at a new animal quarantine station on Soames Island in Wellington Harbour. This island is in close proximity to the mainland, with attendant danger of disease being transmitted to animals on the mainland. Once out of quarantine the animals, although not allowed to be exported to Australia, could easily come into contact with animals that could be exported to Australia. I ask: Do the present Australian regulations covering the importation of cattle from New Zealand provide sufficient safeguards to protect Australian livestock industries? Has pressure been applied by New Zealand to alter these regulations? Has New Zealand considered delaying importation of cattle from continental Europe? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Housing. 
I have listened with interest to the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  to the reply by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and to the speeches that have followed. I believe one has to judge the attitude to a budget of a government or an opposition on the series of statements and attitudes that they present both inside and outside Parliament over a period of time. Because of this I question both the sincerity and the practicability of Australian Labor Party opposition to this Budget. In the short time that I have been in this Parliament I have heard the Opposition put forward a whole series of antidotes to every problem that we face. They always include creating a new federal board, an extra federal commission or an extra department. Probably nobody has excelled from the members on the opposite side in this regard more than the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster).  If one were to accept the Labor Party view on the Budget it would mean the takeover of both State and local government, and make a mockery of the federal system. The lavish promises of finance made by the Opposition in this debate in order to solve all problems would, I believe, if they became a reality, make the social credit policy of setting up a printing press and printing money to solve any problem rather conservative economics by comparison. 
In particular I question the sincerity of the Labor Party on its attitude to rural matters. Members of the Opposition have criticised the wool deficiency payment system. They say that there should be a means test. If they are sincere why did they not say that this means test should be applied to the sugar industry, the dairy industry and the other rural industries? This criticism also shows a complete lack of contact between honourable members opposite and those who are actually engaged in wool growing. If they did have contact with the actual wool growers they would know the impossibility of bringing in such a means test. I exempt the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Allan Fraser)  from this criticism because if the report of a radio broadcast of his as printed in the Melbourne 'Sun' of 23rd August is correct he will oppose this means test provision and vote with the Government. At least he has spoken to actual wool growers and knows that the $30m scheme of last year, which is really the same type of scheme as the Labor Party is presenting this time, was a failure because of the loopholes that could be found in the means test provisions. 
The chief spokesman for the Labor Party on rural policy, the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  published a booklet earlier this year entitled Labor's Federal Rural Policies'. In this booklet he criticised the Government for its loose patchwork and ad hoc rural policy system and lack of overall planning. It is rather a strange irony that exactly the same criticism was levelled at the proposals put forward by the Australian Labor Party Rural Committee to the recent Australian Labor Party Federal Conference at Launceston. It has been stated that the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  a colleague of the honourable member for Dawson, used much the same terms to criticise these proposals. The honourable member for Dawson felt obliged to comment on 'This Day Tonight' on 22nd June in these terms: 
I find it very hard to believe except perhaps that very few members of the Conference know anything about rural matters. 
If the Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party is the supreme policy making body of the Labor Party, as it tells us it is, and if the ALP Federal Conference is stated to contain very few people who know anything about rural policy, how can we accept as being sincere any thing put forward by honourable members opposite as a true proposition for rural policy. 
I believe that the Treasurer has had a difficult course to steer with this year's Budget. On the one hand there is the problem of those suffering from inflation - fixed income earners, pensioners, rural exporters. I believe that generally this group of people has received the most assistance in this Budget. I think all of them could justifiably claim that they have not received sufficient assistance. But let us look at the wool industry. With the current dollar-yen currency crisis, if the Budget had not contained the provision for a 36c deficiency payment scheme which has brought stability into the industry, I believe there would be absolute chaos and panic in the wool industry in Australia at the present moment. 
I am pleased to see that the reconstruction allowance to the States has been increased this year from $25m to $40m. Also a retraining scheme for young people displaced in the rural crisis will be introduced this session. But as yet there is no suggestion of adequate rehabilitation measures in the rural reconstruction scheme. The $1,000 loan is too puny and, I believe, too absurd to be considered seriously. We should consider seriously those people displaced by the rural crisis who are too old to be retrained. I would hope that the other State governments are adopting a more genuine attitude to rural reconstruction than is the Victorian Government. One of the outlandish statements made by the Victorian Government spokesman was that it could not delay the repayment of principal, from people to whom it had loaned money because the Commonwealth required virtually immediate repayment of some of these funds. Yet it is stated very clearly in the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Act that there is a repayment holiday provided of up to 4 years for the States in this regard. I know that in Victoria the biggest number of people affected by rural reconstruction will be the wool growers, but I believe that on an individual basis the Victorian Government could be doing more to look at the problems of a number of pear growers in the Goulburn Valley who are suffering just as much as anybody else at the present time. Their priorities should not be lower than those of any other group in this regard. 
I support all those honourable members who have referred to the failure so far to establish a rural finance insurance corporation or a rural loans insurance corporation. This is an urgent need for agriculture at the present time, and if it is not established the cost to the Australian community will be far greater because more funds will be needed for rural reconstruction. At least one bank economist,  Mr J.  G. Chataway of the Bank of Adelaide, writing in the latest issue of 'Bankers Magazine', accepts the fact that there is the problem of the farmer having to borrow on a long term basis in order to meet his needs. If the trading banks in general believe that they cannot participate in such a scheme, then they should say so and we can then go ahead and recharter the Commonwealth Development Bank to allow it to do the job properly. 
In the Budget provisions for this year the dairying industry is to receive about $6m less than it received last year. This is at a time of considerable uncertainty in the dairying industry because of the failure of the British Government to honour its promises to provide a phasing out period for Australian agriculture if and when Britain enters the Common Market. I am pleased to see that there is a certain degree of agreement on both sides of the chamber concerning Britain's failure in this regard. I can remember quite clearly a 'This Day Tonight' television programme in which the honourable member for Dawson and the right honourable member for Fisher  (Sir Charles Adermann)  both agreed that Britain had failed to honour the promises given by  Mr Rippon,  its chief Common Market negotiator, when he was in Australia last year. Because of the temporary shortage of dairy products on the world market at the present time, the price for these products has risen, and this would be the reason why the Government has reduced by $6m the allocation which it is to make to the dairying industry this year. But I believe that because of the uncertain times ahead, the Government has acted wisely in maintaining a reasonable level of support for this industry. 
The increases in pensions for single pensioners and for totally and permanently incapacitated pensioners are the most gen-, erous that a government has made for many years, and I congratulate the Government in this regard. But there are some who will miss out on the maximum increase either because of some independent income - sometimes this is due to their own savings over the years - or because of the severity of the graduated means test. I would support any debate or study in this Parliament on specific proposals for a superannuation scheme. 
The other problem which faced the Treasurer was the danger to Australia of continued inflation. Referring briefly to cost inflation, the Treasurer partially tackled this by announcing a reduction in the rate of increase in the Commonwealth civil service this year, and I hope that the Government matches this performance by making sure that the increases in salaries paid to these same people are not at the record breaking and inflationary level that they were last year. However, increased charges in the Budget for petrol, postal services and telephone calls will add to inflation. But if what is happening at State level at the present time is any guide, the danger of cost inflation because of what the Federal Government is doing in the way of increasing charges will be rather minor. The States have been given the right to impose payroll tax. They immediately increased the rate of payroll tax. If the increases imposed in the Victorian Budget are an example of what the other State Budgets will impose, these increases will add considerably to cost inflation. 
But what really concerns me with these cost increases is the severity with which they fall on country industry, and I do not mean primary industry so much as country secondary industry which is the hardest hit by increased transport and postal and telephone charges. Instead of the Budget encouraging decentralisation or balanced development or helping the quality of urban life - whatever one likes to call it - by spreading population, it is retarding decentralisation. 
I have said some things that are good about the Budget, but 1 have failed to see any good proposal which the Australian Labor Party has put up in opposition to the Budget. I hope that this is the last Budget which does not contain specific provisions designed to assist decentralisation. What was claimed in the past to be a constitutional difficulty which prevented the Government from providing taxation variations in order to encourage industry to move to provincial towns and cities I believe is no longer a problem since the States have received the right to impose payroll tax. Why cannot the Commonwealth Government co-operate with any State Government that introduces a policy which provides that if an industry moves to the country then that Slate government will exempt or partially exempt that industry from the payment of payroll tax? What is to stop the Commonwealth Government from coming in and saying: We will support you in this measure'? What has encouraged me on this question of decentralisation was the very constructive speech which I heard the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  make at a national development conference held in Canberra recently. It was a well thought out. constructive speech on how decentralisation can be helped. I was also pleased to hear, in an answer which the  Deputy  Prime Minister gave to a question, that the technical sub-committee of the CommonwealthState Officials Committee on Decentralisation had met 3 times this year, that it had completed its work and that very soon it would be making a final report to the full Committee. I believe it is imperative that this Committee completes its work and makes its final report to the Government as soon as possible so that we can no longer be prevented from having a serious discussion on decentralisation because the Committee's report is not yet available. I have criticised certain aspects of the Budget and I have criticised the Opposition's attitude to the Budget. I believe that the Opposition's attitude has not been sincere or constructive. I support the Budget. 
My question, which I address to the Minister for Primary Industry, concerns the canning fruit industry in the Goulburn Valley. Is there a financial liquidity problem with the Goulburn Valley canneries preventing payments due to pear growers for the 1971 crop? Has the Victorian Government failed to meet its obligations to help overcome problems of poverty amongst pear growers, which have been created by their inability to deliver fruit last season? Is it true that the Commonwealth sponsored rural reconstruction programme could be used to assist fruit growers but in Victoria has not been permitted to be so used? What prospect is there for an extension of rural reconstruction to encompass a tree-pulling programme for horticulture? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Trade and Industry. In view of the fact that Australia is now a member of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, is the Minister in a position to indicate whether Australia will be joining the OECD gentlemen's agreement on whole milk powder? 
I would like to make a comment on this paper. 
That is rather unfair because I have been trying to ask a question on this matter since Monday. Over the last 2 or 3 days, I have been attempting to submit a proposition to the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on this question. To me, the proposal is something that we could call decentralisation of authority - and I hope that this turns to be correct - but centralisation of personnel. With management efficiency, as in many other cases, the only person who does not seem to be considered is the consumer. I fail to see how it will be in the interests of the public that in many cases the person who has to use these facilities and who has the problems associated with them will have to go many miles further to find somebody who can make a decision. 
To give an example in my area - I believe there would be many others like it - Shepparton is the largest city in northeastern Victoria. Its rate of growth is the most rapid in that part of the State. It has the largest telephone traffic. It has a switching station. The centre will be moved to Benalla, which does not have a switching station. Benalla is a smaller centre with not as much traffic. Actually the change would appear to be against the main flow of traffic which is south to Melbourne. What is more, Benalla is in a separate geographic region. For the Shepparton area, the Goulburn Valley and right up to Balranald in New South Wales the contact would not move across in this direction to Benalla. 
I thank the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  for the opportunity to discuss this with him and with the new Director of Posts and Telegraphs in Victoria. This gentleman assured me that movement of personnel would be a slow process and that as many as possible would be kept in their original centres. I hope this will turn out to be true. I certainly will be keeping a watch in my area to see that this is so. One piece of comfort in this paper is in that part which states: 
In addition, improved customer advisory service will be provided where such facilities are currently available and as the need arises these will be established at other centres. 
I certainly hope that some of these advisory centres will be established and that at them there will be people who can provide information and make decisions affecting the consuming public. One part of the paper that causes me concern is that part which states: 
A similar study of the activities associated with post offices and mail services in the country is in hand and it is planned that these services also will be reorganised into a postal area management system. 
To me this is rather a dangerous thing. I would hope that if something quite as radical as that is being proposed members of this House would have a better opportunity to study the matter. If the reorganisation of mail services means the same as the reorganisation of telecommunications activities I doubt whether the service in the country areas will be improved. Evidently the reorganisation is already in band in relation to telecommunications activities. To me it is quite dangerous to think that at some future time we will be presented with something similar in regard to mail services. That would be the worst sting in the tail of this reorganisation. I reiterate that I am not at all happy about the way in which this reorganisation is being carried out, but I thank the PostmasterGeneral for his courtesty in allowing me to discuss this matter with him and the other gentleman. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister in his capacity of Acting Treasurer. In recent times there has been some publicity concerning the problems facing pear growers in the Goulburn Valley of Victoria. Would the Acting Treasurer agree that the action of the Reserve Bank of Australia in refusing permission for the Goulburn Valley canneries to pay growers money owing to them at the end of August has aggravated the problems in the Goulburn Valley? Will he take steps to see whether the Reserve Bank can take a more lenient view of the problems being faced by the Goulburn Valley growers? 
The type of support for rural industry the Phosphate Fertilisers Bounty Act provides is most valuable because it encourages good farm management practices. Phosphate fertiliser is one of the foundations of improved crop and pasture practice over much of Australia. In addition, increased legume pasture production resulting from superphosphate application injects annually more nitrogen into the soil than the total production of chemical nitrogen in Australia. I was glad to hear the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  refer to this point and the possibility that this leguminous pasture and phosphatic fertiliser mixture or combination provides for increased productivity in the north. 
The form of nitrogen produced by leguminous pastures guarantees increased soil fertility and a stable agricultural system without the dangers attendant upon heavy and continued chemical nitrogen application to pasture. This is now becoming apparent in the United States of America and Europe. I think it should be remembered that when environmentalists, ecologists or pollution experts - call them what you will - talk about this subject in relation to agriculture, they usually use figures of American or European origin. They make some very dangerous comparisons. The comparisons are dangerous because they are not true in the case of Australia because of our far more successful combination of superphosphate and legumes to obtain nitrogen than the application of continued and heavy doses of chemical nitrogen which is applied to pastures in some of these other countries. 
In my opinion, Australian agronomists who developed and are still world leaders in legume pasture research have not received due acknowledgment for their work. Several overseas fertiliser companies would possibly now agree with this last statement after they wasted millions of dollars building nitrogen plants in Australia, some of which have never been used. They did this because they were confident in their belief in the superiority of American agricultural technique, and that what worked in the United States just had to work in Australia. They were proved rather disastrously wrong. 
The honourable member for Dawson made comments concerning efficient manufacturing, overseas control, consortia and so on. When he talked about these matters he was really referring to nitrogenous fertilisers rather than phosphatic fertilisers. I think it should be remembered that in this debate we are talking basically about phosphatic fertilisers. The largest producer of phosphatic fertiliser in Australia, the Phosphate Co-op Co. of Aust., has just taken over the phosphate interests of 2 other producers in Victoria. I believe this is a very good thing. It is very good for the primary producers in Victoria and southern New South Wales who use this superphosphate. I believe that the farmers will welcome this aggregation into this giant co-operative because it will guarantee cheap cost superphosphate and efficient manufacturing. At a time when other manufacturing interests were losing money, the Phosphate Co-op Co. of Aust, has always been able to make a profit and sell superphosphate cheaper than anybody else in Australia. 
I support this Bill which continues the superphosphate bounty for a further 3 years at the present level of $12 a ton for ordinary strength superphosphate. Since the bounty was introduced in 1963 at the rate of $6 a ton this Government's support has enabled fertiliser prices to remain reasonably stable and at a price to farmers possibly as cheap as anywhere else in the world. When the bounty was introduced it represented about 29 per cent of the Australian weighted average ex-works price for bulk superphosphate. In the first year of operation, bounty payments cost the Government $18.1m. In 1968 the bounty was increased to $8 a ton and to the present level in the 1969 Budget. This lifted the weighted average of the bounty to over 45 per cent of the price of superphosphate. Government support during 1969-70 amounted to almost $46m, over  H  times the level of assistance in the first year. Since then, the usage of superphosphate has declined due to wheat quotas and the fall in wool price, with the result that the Government bounty payment in 1970-71 was down by $5m. The estimate for this year is that it will be about $3m less again. I have taken these figures from statement 9 attached to the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden).  So the overall reduction in costs to the Government since the peak year of 1969-70 will be at least $8m. I do not know the present ex-works weighted average price for Australia but using the present ex-works price of the Phosphate Co-operative, the largest producer, I find that the bounty will provide a level of support of approximately 36 per cent to 38 per cent this year, or about 7 per cent less than when the bounty was increased to the present rate of $12 a ton. 
As I said earlier, this Bill continues the bounty at the same level for another 3 years. However, because of the considerable reduction in costs to the Government - that is, about $8m - and because of the rural depression, I thought that the Government may have increased the bounty to keep the support at the 45 per cent level. However, I acknowledge that at 36 per cent this is still well above the original 29 per cent degree of support. 
The cost of .production of phosphate fertiliser will almost certainly increase in the 3 years to 1974. In addition to internal manufacturing costs, the cost of rock phosphate from Nauru could easily rise in response to world demand. The ex-Nauru price has risen slightly since the last bounty adjustment in 1969 and Nauru provides, I believe, about half of our requirements. I ask the Government to keep the level of bounty under review and be ready to increase it before 1974. I support the Bill. 
1 direct a question to the Minister for National Development. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a question and answer concerning the cost of the proposed Dartmouth Reservoir on page 721 of Victoria Parliamentary Debates - Hansard of Wednesday, 29th September 1971? The Honourable S. R. McDonald, a Country Party member for Northern Province in the Legislative Council, asked whether the review of the construction cost of Dartmouth had been completed, and if so, what was the original estimate and what was the new estimate. Does the Minister agree with the answer provided to that question by the Minister for State Development on behalf of the Minister for Water Supply that the original estimate was $57.5m and the new estimate is $64m? If this latest figure is correct, can the Minister say when a decision will he made on the construction of Dartmouth as this figure is marginally above the 10 per cent proviso in the escalation clause of the original agreement? 
 I wish to compliment the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and his predecessor, the present Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony),  for their long and patient endeavour until sufficient agreement was reached between the various sections of the apple and pear industry to enable this legislation to be presented. Obtaining agreement is a difficult task with any primary industry that is spread over several States. Probably no section of the industry is entirely happy ' with the scheme, but that is to be expected. Two distinct types of fruit, apples and pears, are being dealt with together. The areas of production are scattered around Australia. Uncertainty exists because the percentage of exports at risk varies from year to year. This has an influence on support levels. 
This is a pioneer scheme, the first of its type for this industry. The Minister summed the situation up, I believe, when in his second reading speech on the Apple and Pear Stabilization Bill 1971 he said:  lt is intended that the scheme will give  . a  considerable measure of stability to the industry to assist it to examine' its other problems and to take steps to meet them. 
At this point, I disagree with the amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  I believe that at this stage- and I emphasise the words 'at this stage' - the proposal that would be introduced if the amendment was carried would add confusion to complication. There is enough complication in legislation on this subject at the present time. The fact that we are dealing with 4 separate Bills and a whole schedule of varieties of fruits points to this. 
I believe that the best method is to take a step at a time to sort out these complications and the inevitable problems which will arise in a pioneer scheme of this type. If this amendment was carried and a statutory marketing authority was introduced too abruptly, it could create a bigger problem and a mess in the industry which would have it worse than it is at the present time. I believe that the approach being adopted by the Minister is the correct approach.  His  proposal is to take one step at a time, feeling the way until each problem is sorted out. I believe that the Minister made this point very clearly when he refused a request from apple and pear growers for special financial assistance to offset the cost of freight increases. Speaking on this point, the Minister urged the industry more or less to put its house in order first before asking for further government assistance. This will mean a single selling organisation for exports, and possibly for each State. Tasmania is moving in this direction already. It will lead to a reduction in the number of brands, economies in bulk packaging, loading and so on. I believe that this in turn will strengthen the hand of apple and pear growers in their freight rate negotiations, just as the New Zealand growers have been strengthened. 
The Hobart 'Mercury' of Saturday last stated that Tasmania will issue one licence only for exports in the 1972 season. I believe that Victoria is to hold a meeting on this subject on Wednesday week. I believe in moderation so that over-complication and confusion do not arise. The industry is moving in the right direction. Ultimately the type of statutory marketing export authority that is proposed is what the industry will have. But I believe that . it should be established by stages and not come overnight. 
The amendment moved on behalf of the Labor Party by the honourable member for Dawson also seeks: 
. a well formulated apple and pear stabilisation scheme. 
This is the vague old general principle that everything will be right the way we do it but everything you do is wrong'. But the manner in which the result will be achieved is never spelt out in detail. 
That is only a general statement. It is nice, and vague although it does sound attractive. It is when the details must be spelt out - in this case 4 separate Bills have been required - that reality must be faced. A bit of reality from the point of view of the Labor Party would not hurt the whole industry. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Hallett)Order! 


 - Mr Chairman, I would like to refer to a couple of points with regard to this amendment because the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has mentioned my position in this matter, and I think the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  did also in his speech last night. The amendment as it is moved does not solve the problem that I was trying to explain last night. The problem that I was trying to explain really concerns the relative position of pears and apples under this legislation. I was not referring to the total cover of 4.4 million bushels, 5 million bushels, 6 million bushels or 7 million bushels but to the relative proportions of the two types of fruit. The point I was trying to make and which evidently has not been understood properly is that because of the overwhelming strength of apples as against that of pears - the ratio of apple exports to pear exports is 4 to I, or 80 per cent of the total - the pear grower feels himself to be very exposed in that he has not any form of guarantee that what he considers to be a reasonable share of any assistance under this scheme can be saved for him. In other words, the quantity of apples sold at risk can dominate the total scheme. 
The point is that no matter what happens the quantity of pears sold at risk could probably not exceed  H  million bushels per annum, but as I pointed out last night the quantity of apples sold at risk could easily rise from about 3.3 million bushels to over 6 million bushels. Even if the figure were lifted to 7 million bushels we still would not be guaranteeing against what the fresh pear exporters of the Goulburn Valley consider to be their vulnerable position. If an amendment were moved to guarantee the stability of this section of the industry it would have to provide that about 20 per cent of the assistance under this scheme be reserved for the pear industry or that some minimum figure per bushel be established below which the support price of pears may not drop. The reason why I do not intend to proceed with any amendment is that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  gave an assurance in his second reading speech that if a relative lack of fair treatment for the pear section becomes apparent he will review the situation. I wanted to make that point clear. Really it is a case of the relative strengths of the pear section and the apple section within the scheme. 
In this Estimates debate I wish to refer to the continuation of the wine excise at 50c a gallon for this year. I know the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  will initiate a debate on this subject in the future, and I wish him well when the time comes. In the document 'Estimates of Receipts and Summary of Estimated Expenditure' presented with the Budget the figure for this excise for 1970-71 was $8,702,325, and the estimate for this year, which of course is the first full year of the excise, is $12m. This would mean an estimated consumption of 24 million gallons for this year, and this will still be short, if it turns out to be true, of the actual consumption of 24,385,000 gallons in 1969-70. Total consumption for the year just ended of about 22 million gallons was a drop of approximately 9 per cent in consumption on the previous year. I know that estimates vary. 
I agree with this. This should not be considered in isolation; it has to be considered in relation to the industry estimate of growth of approximately 10 per cent. I think the wine industry had every reason to anticipate a continued growth of 10 per cent because this growth rate had been occurring for some years. In other words, the progress of a viable primary industry has been halted and in fact reversed by this excise. 
Wine producers' stocks also have increased. A wine producer to a certain extent has to produce ahead of immediate demand, and we will have the added danger of wine stocks building up to a fairly dangerous level because of this drop in consumption. My colleague, the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe),  has referred to a complicating factor with regard to the wine industry in that increased plantings of wine grape varieties have taken place in the last few years. A projected surplus of wine grapes as a result of these increased plantings was made prior to this excise being imposed. The excise will only increase the inevitability of this surplus occurring. In addition to this problem is the almost certain reduction in the use of the sultana grape variety for wine production as this variety is replaced by other varieties. This in turn could compound the problems of the dried vine fruits industry. 
As with any other primary industry it is dangerous to generalise continually when discussing the wine industry. Considerable variation occurs in the scale of the production units, from the large proprietary companies, some of them are under effective foreign ownership, down to the small bulk and/or flagon wine producers. To a certain extent, the variety in the wine industry as demonstrated in these types of ownership is also reflected in the bulk sales and flagon producers through the medium price bottle sales and then to the high price status bottle trade. 
Proximity to large centres of population and tourist areas can influence sales per medium of the week-end traveller and the tourist. I believe that this will become an even more important factor with regard to wine sales in certain areas in the future. 
Furthermore, specific areas specialise in different types of wine. Since the imposition of the excise duty, fortified wines, such as sherry and port, have suffered a far greater drop in sales than table wines, and sparkling wines have hardly been affected. Changes in wine drinking habits would partly explain this state of affairs. But fortified wines, such as sherry, are sold largely in flagons. The influence of the excise is more apparent on flagon sales to which it adds a far greater percentage increase than in the status bottle trade. The problem of price becomes less important when a status product such as that in the high price bottle trade is involved. This fs further reason why the high price sparkling wines are less affected by this excise. 
1 am referring to my electorate only. No plonk is produced in my electorate at all. It is all good wine. I return to my original point on this aspect. Certain companies specialising in sparkling wines can announce very satisfactory results for their year's trading for the reasons I have just given whereas the overall effect of the imposition of this excise has been a considerable drop in wine consumption. 
I represent part of the Rutherglen and north east Victorian wine growing area. The Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  represents the other part of this wine growing area which adjoins my electorate of Murray. This area has specialised for many years in the production of fortified wines and the sale of wine in flagons and bottles in the medium price bottle trade rather than the high price status trade. The producers there have suffered a double blow. They recently produced confidential sales figures to the Minister for Repatriation and to myself. These showed on average a drop in their sales at least as large as the overall Australian average of 9 per cent. This figure did not take into account the estimated increase in consumption, the figure for which has been accepted in the industry. 
I know that wine sales are kept under review by the relevant departments, but I ask the responsible Ministers at least to reduce the excise to 25c a gallon to see whether demand will return to its previous 20J69/71-  R-  n  level and if reasonable growth will follow. If this does not happen as a result of such a reduction, the excise should be abolished. If the excise is not abolished or reduced to a level at which the previous rate of consumption and at least portion of the previous growth rate can continue, then as a direct result of Government action the probability of a surplus in wine production will become inevitable and a previously viable primary industry will be harmed. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (5.20)- Listening to some of the Government speakers discussing these estimates, the Committee could be forgiven for believing that things are not too bad in our primary industries. I wish to point out to the Committee some of the problems grievously affecting the people in my electorate. As I do so, 1 am reminded that the former Minister for Primary Industry, the present Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony),  made a great deal of noise last year about a record sum of $21 5m being appropriated for assistance to primary industries. On that occasion, I pointed out that a record number of our primary industries were facing an economic crisis and that this record sum of $21 5m would be spread out so thinly that in places it would have little or no useful effect. It would appear, unfortunately, that time and circumstances have proved that assumption to be correct. We find today that measures taken this time last year have done little or nothing to solve the problems of our primary industries. As a matter of fact, many of them are in a more serious position today than they were this time last year. 
The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  mentioned a record figure of $275m for primary industries this year. He reminded us that this was 32 per cent more than the 1970 Budget figure. The Minister never mentioned that the people hardest hit by the crisis in primary industries are being bounced from the Federal Government to the State Governments and back again to the Federal Government. They are receiving little or no help from either of these governments. One good example of this is the drought relief procedure in New South Wales. A large part of my electorate, until recently, has been more or less in constant drought since 1963, with only temporary lifting. Because of the cumbersome machinery whereby an area is declared a drought area, many of the graziers received no drought relief. If a property is in a small area where drought conditions are present, that property must wait until a larger area becomes drought-stricken and the Pastures Protection Board declares the area a drought area. Some negotiation with the State Government then takes place. Further negotiation occurs with the Federal Government. More time elapses. The stock has either died or been transported on agistment. Then the Government announces its drought relief conditions. 
I have been approached by many graziers in the Wilcannia Pastures Protection District on this matter. I have copies of letters from the New South Wales Minister for Agriculture to show how the problems of these people are bounced from one government to the other. In reply to a grazier the Minister on 13th July 1971 said: 
As I slated in my letter of 5th January, the reason why road transport rebates were not available before 1st September 1970 was that Commonwealth financial aid had to be sought and obtained before the State could implement such schemes. Commonwealth financial assistance was not forthcoming until that date, and unfortunately, claims for assistance by many landholders in a similar position to you have had to be denied. 
In a further letter, he said: 
I fully realise that the prolonged drought conditions of recent years have cost you and many others in a similar situation in the Western Division many thousands of dollars, but the fact remains that I am unable to assist anyone in respect of rebates for stock on fodder movements made by road prior to 1st September last, because funds were not made available for the purpose until that date. 
Many people in the Tilpa area missed out on any assistance while others who were not so badly affected received it because they did not have to move stock or cart fodder until after September 1970. 
What a cockeyed system this is. If a primary producer is not badly hit by the drought and has been affected by it for only a short while, he gets assistance; but if a producer is badly hit and has been in a drought for a long time he gets none because his stock has already been moved out. While all this was going on - and this is the strange part about it - people in the western Queensland drought area were receiving assistance and the Queensland Government and the Commonwealth Gov ernment were sharing the cost. It is a well known fact that droughts do not stop at border fences. A large part of the drought area that takes in western Queensland also extends into my electorate. Graziers in this area were sharing the same drought conditions but those on one side of the fence were receiving assistance and those on the other side were not. Will someone say this is a well run country when we allow this kind of injustice? 
In my opinion it is useless for the Government to brag about a record amount of $275m being spent on the rural industries if this type of thing is the end result. We should have a national drought scheme whereby the conditions of assistance are clearly stated so that when drought hits an area the grazier will know just how much assistance he will receive and what steps he will have to take himself. This will allow some planning and probably save many thousands of dollars to say nothing of the many thousand head of cattle and sheep. - It would appear to me that, as far as my electorate is concerned, the Rural Reconstruction Board is being handled in the same lopsided manner and those most in need of assistance are getting the least support. I have read a report of the Upper Darling District Council of the Graziers' Association of New South Wales held on Friday 9th July which reported that statistics showed there were about 38,000 wool growers within New South Wales, including 18,000 in the western district and that during the last 6 months the Rural Reconstruction Board had received 1,057 applications from the whole State - a little over 2i per cent. However, in the western division applications received in the past 6 months total 362, representing a little over 20 per cent of the western division wool growers. Of this number only two have been settled. The report went on to say that the rise to 36c per lb for wool may mean the difference in a small number of cases, whereby the Board could consider the property viable and would render assistance to the grazier. 
The only conclusion that one can draw from these figures is that both the State and Federal Governments are prepared to write off most of the graziers in this vast area. This will prove to be false economy as far as the nation is concerned as in normal times this area has been returning a greater income for the amount of capital invested than all other areas of New South Wales. Even a continuous drought from 1963 to 1970 would not have put many of the producers in the position they are in today had not there been a temporary lifting of the drought on 2 occasions when they borrowed money at high prices to restock and on each occasion sold at giveaway prices and did not have a chance to repay the bank. 
I am sorry that my time is fast running out. but I want to draw the attention of the House to the Australian sheep industry survey of 1960-61 and 1962-63. I remind the House that recently the New South Wales Government brought down legislation whereby it allowed a grouping of the western land pastoral leases and also allowed companies under certain conditions to take over these leases. If one reads the survey one will understand why companies would want to take over this area. I refer to page 108 of the survey which gives a summary table of New South Wales by zones. It shows the rate of return on capital for the high rainfall zone of 4.6, for the wheat-sheep zone 7.1 and for the pastoral zone - the zone I am talking about - 1 0 per cent. 
MrFitzPATRICK - Here is the book. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I ask the Minister for National Development whether he is aware of a new treatment process of fluid milk called ultra high temperature sterilisation, or UHT, which enables milk to be kept in a non-refrigerated but fresh condition for at least 6 months. Is the Minister aware that this milk is now produced in Australia? Will he consider the use of this type of milk before reaching a decision on the availability of milk for free milk schemes to which he referred in reply to an earlier question today? 
I present the following petition: 
To The Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House or Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on. a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That, as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, should: 
Increase monetary aid for the refugees to at least $5m immediately, even if this entails reduced spending in other areas. 
Encourage and sponsor teams of volunteers with needed skills and medical supplies. 
Maintain all this aid for as long as the crisis persists. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Australian Government ever offered canned deciduous fruit as aid to needy countries? If so, has any country ever accepted such aid or refused such aid? 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman, I wish to devote the time available to me to the question of appren tice training. In particular I refer to the country apprenticeship scheme which is the responsibility of the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  and his Department. The costs of this scheme form part of the total estimated Budget expenditure of $20. 5m for this Department for this year. In Australia and overseas some recent comment has been made on the possible oversupply of the products of tertiary education. Reference has been made to the continuing shortage of skilled tradesmen and technicians, the products of apprentice training and related training schemes. In addition to the general problem of apprentice training there is the special problem of country apprentices. The recent and continuing decline in farm income has resulted in an increasing number of farmers' sons and farm-minded country town boys seeking an alternative to farm employment. Unfortunately, this farm recession also has reduced the ability of the majority of employers in provincial cities to provide apprentice training for these people. 
Figures provided by the manager of the United Bearing Corporation Pty Ltd in Echuca and obtained from the Victorian Apprenticeship Commission show that the number of apprentices in country areas in Victoria declined by more than 8 per cent between June 1968 and July 1971. In Echuca only 10 per cent of students doing trade courses at the Echuca Technical College will be able to enter apprentice training in the area. This year the United Bearing Corporation - the major engineering works at Echuca - had 30 applications for the 10 positions provided by it. The official quota for the factory is 5 apprentices. I acknowledge the predominant responsibility of the States and individual employers for apprentice training, and I congratulate the present Government on its foresight in introducing the country apprentice scheme in 1963. Since its inception, I am told by the Department of Labour and National Service, the scheme has cost more than $3m and, in 1970-71, 970 employers were paid more than $400,000 in incentive payments and 738 apprentices received more than $150,000 in living away from home allowances. 
However, the scheme and its financial incentives have not been altered since 1963 and now is an opportune time to revalue the incentives and amend some of the provisions. The scope should be widened from the present 5 industries to include all proclaimed trades or at least those trades in which there is considerable country employment, such as that of textile mechanics, and those which provide greater scope for the employment of girls as apprentices. A reduction of the averaging period from 5 to 4 years, in line with the reduction of the length of apprenticeship generally, also would be a step in the right direction. The living away from home allowance, of $5.25 a week for a first year apprentice and $2 a week for a second year apprentice doing a 5-year course, has remained unchanged since the Act was introduced. Because of the erosion of monetary values, this should be upgraded or revalued. The Minister mentioned that this aspect was under review, and I would welcome an early announcement of his decision. 
Similarly, the amount paid to employers as an incentive, of $26 a month for each apprentice employed above the average intake of apprentices for the previous 5 years, also should be increased and we should alter the basis of the incentive provided by the scheme. At present, once an employer has taken advantage of the incentive for 5 years he is no longer entitled to any incentive assistance. With the problems presently being encountered in provincial cities, employers are having sufficient trouble employing their ratio of apprentices without adding to that trouble. I suggest that it would be to the advantage of the scheme for the basis of the incentive to be altered so that the incentive would be paid in respect of every extra apprentice above the recommended tradesman/ apprentice ratio, forgetting about the number of apprentices above the average for the previous 4 or 5 years, and/or paid to those who employ the maximum number provided by this ratio. This is a valuable scheme, but I believe that it could be improved to the general advantage of the nation, with its requirement for skilled tradesmen, country industry, employment in country areas and young rural people requiring a new skill because of the rural recession. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
It is obvious the people of Australia are vitally concerned about the welfare of some nine million East Pakistan refugees that have crossed the border into India. Also they are equally concerned about the desperate plight of millions of displaced persons in East Pakistan, many of whom are worse off than the refugees, as they are not even receiving relief supplies. The involvement of the Australian is evidenced by their willingness to contribute substantial funds to voluntary agencies, to assist their work in these countries. 
As some twenty million refugees and displaced persons are today facing acute problems of hunger and privation - nutrition and child family problems - ultimate famine and death on an unprecedented scale - the Commonwealth Government must plan to come to their assistance in a more sacrificial way. 
Your petitioners therefore most humbly pray that in tackling these great human problems in Bengal, by far the greatest this century, the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, will request that a special meeting of Cabinet be called to provide $10m for relief purposes in India and East Pakistan, and a further $S0m over three years to help rehabilitate the refugees in East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The Department of National Development and the River Murray system are involved in many ways at the present time. I do not mind being parochial and reminding honourable members that I represent the Murray electorate. It is so-called because the northern boundary of the electorate is the Murray River from Rutherglen to Gun bower and within the boundaries of the Murray River system - the largest river system in Australia - is to be found the great bulk of the irrigated agricultural areas of Australia. In this area are also the large populations of many provincial cities along the river and a high percentage of the urban population of South Australia which depends directly on the water from the Murray River. The future expansion of South Australia is linked with a continuation of good quality water from the Murray River. By the year 2000, approximately 600,000 acre feet of water will be required to service this urban population in South Australia. This makes it all the more tragic that the building of the Dartmouth Dam which is still some time in the future has been delayed by the Labor Government in South Australia for such a long time that it has allowed the costs to escalate beyond the 10 per cent which was allowed for in the original agreement so that the dam, when it is built - I sincerely hope it will be built - will cost at least $7m more than it would have cost if the original agreement had been accepted initially by South Australia. 
On examining the debate that took place in this Parliament on the question of Dart.mough Dam and the River Murray Waters Agreement about 15 months ago, it is tragic to read that the attitude of the Labor Party in this place put in jeopardy the future of the great irrigated areas of Australia and the future urban expansion of South Australia. Today, there is still some doubt as to whether the Dartmouth Dam will be constructed because of the cost escalation. Because South Australia has at last passed the necessary legislation, proclamation will take place in the 4 Parliaments within a few weeks and under the terms of the Agreement there will then be a 6 months period for the 3 States which are involved and the Commonwealth to say whether the dam will be constructed. I hope that in the interest of so much of Australia there will be no procrastination on this occasion by any of the States because it is of vital importance that we build the Dartmouth Weir. Not only will Dartmouth provide more irrigation water for the 3 States concerned - for example, in South Australia it will lift the total flow in the 4 dry months of the year, namely, the critical months of December. January. 
February and March by an average of 26i per cent a year - but it will also do much to help to reduce the salinity problem which hangs as a threat over the whole system. 
I believe the Labor Party opposed it both here and in South Australia. 
The Labor Party opposed it. While the problem of reducing salinity is important, there is also the important point that Dartmouth Dam will increase the annual river flow in the 2 months of June and July by 75 per cent. This is most important to provide the necessary dilution of the river - the flushing out effect of the river - because of the build-up of salinity which takes place during the year. 
I have already mentioned that; this is an added bonus. 
This brings me to the general problem of salinity and the investigation into this problem which was brought about by the River Murray Commission after the very dry years of 1966-67. I am told that over 1 million tons of salt go down the Murray River every year. At the Hume Weir there is only about 120,000 tons of salt and in the 2 basic divisions of the River Murray - the upstream area from Kerang which is referred to as the Riverina area to cover both the north and south side of the river and below Kerang, which is known as the Mallee Zone - about 700,000 tons of salt enters the river upstream from Kerang through the tributaries and the drainage works of the irrigation settlement. 
I think he has just about pickled himself already because he had to relent and pass the legislation. Below Kerang about 300,000 tons of salt enters the river mainly through subsurface ground water. In the recommendations of the salinity investigation report the point of drainage, particularly in the upstream Riverina zone area, is of considerable importance, but unfortunately if all the necessary surface drainage is to take place it will increase the amount of salinity in the river downstream by 40 per cent by the year 2000. This means that other things will need to be done as well, such as building evaporative basins. The Barr Creek diversion is the first of what I hope will be many steps in this direction. 
There is also the important question of farm management practices. I have had some personal experience with this question of farm management extension because I belong to the Victorian Irrigation Research and Promotion Organisation which has already organised a considerable number of demonstrations, field days and seminars on this general question of improved farm management practices and salinity. In addition, on the southern side of the Murray there are the community owned research farms at Swan Hill and Kerang which have been mentioned in the report and because of the increasing amount of research that is being done on these community farms in the best interests of reducing salinity it is becoming increasingly difficult for these farms to carry on. enough commercial farm enterprise to pay their way. 
The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  will be mentioning similar organisations on the northern side of the Murray River and it is my hope that the Minister will give careful consideration when this is presented to him in due course to providing some form of assistance to these unique community backed and sponsored organisations and research farms. It would be a good investment, having regard to the farm management practices referred to in the salinity report. I would like to commend the Minister on the initiative that he has displayed in pushing for the serious considerations of this salinity report. In an answer to a question by the Honourable Michael Clarke, the Country Party member for Northern Province in Victoria which was given by the Honourable Vance Dickie, the Minister for State Development in the Legislative Council, on 7th September, the Minister revealed that the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  had written a letter to the States concerned and made certain positive recommendations for the implementation and further study of the salinity investigation and he mentioned that the River Murray Commission would accept responsibility in those cases where increased salinity had resulted from its own works and structures. He also mentioned that the drainage works required in much of the salinity work would now become eligible for assistance under the National Water Resources Development Programme. 
I would urge the sympathetic consideration of the Minister to any requests that do come in due course from the States in this regard because of the importance of the matter. The Minister also mentioned the 2 categories which would be covered or which would be eligible for consideration and these are the drainage works of the State irrigation authorities, which are basically surface drainage, and works to intercept sub-surface saline drainage from natural ground water sources further downstream. The Minister for National Development also made the point of collaboration between the States so that together the Commonwealth and the 3 States could get on with the job, work out the priorities and do the best that can be done to maintain and preserve this very important river system. A part of the preservation of that river system is the building of the Dartmouth Dam as soon as possible. 
I address a question to the Acting Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry. Is it a fact that the United States has awarded extra meat quotas amounting to 44 million lb because of quota short falls from other exporting countries, principally Australia? Has New Zealand been awarded almost 21 million lb of this extra quota? Can the Minister explain why New Zealand has been able to fill its meat quota to the United States and now fill an extra quota when Australia could not, particularly as New Zealand faces similar dock strike problems to those facing Australia, and which  affeat  shipping to the United States? 
Has the Acting Minister for Primary Industry seen reports that recent rains in the Riverina will probably improve the survival rate of young locusts and enable them to swarm and to fly south  and east to the eastern Riverina and to Northern Victoria? I remind honourable members opposite who are trying to interject that I am referring to genuine locusts. Has any request been received from the Victorian or New South Wales Governments for possible assistance if the locusts do reach plague proportions? 
Animal quarantine is a responsibility of the Department of Health, and it is this part of the Department's work to which I wish to address my remarks. Recent developments in animal quarantine in several overseas countries are enabling these countries to leave Australia far behind in animal breeding improvement techniques. The Australian cattle, sheep and goat industries need infusions of new genetic material, and a quarantine station which will allow these breeds and strains to be imported is the only effective way to achieve this. We urgently require such a maximum security quarantine station and diagnostic laboratory established on an off-shore island. The diagnostic laboratory section is as necessary as the quarantine facility. The Australian livestock industries arc the backbone of our agriculture and our exports. 
Although Australia is one of the most important livestock countries, it possesses fewer disease testing facilities than other advanced agricultural countries. For example, any transmission testing for blue tongue has to be conducted in South Africa. Already unnecessarily large profits are being reaped by the United Kingdom and New Zealand interests because of our policy. With the exception of New Zealand for the last 2 years, no  bovine3  have been allowed into Australia since 1958. Since 1969 the importation of cattle semen has been permitted from New Zealand and the United Kingdom. Improved testing and quarantine procedures developed since the 1950s have been reflected in the quarantine stations now established or about to be established in several countries, and in our own rapidly changing semen import regulations. 
From a position of no semen imports from the United Kingdom we have moved to one where we allow imports after 2 years quarantine of the semen after certain health tests on the donor bull before semen is taken from him, and, since September of this year, imports are allowed after 12 months quarantine following health tests. Approximately 150,000 doses of semen valued at about $1.5m have entered Australia from the United Kingdom in 2 years, and the flood of expensive semen from this source has just begun. Charolais has been the major breed, but after May of next year simmental will probably surpass it. New Zealand semen from imported United Kingdom bulls was subject to 12 months quarantine before its entry was allowed into Australia, but as of last Friday this period has been reduced to the bull's 6 months residence at an artificial insemination station after a satisfactory blue tongue test. This blue tongue test is to be conducted at Somes Island, which is the new quarantine station in Wellington Harbour. In other words. New Zealand can do it but we cannot. 
In September we also altered our import regulations for live animals from New Zealand, so that New Zealand can now import cattle from France without jeopardising her booming trade of exporting to Australia the progeny of imported United Kingdom bulls. This trade is only beginning, but already over 1,000 charolaiscross cattle have been sold at exorbitant prices to Australians. Thousands of doses of unnecessarily expensive charolais semen also are being sold to Australia by New Zealand. Before long simmental and limousin-cross cattle will also be exported to Australia. I understand that the Animal Production Committee of the Standing Committee on Agriculture is investigating this question of exotic breeds of sheep, cattle and goats which would be of value to Australia. A quarantine station would be required to allow their entry into Australia. I have been encouraged by the report in the Queensland 'Country Life' of 28th October last of a speech by  Mr R.  W. Gee, the Assistant Director-General (Animal Quarantine) of the Department of Health, which he made to the University of Queensland Veterinary Students Association. He said: 
If  Australia is to maintain a leading position in the production of meat and animal fibres, we must retain access to all genetic material available in the world, so long as our country is not exposed to the risk of importing exotic diseases. 
Techniques have now been developed that will permit the importation into Australia of exotic animals from most countries of the world, provided facilities are available that will allow the close segregation of such animals in a high security quarantine station, the testing of them for exotic diseases in the  country of  origin first and again through a high security laboratory in this country after their arrival. 

 Dr Helen Newton Turner of the Division of Animal Genetics of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, and possibly the leading sheep geneticist in Australia, is another distinguished and enthusiastic supporter of the need for importing exotic sheep breeds into Australia. She mentioned several of these heat tolerant carpet wool types and wool-less sheep breeds in an article entitled 'Exotic Sheep Breeds of Value in North Australia', which was published .n the July issue of Wool Technology and Sheep Breeding'. If we had some of these carpet wool types of sheep in Australia at the present time we might not be hearing the argument which we hear in this chamber about the imports of wool from New Zealand. 
I am not opposed to the use of semen for the introduction of new breeds and new genetic material. I am a director of the Victorian Artificial Breeders Cooperative Bull Farm Bacchus Marsh Ltd, the largest artificial breeding establishment in Australia. It produces about half of the cattle semen produced in Australia. So I hope that I am a constructive supporter of artificial insemination in cattle. But sheep semen techniques are not very reliable, and very few countries from which we would want to obtain sheep would have the technical capability to produce viable, diseasefree semen. The latter is also true of cattle and goats. Furthermore, the development of a new breed by artificial insemination by crossing with an existing breed takes about 20 years, and even then the genetic pool available for the breed is too limited. A total of 240 santa gertrudis cattle were imported from the United States in the early 1950s, and the successful and rapid establishment of this breed indicates that about 200 head of a breed are required. One of the desirable heat tolerant beef breeds, the afrikander, is having difficulty in being successfully established here because less than 10 were imported. 
The type of quarantine station at Some Island in New Zealand or Gross Isle in Canada, while suitable for receiving cattle from advanced temperate countries, would not be sufficient for Australia's needs. Because of the midges and other insect carriers in our climate, a station would have to be located on an island about 50 miles off-shore and be capable of holding 200 to 300 animals at a time. It would have to provide security for animals from countries in Africa and the Middle East, with their diseases, as well as to safeguard against the introduction of the foot and mouth problems of northern Europe. I am told that this is technically possible, and  Mr Gee's  statement, which I quoted, confirms this. I was pleased to read in the annual report of the Department of Health that a veterinarian from New South Wales visited Gross Isle in Canada last year. But such a quarantine station would be expensive to maintain, and people importing animals would have to pay the cost of the quarantine. Canada is importing hundreds of cattle a year, and 1 believe that the cost of the service to the importer is about $2,000 per head. There is no doubt that our demand would be as great. Briefly, some of the types of livestock that would be of value to us are heat and tick tolerant beef cattle varieties and also beef and dual purpose cattle breeds from Europe. In sheep there are the heat tolerant carpet wool varieties, heat tolerant woolless vanties, temperate carpet wool types and temperate woolless mutton types. In goats there are the improved mohair types. In addition to the saving to Australia from the United Kingdom and New Zealand profiteers - this saving would be very considerable - such an island would be of immense value to Australia and its livestock industries in the future. 

 Dr CASS (Maribyrnong) (5.36&gt;- With the increase in technological changes in medical practice the costs inevitably are soaring and this holds for any country whether it has our particular brand of national health scheme or the American variety, which is supposedly wedded to the fee for service private enterprise system or the system in the United Kingdom and other European countries which has a tendency towards salaried service. But when the Australian Labor Party proposes, in order to cope with our problems here, that we might achieve greater efficiency in the hospital service and at the same time employ the specialists in the hospitals on a salary, that we might reduce the cost of medical care if for no other reason than that we might eliminate some unnecessary surgical procedures, there are usually loud laughs from those who disagree with that policy and suggestions that it is all nonsense. They suggest that we all know that if people get something for nothing they will over-use the system. The suggestion implied in this is if one can get an operation for nothing one is more likely to have it; surely an idiotic suggestion because I do not think anyone would suggest that having an operation is fun. People only have them because they need them. ( would like to quote some facts and figures to confirm the suggestion that we are making that a salaried service, far from increasing the rate of usage of medical services, would tend to reduce it and would certainly reduce the cost to the community. Firstly I would like to quote from what was said by the late Professor John Read when discussing this problem of a fee for service. He said:  a decision, conscientiously made, not to operate on a patient, may bring the doctor a fee of $5-20. 
This depends on whether he is a general practitioner or a specialist. He continued: 
A decision, equally conscientiously made, to operate on the same patient, may bring the doctor an additional fee of $20-$250. Provided the fee concerned in each case is 'the most common fee' on the Commonwealth list, and the patient is insured against medical costs, the direct cost to the patient will be $5 or less. 
In other words, the patient has no financial incentive to have or not to have the operation. It still costs him $5 because the bulk of the fee is met from benefit funds and the Commonwealth. So the doctor weighing the issue up is faced with the prospect of using his judgment to decide whether to operate on a patient with a painful tummy. It might be an appendix but he might wait till the morning to see whether it settles down. With some anxiety and after waiting through the night to ensure that nothing goes wrong with the patient, he will get the glorious fee, if he is a specialist, of $20. On the other hand, if he decides to take out what might be a lily white appendix the problem is solved in an hour and he can go home to bed and rest content with the thought that nothing is likely to go wrong and collects a fee of $200. I am not sure what the fee for an appendicectomy is. The point is that he collects the fee and the patient has had an operation which may well have been unnecessary. This is often the case for when the specimen removed on operation is sent to the pathologist the pathologist's report comes back with the remark 'normal tissue'. This is not an uncommon occurrence. 
To try to give another example of the influence of fees on the way doctors treat patients, quite by accident I came across an article which purports to show the results of changing from what is in essence a salaried service - a capitation fee where a doctor does not get a fee for every service he provides but a set rate no matter how often he sees the patient - to one where the doctor is paid a fee for every service, amongst patients who pay nothing anyway. This was in Baltimore and service was being provided to indigent patients who did not pay. The interesting finding is that in a group of people, although one would expect getting a service for nothing that these patients would use the opportunities to the maximum - I do not necessarily agree with that view but it is the commonly held view - it was found in 1961 and 1962 when the physicians were paid on a salary basis that the visits per person per year were 2.7 and 2.6 respectively. After changing to a fee for service system straight away the figures shot up to 3 and 3.2. Prescriptions per patient before the change when the doctors were only treating them on a salary basis numbered 5.5 in 1961 and 5.1 in 1962. But when they changed to the system where the doctor got a fee for prescribing, the number of prescriptions per patient jumped to 6.2 and 6.5. In percentage terms there was a 17 per cent increase in the utilisation of physicians' services when they changed from a salaried system to a fee for service system. So let us not be fooled by this claim that if people get something for nothing they will over-use the service. 
The next point I would like to raise refers to the hospital situation. I have suggested before that by employing specialists on salaries we would increase efficiency and overcome many of the objections people now have to the large public hospital system. One knows that one has to go along and join long queues. One gets an appointment to see the specialist at one o'clock but turns up at 12 o'clock to get at the head of the queue. However, so does everybody else and one finishes up waiting till 3 or 4 o'clock anyway because the specialist is not there. This is not because he is playing truant but because he is quite legitimately busy treating a private patient somewhere. After all, he has to earn his living and he has a right to look after his private patients. So with the pressures on him and the need to earn a living he is busy treating a private patient and turns up late for his clinic. One hospital in Australia recently experimented with a change from the fee for service system or, as it is known in the large public hospitals, the honorary system - the system whereby specialists provide their services for nothing. The Perth Hospital in 1968 changed to a sessional payment system. The surgeons and physicians are paid a sessional payment for being at the hospital on time to look after their clinic and it is interesting to note what happened at the Perth Hospital. 
Before the changeover the monthly admissions to the hospital were 1,600 patients. After the change, in a couple of years it had risen to 2,200 patients a month but at the same time the average bed stay fell by 2 days. In other words, the average admission period for patients fell by 2 days. This can save a lot of money if the average was somewhere about 12 days before the change-over and it then dropped to 10 days. This is quite a considerable saving. Professor Joske gives these figures and he calculated what they were equivalent to in terms of the number of beds required. This was a 600-bed hospital and there wa an increase of 225 beds at that hospital but this was achieved without increasing the number of beds by one. In capital expenditure terms it represented a saving of over $5m, which is the cost of erecting a 225 bed hospital. In other words, over a year they were able to treat 7,000 more patients without increasing their resident staff or the nursing staff. No increase at all occurred in the number of doctors. The cost in terms of salary for the visting physicians was a mere $50,000 a year. 
Let us stop talking nonsense about the sacrosanct doctor-patient relationship depending on a fee for service. That implies that the surgeon or the physician sums up a patient on the basis of whether the patient can or cannot pay for the service before the surgeon or physician treats the patient. That, in my mind, is an insult to the medical profession. Whether a patient can or cannot pay is irrelevant. Members of the medical profession treat patients irrespective of this fact. We must accept the fact that doctors conscientiously want to treat patients. We would get far more efficient service if the doctors were paid a salary instead of a fee for their service. Then we would eliminate this incentive to overtreatment on the part of doctors. It is not a conscious incentive. It is an unconscious one but it is still inevitably there. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of Australia respectively showeth: 
It is obvious the people of Australia are vitally concerned about the welfare of some nine million East Pakistan refugees that have crossed the border into India. Also they are equally concerned about the desperate plight of millions of displaced persons in East Pakistan, many of whom are worse off than the refugees, as they are not even receiving relief supplies. The involvement of the Australian is evidenced by their willing ness to contribute substantial funds to voluntary agencies, to assist their work in these countries. 
As some twenty million refugees and displaced persons are today facing acute problems of hunger and privation - nutrition- and child family problems - ultimate famine and death on an unprecedented scale - the Commonwealth Government must plan to come to their assistance in a more sacrificial way. 
Your petitioners therefore most humbly pray that in tackling these great human problems in Bengal, by far the greatest this century, the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, will request that a special meeting of Cabinet be called, to provide $10m for relief purposes in India and East Pakistan, and a further $50m over three years to help rehabilitate the refugees in East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 The 2 Bills on diesel fuel now under discussion will raise the amount of tax to be levied on diesel fuel. These Bills also raise the question of exemptions from diesel fuel tax. In this context I want to congratulate the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  for the recent exemption of municipal street sweepers with hoppers attached from the diesel fuel tax. As I understand it, prior to 1st July this year a street sweeper which did not have a hopper attached was classed as road plant and was therefore exempt from diesel fuel tax. If a street sweeper had a hopper attached to collect the street sweepings it was classed as a road vehicle and subject to the tax. Since then it has been reclassified as road plant and exempted from the tax. 1 congratulate the Minister for taking this action and alleviating the cost to be borne by municipal councils. I think any assistance that can be given to municipal councils at the present time is welcome. The local government bodies are suffering as much as any other group in Australia from rising costs and from the pressure to provide increasing services which they have to pay for. The recent Budget announcement by the Government in handling payroll tax over to the States that local government bodies would be exempted from the payment of payroll tax was a step in the right direction by this Government, and I congratulate it for that step. 
I want to draw attention to an anomaly that still exists with mechanical street cleaning equipment. A street flusher is classed as a road vehicle, not as ro..d plant, and is therefore subject to diesel fuel tax because it carries the water that is necessary to flush the street. I atn told that in the country cities and towns in the drier areas of Australia a street flusher is - n essential piece of equipment because of t e greater dust problem in the streets in those areas. In these areas a street sweeper can create in certain circumstances a miniature type of dust storm which not only is a nuisance but can create a hazard to the stocks of goods that are held in the shops in the commercial area. By flushing the street the dust is dampened and it can be pushed into the kerb. Then the street sweeper with hopper attached can come along and remove the dust and the other things that have to be removed. 
I have been told that there are some problems in reclassifying a street flusher from a road vehicle to road plant. If this is so I would draw the attention of the Ministers present in the chamber, the Minister for Customs and Excise and in fact all Ministers to the point that all road vehicles operated by municipal councils should be exempt from diesel fuel tax. This would overcome the classification problem of street flushers as distinct from street sweepers and it would also be a positive step by this Government to help the sorely pressed financial position of local government bodies. It would not cost this Government very much, but it would be of considerable value to. local government bodies in Australia, and as such I think it deserves close attention and sympathetic consideration by the responsible Ministers. 
In the Prime Minister's statement to the House last night and in the Australian Press report of his Press conference in Honolulu, he referred to the need to strengthen our diplomatic representations to the European Economic Community in Brussels. When this matter is discussed, because of the importance of agricultural production trends in Europe to Australian agricultural market prospects, will consideration be given to the inclusion of representatives who will be able to provide early and accurate agricultural marketing intelligence on agricultural developments within the European Economic Community? 
This debate so far has been quite interesting not so much from the subject matter itself as from the attitudes that have been expressed. Opposition speakers have questioned the courage of the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  as a member of the Government, in talcing certain action. I for one congratulate him on the courage he has shown in moving this motion and enabling a debate to ensure. But I also congratulate the Government for being a tolerant, democratic and responsible Government and allowing a motion critical of the Government's performance to be moved by one of its members. Some honourable members opposite have been making statements about courage, but when one looks at their own activities this is something which seems, to be very lacking. There are few, apart from the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  who have had the courage publicly to question any of their Party's policies. Of course, the honourable member for Grayndler questioned his Party's immigration policy and he had very good reason to question it in view of some of his Party's policies which seem to be shunted around at the present time. The Opposition has also raised the point of outside influence on the Government, lt should be the last to talk about outside influence. I can remember some talk only recently, about penal sanctions and other matters relative to the arbitration system, that was immediately shut up by a very little bit of outside influence. 
It was only a passing reference because that is all it deserves. The question involved here is one of rural policy because it relates to excise duty on a product of a rural industry. The point made by the honourable member (or Angas as to what the Australian Labor Party would do if it was in Government is a very interesting point, because what some honourable members opposite say as members of the Opposition could be completely different from what they would say if the Labor Party were the Government. A statement by the leading spokesman for the Opposition on rural affairs, the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  after the Australian Labor Party conference in Launceston should make people think a little more about this matter of what the Labor Party would do or be capable of doing in regard to rural policy matters, such as the wine excise, if it were in government. 
 I do not think it is worth giving details about because the Opposition never gets down to specific matters such as the wine excise; it just waffles on. As the honourable member for Dawson has said, the majority of members of his Party are against rural affairs altogether. The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster),  who is interjecting, should look at some of the statements made by his colleagues in the Senate about too much support being given to the wool industry. 
The only support which the Opposition would give to wool would be to use it to pull over the eyes of its members. 
In deference to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  rather than anybody else, I will relate my remarks to this debate in more detail. Before doing so, I wish to make a couple of comments on the speech made by the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton).  The right honourable member did quote some of the price increases that had occurred since the excise was introduced. He referred to the mark up that took place on bottles of wine and on certain half flagons of wine. He said that it was not only the excise which had increased prices. The first point that I make on his speech is that the moment taxes are increased or an excise is imposed the possibility for retailers to increase their margins is opened up. While this may help the retailer, at the same time, it certainly does not help the grower. In this debate I would speak for the grower rather than for the retailer. The point was made that the price of half flagons increased by a certain amount. I think that, if checks are made as to what the grower who actually produces the flagon wine receives, particularly where the grower is selling at his own door or is selling to somebody else for retailing, they will reveal that he is not receiving any mark up and that the mark up occurs further along the line in retailing. 
I certainly would agree that the excise that was introduced was wrong, if for no other reason than that it was too severe. To introduce overnight an excise which will increase the price for some bulk flagon wines, leaving aside at all any mark up, by 50 per cent in an industry which is accustomed - and I think rightly accustomed - to a certain growth rate and which is planning on that growth rate, must cause dislocation in that industry. Therefore, if the Government was right in introducing the excise - I am not saying that it was - the excise should have been at a far lower rate than the severe rate which was imposed in the first instance. I know that it would be wrong to say that any industry as large and as varied as the wine industry would not have some problems of its own making and that all blame for current problems could be put on the wine excise. The plantings of superior varieties of wine grapes are certainly a factor which complicate matters in the industry. The vertical integration that has taken place within the industry to a certain extent either by marketing people buying vineyards or by winery operators becoming their own selling agents and increasing their own plantings so that they no longer buy in bulk from a co-operative or from a grower and also the possible over production with increased acreages of vines being planted in such areas as the Hunter Valley, as the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  mentioned, are factors to be considered. 
As (he honourable member for Angas pointed out, the wine industry felt that it had this situation in hand because of the growth in consumption which it had every right to expect would continue, and because of the increased advertising which it had embarked upon. I believe that the wine excise has caused several problems. Firstly, it has stopped the upward trend in wine consumption. The figures for last year showed this to be the fact. Secondly, it has damaged and dislocated the structure of the wine industry. It has dislocated the structure in the sense that that section of the industry which sells flagons has been hurt whereas other sections of the industry have not been hurt very much if at all. I refer specifically to the high price table wine section. I think that the honourable member for Angas referred to the fact that the wine excise works out at approximately 5 per cent on a bottle of table wine but up to 50 per cent on flagons. It has dislocated the structure because it has made less competitive with other forms of alcoholic beverages the cheaper forms of fortified wines such as sherries which are sold in flagons. It has dislocated the industry also because of the effect that it has had at grower level. The grower is the person least able at the present time in the industry to take some of these knocks. 
I wish to quote from an article entitled Smaller wine firms face a cash squeeze', which appeared in the 'Australian' of 22nd August 1971 and which was written by  Mr Jim  McCausland. The article reads: 
The smaller grape growers face immediate and long-range problems. Australian wine makers grow only 15 per cent of their grapes. The other 85 per cent is grown by independent and usually small companies. 
Most of the smaller grape growers, principally in South Australia, which produce 70 per cent of Australia's wine, belong to the large co-operatives, such as Berri, Renmark and Loxton, who process the grapes and market the wine. 
But because the excise tas continues and demand slackens, the co-operatives will have trouble selling the wine and will subsequently be unable to accept grapes from the small growers. 
Another dislocation caused by the wine excise has been the dangerous build-up in wine stocks. At the present time, allowing for :i 2-year holding period, 3 years wine consumption is in stock. With respect to while wines, one does noi wish to hold white wines for that period, if for any period at all. This stock is held in spite  of  a poor harvest last year. I am told by several wine growers that by the show of bunches at the present time the prospects are for a big harvest this year. This will complicate the problem because with a good harvest approaching the industry must face the inability of the wineries to take in as much wine because of the buildup in stocks at this time. 
The wine industry embarked on a most expensive advertising campaign during the summer months between November and February of 1970-71. I believe that this advertising campaign to promote white table wines cost $150,000. I think that, as the honourable member for Angas pointed out, without this advertising campaign wine consumption figures in Australia would have been lower than they are. The success of this campaign is reflected in the fact that white fable wine sales increased. The fact that they increased means that the drop in projected sales for the other types of wines was even greater than the figures show. 
What can this cause? I believe that the result of this excise can be a greater cost to the Government because more rural reconstruction will be forced on grape growers and this will cost the Government more than it will receive in income from the excise. It will cause also further complications because the quantity of sultanas used in wine making dropped from 80,000 tons in 1969-70 to 41,000 tons in 1970-71. The figures that I have quoted come from the annual report of the Australian Wine Board. The use of sultanas could drop even further this season if, as is expected, the United Kingdom enters the European Economic Community. Not only will our wine sales to the United Kingdom drop further than they have already but also o-.ir dried vine fruit sales to the United Kingdom may be expected to fall because of the associate status of several other dried fruit producing countries. 
If the sultana grape cannot be made into wine it could he forced back into dried fruit production at a time when the dried fruits industry is less and less able to accept this further intake of sultanas. I believe that this will complicate even further the situation in which increased reconstruction will be requited by some of these unfortunate growers.. This stale of affairs has been spurred on by the imposition of this excise. I hope that, in the next Budget, the Government will do something to alleviate the present position either by abolishing the excise completely or by reducing it at least to a level which will demonstrate in time that the cost to the consumer has not been increased to such an extent that the result will continue to be a reduction in consumption, because this is what has happened up to the present time with this excise. 
I heard the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  speaking about the Griffith Co-operative Ltd tonight. I do not want to get involved in any discussion about that cannery, but about a week ago a Press report of a speech made by the honourable member about the Griffith cannery mentioned that the Shepparton Preserving Co. Ltd had been given over $4m by the Federal Government - tonight he mentioned that again - and that another cannery had been given $4.5m. This is not true. The SPC has not been given any money by anybody. It was lent $4.2m by the State. An interest rate of 7 per cent is being charged on that loan. Suppliers to the SPC, particularly the pear suppliers, are having money withheld from their fruit income to repay the interest and the principal of this loan. I believe that conditions in the fruit industry are serious, but never so serious that we should depart from fact when we are discussing the situation. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of certain citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the suffering of the Pakistani refugees is such as to warrant immediate relief. 
That the amount of aid allocated for Pakistani refugee relief does not benefit Australia's standing in the world as a developed nation. 
That the state of tension between the Indian and Pakistani Governments is such as to thr eaten war. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will: 
Immediately increase aid, monetary or otherwise, for Pakistani refugee relief to the value of $10m, 
Grant as aid, on a continuing basis, a percentage of the gross national product, and 
Use every diplomatic channel possible to ease tension between the Indian and Pakistani Governments. 

 And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members  of  the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of certain citizens  of  Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the suffering of the Pakistani refugeesis such as to warrant immediate relief. 
That the amount of aid allocated for Pakistani refugee relief does not befit Australia's standing in the world as a developed nation. 
That the state of tension between the Indian and Pakistani Governments is such as to threaten war. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will (1) immediately increase aid, monetary or otherwise, for Pakistani refugee relief to the value of $10m, (2) grant as aid, on a continuing basis, a percentage of the gross national product, and (3) use every diplomatic channel possible to ease tension between the Indian, and Pakistani Governments. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That we, citizens of the Commonwealth, earnestly request our government to: 
increase, immediately, Australia's contribution to the refugee appeal by 10 million dollars. 
press for a just solution to the conflict, so that the refugees may return to their homes. 
And your petitioners, as in duty, bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
It is obvious the people of Australia are vitally concerned about the welfare of some nine million East Pakistan refugees that have crossed the border into India. Also they are equally concerned about the desperate plight of millions of displaced persons in East Pakistan, many of whom are worse off than the refugees, as they are not even receiving relief supplies. The involvement of the Aus* tralian is evidenced by their willingness to contribute substantial funds to voluntary agencies, to assist their work in these countries. 
As some twenty million refugees and displaced persons are today facing acute problems of hunger and privation - nutrition and child family problems - ultimate famine and death on an unprecedented scale - the Commonwealth Government must plan to come to their assistance in a more sacrificial way. 
Your petitioners therefore most humbly pray that in tackling these great human problems in Bengal, by far the greatest this century, the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, will request that a special meeting of Cabinet be called to provide $10m for relief purposes in India and East Pakistan, and a further $50m over three years to help rehabilitate the refugees in east Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever, pray. 
Petition received. 
Is the Minister for Education and Science aware of the development of a chemical sex attractant or pheromone which will materially assist measures to control oriental fruit moth in peach orchards, and that a similar pheromone is being tested for codlin moth control? Will the Minister ensure that priority is accorded to the relevant Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation department which is working on the development, production and testing of this pheromone so that this most important breakthrough in the control of these orchard pests can be exploited as soon as possible? 
It was not my intention to take part in this debate until certain statements were made by the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn)  which concerned the fruit growing industry generally. Particular reference was made also to certain canneries in the electorate of Murray - Shepparton Preserving Co. Ltd, Ardmona Fruit Products Coop. Co. Ltd and Kyabram Preserving Co. Ltd. The honourable member for Balaclava seemed to be of the opinion that we should class canneries as manufacturing concerns and that it should not be the policy of the Government to assist such manufacturing concerns or industries. 
He represents a party that you and 1 both well know. He failed to see the point that here we are talking about canneries and we are talking about cooperative canneries. I see no resemblance between a manufacturing company such as Massey-Ferguson Holdings (Aust.) Ltd, to which he referred, and a co-operative, because any private company has a far greater opportunity to raise finance in the ordinary financial market than has any cooperative. One of the great weaknesses or shortcomings of a co-operative is its inability to raise finance. It is one of the weaknesses of the situation here in Australia, that unlike some other countries we have not as a matter of policy provided better ways of allowing co-operatives, whether they be canning co-operatives or some other form of co-operative, to raise money or to be loaned money. An example is the Ardmona cannery which is a very financial and successful fruit cannery. At the present time it is embarking on the most ambitious project in the fruit industry in Australia to widen the market for canning fruit products, lt is a 1.5m project for fruit juice and fruit pulp. Because it is a co-operative it has had tremendous difficulty in raising this finance, even though there is no doubt about its financial viability. 
The honourable member for Balaclava made this point in reference to a firm like Massey-Ferguson which we all know is having financial difficulties, but he overlooked the point that the problem with Massey-Ferguson and many other rural companies is not a lack of finance but  a  lack of demand for their product. It is by means of measures such as the one presently before the House that demand for some of their products will be increased. The honourable member referred also to the loan of $4.2m to the Shepparton Preserving Co., the Bill for which passed through this House on 6th May. The honourable member came to the conclusion after extensive research, so he said, that somehow or other the individual grower should be receiving 59,000. He worked that out by dividing the number of growers into the S4.2m. The honourable member asked how this loan would help the grower if he was not receiving it. The point here is that a co-operative is owned by the growers who supply it, and anything that helps the co-operative helps the suppliers. This is so for a variety of reasons. One of the reasons it that it reduces interest payments on any outstanding loans and of course the purpose of these measures is to reduce these outstanding debts so that a greater percentage of the net income of the canneries can be paid to the growers in one form or another. The honourable member also overlooked the fact, when referring to Shepparton Preserving Co. Ltd and other canneries, that, as well as the growers who supply products  to  the cannery there are also, in the case of SPC for instance, over 200 permanent employees at the cannery let alone 1,200 casuals employed for much of the year. 
The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  referred to an interesting situation in regard to Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd and the canning fruit industry at the present time. The BHP is, 1 believe, protected in Australia to a far greater degree than the canned fruits industry is protected. BHP is in a monopoly position. I am not saying that that is wrong, but it is in a monopoly position. BHP is laying off quite a large number of workers while the canning fruit industry this season will have to import about 20 per cent of its tin plate requirements. 
 I know you quoted more for your canneries but for the canneries in the Goulburn Valley I understand it is about 20 per cent. Here we have an interesting situation where we supposedly have a lack of demand for steel products in Australia, and yet we have to import 20 per cent of the tin plate requirements. BHP also insists that these canneries purchase all their requirements of tin plate anything up to 4 to 5 months before the tin plate will actually be used, and the canneries have to pay cash. We have had some talk about whether the canneries or the fruit industry are receiving preferential treatment. To me these are some of the toughest and meanest terms of trade for any company in such a privileged position as the BHP to enforce on any industry. 
Also it came as a surprise to me to learn that it is a crime to want to export. We were told that because 60 per cent of the products of the canned fruit industry is for export this is really a taxpayer subsidy for consumers in other countries. That is a curious way to talk about the need for exports. Without export income all the people in the middle and upper middle class sections of our community in the great metropolises, who are in the tertiary industries which are the most highly protected Australian industries and who live very comfortably, would not be able to indulge in some of the nice little extras that our higher standard of living provide through our export industries. 
It is of interest to follow further this argument that we must be paying a subsidy for the consumers in other countries because the export market returns less than the home market. How many industries are there in Australia that do export at world parity prices, in the sense that the local market gives the same return as the export market? I can think only of the wool industry and the meat industry in this respect. BHP does not because, if I remember right, recently there was an anti-dumping case in the United States against BHP because its export prices were lower than the home market price. If we like to look at the automobile industry, I understand there is unused capacity in that industry in Australia and probably this is so in many other secondary industries in Australia. If they were exporting at a lower return than the return on the home market surely they would use the unused capacity which exists and thereby lower the cost of unit production. 
There is also the question of devaluation compensation. If it is in the best interests of Australia as a whole that Australia should not devalue in a particular case - such as in 1967 - when it is known that certain sections of the community will be disadvantaged because of the decision I believe that it is right and just for that disadvantaged section of the community to be compensated in some way, even if only in a small way, for acting in what is considered to be the best interests of the community as a whole. With regard to devaluation compensation for the canned fruits industry, this compensation was set at the 1967 level. In other words, it was set on the 1967 prices for up to 1971 costs. How many of our people in secondary and tertiary industries would like to bc still operating under those conditions? It is to the credit of the canned fruit industry that it got out of its devaluation problems virtually through its own efforts and that it no longer became eligible for devaluation compensation. 
Reference has been made also to markets. I think 2 recent developments show what the indus ry is trying to do. One is the announcement by the major Australian canneries which export our fruit that they will be setting up a joint selling organisation in the United Kingdom market in 1972. 
I agree that it is about time. This is a most important step forward for the industry and one which I hope will mean the end of any price cutting competition between the canneries on export markets, because sometimes in the past Australian canned fruit has not been competing against South African canned fruit but one Australian cannery has been competing against another Australian cannery. I think the time is now most appropriate for this joint selling organisation to be set up. 
I believe that of importance with the development with new markets is the fact that Australian canned fruit has been accepted for the Japanese school lunch programme. I believe that this is most important for the future sale of our products to this market because not only is Japan potentially a great market but, by having these products included in the school lunch programme, this means that the taste, the appetite and the liking for these products will be increased as the school children grow and become consumers in their own right. Also, if eastern Russia could be provided with the necessary exchange and perhaps freed from some of the restrictions of a centralised government form of trading, there would be a tremendous market in that area. The efforts of the Ardmona cannery with regard to pulp, juice and the development of a new produce - dried pears which, I am pleased to say, the Minister for Prim ary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  took with him on his recent overseas tour - will bear fruit in the future. I believe that tonight we should not be thinking of the Government coming in as a lender of last resort to assist co-operatives which are in trouble but we should be thinking of a definite Government policy to give greater assistance as an ordinary measure to the cooperatives, which are so important to the country's future 
Mir SINCLAIR (New England - Minister for Primary Industry) (11.28)  -  I compliment the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  for an excellent exposition of some of the problems of the canning industry. 1 also compliment other members who, during the course of the debate, have canvassed not only the present but the future difficulties that the industry faces. It is true that, of all Australian primary industries, this industry will be the most adversely affected, at least in the short term, by changed market prospects. I do not intend to go into tha!. The reasons have been canvassed, the entry of Britain into the European Economic Community being the most notable. There are prospects in Asia. But it is hard to take a decision at this stage to remove completely from producing the pears, the peaches and the other fruits that go into canning those growers who have depended on the industry for their livelihood when there is a prospect that in a few years time there might well be a good market opportunity. Not just the growers in this decentralised industry, but the people in the nearby country towns represent a substantial percentage of employment in many areas. It is difficult in determining short term assistance to know what is the most effective way of providing help. 
The 2 Bills which are the subject of this cognate debate are the product of an inquiry instituted by officers of my Department into the best way to try to help these canneries in the short term. There are difficulties in determining just what is the best form of long-term assistance. The industry itself is represented on a group known as the Canned Deciduous Fruits Industry Advisory Committee which is looking into possible programme for tree pulling and possible programmes for other forms of reconstruction systems. These, of course, are essential but the industry itself has not been idle and the measures to which the honourable member for Murray has referred are the product of a recognition by the industry - in some instances belated - that it cannot rest on marketing methods which today are antiquated in circumstances which are changing. Unless the industry faces these circumstances they are likely to lead to even fewer profits for the canners as well as for the growers in the future. 
These measures represent a short term form of assistance to tide the industry over this period of adjustment. Indeed, there are problems in working out the best way in which the assistance can be provided. It is because of the necessity of providing some flexibility that the schedule of the agreement between the States and the Commonwealth has not been included in either Bill, lt is for that reason that I. have difficulty in accepting the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  Essentially there is an intention in each of the advances that they should be loans. One would hope that they would not be perhaps at a commercial rate of interest but aspiring towards at least long-term bond interest rates. In each instance the administration of the loans is to be by the State governments. I would see the initial responsibility in this field as being with the State governments. 
The industries are certainly important in particular areas but they are not of major national significance in the sense that the wool industry, wheat industry and some other major primary industries are of national significance, and it is for that reason that I see the initial responsibility in the whole field of canned fruits predominantly with the State governments. On that basis, while consideration has been given to the Mountain Maid cannery, to which the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt)  referred, assistance has not been forthcoming from the Commonwealth Government. Close and careful scrutiny was given to applications by the State governments for supplementary assistance for other canneries and it was on the basis of the recommendations of a technical committee, not on a political decision, that these Bills were introduced. 
I stress again that the reason for the non-inclusion of the agreement is not that it is intended in any way to hide from the Parliament the way in which the Govern ment intends to administer these funds. It is intended by the provision of the loans - as to which there are maximum specified in the Bills - not to the canneries but to the States, which shall administer them, that there should be a flexibility which will enable the negotiation of the most favourable terms in any repayments by the States to the Commonwealth of these advances. It is true that there has been correspondence between myself and the respective administering States. In this correspondence we have canvassed the sort of terms we hope might be realised, but it is accepted also that there is a critical short-term problem for these industries and the critical short-term problem is such that we cannot at this moment finitely set down the terms and conditions without almost negating the value of the assistance. 
The purpose of the financial assistance is to reduce the measure of the indebtedness of these canneries. The purpose is to enable these canneries to operate on a basis which will enable growers to be paid. The purpose is to try to help them in this short-term problem while other forms of adjustment of a longer term character are being adopted and being developed in the total sense. So the purpose of this particular legislation is to try to tide the canneries over until such time as there can be a more realistic long-term approach. I believe that were we to include an agreement in these Bills it would almost deny the advantages of the assistance that, as so many members from both sides have said, these canneries so urgently need. 
Finally I say to the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn)  that I do not regard the nature of this assistance as being specifically for manufacturing industries. It is true that canneries are significant units of manufacture. They are there as the secondary process of a primary product. But it is true that the growers in these industries would not be paid. As the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  so rightly said a moment ago, the growers themselves would have no market whatsoever for their product if it were not for the existence of the canneries and it is this problem which has generated the recommendation from the technical committee that this is the best form of short term assistance that can be provided, lt will enable the growers to remain on their holdings and to carry on and produce their fruit. Of course, the fruit tree does not just go out of bearing because the financial circumstance of the cannery might be a little low at the time. The trees keep on bearing and the only way in which the communities which are dependent upon the production of canned fruits can be kept alive is by the provision of this form of financial assistance. 
I do not regard this as an alternative to tariff assistance or to other forms of assistance to secondary industry. I regard the measures of assistance that are being provided to these canneries as being essentially to preserve the opportunity of production which considerable numbers of primary producers rely on in the areas that are producing for the respective canneries referred to in the 2 Bills. It is true that there are other areas and other canneries. There are real difficulties in the future in the marketing and in the manner of marketing and these cannot be ignored. Indeed, I have spoken in this House in reply to questions and on other occasions about the extent to which this industry, along with some others, will need to make a quite critical examination of the basis of their present operationsif they are to continue to survive. I believe that this industry is one which is responsibly looking at its marketing methods and, of course, in conjunction with the Government, it is endeavouring to devise the best long term forms of assistance which might offset these longer term problems. I therefore commend the Bills to the House in the form in which they have been submitted and without the amendment that has been proposed by the honourable member for Dawson. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Dr  Patterson's amendment) stand part of the question. 
I present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of certain citizen; of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the suffering of the Pakistani refugees is such as to warrant immediate relief. 
That the amount of aid allocated for Pakistani refugee relief does not befit Australia's standing in the world as a developed nation. 
That the state of tension between the Indian and Pakistani Governments is such as to threaten war. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will: 
immediately increase aid, monetary or otherwise, for Pakistani refugee relief to the value of $10m, 
grant as aid, on a continuing basis, a percentage of the gross national product, and 
use every diplomatic channel possible to case tension between the Indian and Pakistani Governments. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable ;he  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of certain citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the suffering of the Pakistani refugees is such as to warrant immediate relief. 
That the amount of aid allocated for Pakistani refugee relief does not befit Australia's standing in the world as a developed nation. 
That the s:ate of tension between the Indian and Pakistani Governments is such as to threaten war. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will 
immediately increase aid, monetary or otherwise, for Pakistani refugee relief to the value of $10 million, 
grant as aid, on a continuing basis, a percentage of the gross national product, and 
use every diplomatic channel possible to ease tension between the Indian and Pakistani Governments. 
And your petitioners as, in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
.1 congratulate the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  for the charity that he has shown in putting up for as long as he did with the speech of the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  While the honourable member for Mallee was speaking the honourable member for Riverina took several spurious points of order as to whether the honourable member was debating the motion or the amendment. I fail to remember any real point in the speech of the honourable member for Riverina that was on this subject at all.  His  speech certainly had nothing to do with the motion or the statement delivered by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  which is what we are really debating. It would appear to me that Opposition members are acting like a Jot of spoilt children who have just had their ice creams taken away from them. This subject was to be their calamity howler when they returned home at Christmas time, so that they could really spread the muck around the country areas. 
The Prime Minister came in and made this statement- 
The Prime Minister came in and presented this most welcome and timely announcement which has been very well received right throughout Australia and has taken from Opposition members their opportunity to create this nice little calamity situation. We have all heard the term 'Calamity Jane'. I could suggest an alternative, but I will not, with respect to the way in which the honourable member for Riverina spoke this afternoon. It would appear, if we listened -to honourable members opposite, that somehow or other they initiated this action. They have had nothing to do with it. The Prime Minister presented this statement. The debate this afternoon is a result of definite Government policy. To show how ill prepared Opposition members are really to grapple with this situation, one has only to listen to the absurd statements that have been made and that have nothing to do with the ministerial statement and the motion. The amendment certainly has nothing to do with the situation. 
I wish now to look in detail at some of the points mentioned in the amendment moved by the Australian Labor Party, which is supposed to have some knowledge of the situation. The amendment:   . . urges  the  Government to initiate immediate discussions with the States so that the first grants under this programme can be made before Christmas. ... 
Do not members of the Opposition read their newspapers? Cannot what they are told sink into their heads? They have been told several times that the discussions on this matter were held yesterday. Representatives of each of the States were here yesterday to discuss this situation. I understand that the Prime Minister has written to each State Premier setting out definitely ways in which this programme can bc commenced before Christmas. No need exists for any legislative machinery to lie established before this programme can commence. 
Anyone who reads in detail the statement which has been made by the Prime Minister will see that the programme and the whole system used in respect of drought relief measures throughout the States some years ago will be followed here. The same principles and procedure will be adopted. One has only to look at the procedures that were used during that drought relief programme to see how the present programme can be initiated and commenced immediately. For example this means that in Victoria an interdepartmental committee will co-ordinate these grants and work out which local government, which State government and which semigovernment authorities can spend this money in the most useful way in the areas where it is most needed. This work can be commenced immediately. 
That is up to the States. The Commonwealth has the whole scheme under way now. There is no reason why, from the Commonwealth's point of view, this programme cannot commence before Christmas. There is no need to wait for any legislation to be introduced in February. If Opposition members only bothered to read the Prime Minister's statement, the newspapers and the reports of the procedures to be followed, this amendment would have been unnecessary. 
In another part, the amendment urges the Government to:   . . confer with the Stales to ensure she resumption of the rural reconstruction scheme now hailed by lack of finance in  the  various Slates. 
This part of the amendment is most curious. In speaking to this amendment, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  gave the reasons why it is alleged that not sufficient finance has been provided under the rural reconstruction scheme for the debt reconstruction programme. Yet. a week ago, when the Bill providing for the loan of S30m to the Australian Wool Commission was being debated, the proposal was criticised by the Opposition for the same reason that it has now incorporated in its amendment to support its case. The money that is being provided through the Australian Wool Commission will alleviate the need for much of the debt reconstruction programme. Surely it is better to alleviate the problems so that huge amounts of funds are not spent on debt reconstruction. This has been done in rural areas through the buying policy of the Australian Wool Commission and the wool deficiency payments scheme. Payments which would have been necessary under the debt reconstruction scheme have been avoided. Last week the Labor Party in criticising this Government initiative for the wool growers said that- 
That is right. The Opposition argues that some of the money will go to the brokers, that it will not stay in the electorates. Now, I make 2 points on this argument: What difference is there between that proposal and the Opposition's amendment which seeks more money for debt reconstruction? If a debt is to be reconstructed, somebody has to be paid off. That 'somebody' is still the same bodies - the banks and the finance companies - that the Opposition criticised one week ago. If one is at all close to the country people and the problem of debt reconstruction one may bc aware of the fact that if we can lower the level of debt payments made by a farmer, whether in respect of wool or in any other way, we will be helping him because a lesser percentage of his net income will be required to service his debts. 
When Opposition members were offering criticism and making their point about rural reconstruction they were talking about the farmers. Surely the whole purpose of this grant of $2m a month, approximately, is not to help the farming people alone but to help all people in rural areas, cities and towns who may have been affected by the rural crisis because of the drop in purchasing power of farming people. Yet the Labor Party criticised several times the rural reconstruction scheme because it is for farmers only. Here we have something which is for people other than farmers and all they can do is turn around, reverse their tired old argument and say it is wrong because it is for people other than farmers. The Opposition has also mentioned that it would do this and do that. If the Opposition had its way it would cut off these grants designed to assist the many people who work in country cities and towns. 
The honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  should read his Party's amendment. It is clear that the Opposition wants to give all the assistance to the farming community. We on this side of the House reprepresent all rural people. 
It has also been stated that this money is not enough. If honourable members opposite read the Prime Minister's statement they will see that it is an approximate amount. It is flexible and it can be increased if necessary. If the Government listened toall the statements of the Labor Party that not enough money has been provided for certain projects, and if it were to finance what the Opposition said it would do, the biggest industry in this country would be the money printing industry because of all that would be needed to finance the Opposition's schemes. Honourable members want to look at these matters a little more objectively, decide on their priorities and how they would implement their proposals. It has also been suggested that the allocation of 75 per cent of this money to labour costs and 25 per cent for materials is wrong. This is the same arrangement that was adopted for the drought relief programmes which have proved most successful. 
If we are to employ people we have to employ them gainfully so that what they do is worthwhile, not only for them but also for the community. And, of course, we will need materials. If the States believe that 75 per cent of the grant is not sufficient to meet the labour costs it is open to the States to provide the materials and to allocate 100 per cent of the funds to the employment of labour. But there is another factor here. It has been stated that this grant will not cover the employment of everybody in the country who is unemployed. This is agreed but the point is that the amount is flexible and can be increased. One of the things needed in country cities and towns and business areas is a boost of confidence and this grant provides just the boost of confidence that is needed. 
The people of Australia have shown for 22 years that they do not share your point of view. The Opposition's amendment states that we should be looking also to provide employment assistance in metropolitan areas. This -would mean that there would be less of the $2m  a  month for the benefit of the people in rural areas. We have 2 types of unemployment; we have metropolitan unemployment which is certainly growing much more rap idly now, but it is not of the same nature orproportion as it is in rural areas where there is large long-term hard-core unemployment brought about by the structural changes in the rural community which have been caused by the crisis in rural industries. In New South Wales the October unemployment figures show that 43 per cent of those registered as unemployed were in metropolitan areas and 56 per cent were in country areas. There is an even more startling figure in Queensland where 35 per cent of unemployed are in metropolitan areas and 64 per cent in nonmetropolitan areas. I think honourable members would find that the number of job vacancies is 3 times as high in the metropolitan areas as it is in the nonmetropolitan areas. This grant of $2m a month will give a much needed shot in the arm to employment and confidence in country cities and towns. It is a step in the right direction which has been initiated by the Government, and the Opposition has had nothing to do with it at all. It will do many good things. 
I would like to make a few points in conclusion. If we are to continue to spur employment in non-metropolitan areas we need a lead at Commonwealth level in the provision of more long-term and definite proposals to assist decentralisation, regional development or whatever we like to call it. The last thing we want is another committee. We have had committees dealing with these matters for 7 years and we have all the knowledge we need on the question of what is required to spur, with incentives, manufacturing and other industry in country towns. I urge the Government to continue with this good work that it has started so that we will have very soon a policy from the Government that will provide real incentives, real initiatives and real longterm proposals to assist regional development. This would be to the benefit of both those who live in urban Australia and those who live in non-urban Australia about whom we are now talking: 
-It is easy to see how the dairy farmers of Australia get confused when one listens to this debate tonight with its contradictory array of facts and figures. Some of the facts are no doubt up to date and we know that some of the facts are at least 12 months or 2 years out of date. And it could be said that some of the figures were never fact but pure fancy. Basically it has been a constructive debate; at least it was until the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  started speaking, and then it became a diatribe which bore little relation to the fact. T was pleased to hear the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie),  the next  speaker  from the other side of the House, make a constructive speech. One of the points in the speech of the honourable member for Riverina, was an accusation about selling the dairying industry short. He said Government policy was responsible for driving people out of the industry and this sort of thing and creating a lack of confidence in Australian dairy farmers. 1 have never heard this from the Government, but one person who I know has said it and made more damaging statements about the dairying industry in Australia than anybody else is the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke.  He has said on more than one occasion - he said it in New Zealand before Christmas - that in his view Australia should be importing butter from New Zealand. 1 can remember attending a conference of the Australian Agricultural Economic Society in Melbourne in 1970 at which he was one of the speakers. He then advocated the phasing out of the Australian dairying industry so that all our dairy products could be brought in from New Zealand. I have not heard the 
Australian Labor Party dissociate itself  from  any of  Mr Hawke's  statements and I would be very interested to hear its attitude on this latest statement. As for anybody on the other side of the House accusing the Government  of  denigrating the dairy industry and destroying its confidence, I would have thought that the man who has done most in this regard is their own shining star,  Mr Hawke. 
Another statement made by the honourable member for Riverina was that the Government had rejected the idea  of a  cheese bureau. If the honourable member had bothered to get a little closer to the dairy industry to find out what was going on he would know that the cheese bureau proposal has not yet reached the Government. It is still being discussed at the Australian Dairy Industry Council level. He also stated that we could not supply our recombining plants in South East Asia at the present time and that we were terribly short and had to do this and that. I would not dispute the fact that there is an attempt to obtain small amounts of supplies from other countries, but the major reason why the  Australian  Dairy Produce Board has had to do this is that several Australian dairy manufacturing companies have reneged on undertaking they gave to the Board to supply these plants. It is  not  in the best interests of the dairy industry to have factories, for their very short-term advantage, by-passing a ' new project or a series of projects that have been of tremendous value to the Australian dairying industry. It cannot be said that this  skim  milk powder would have been sold at low prices. As I understand the prices for  skim  milk powder at the present time, the home price basically is about $325 a ton. The reconstitution plants were offering S362 a ton and the general 12 month average export trader to trader price for skim milk powder is $316 per ton. So it cannot be said that there was any form of giveaway or subsidy to these recombing plants. 
It has been mentioned tonight that the profit ability of the recombining plants at present is not very high. The counterpoint of this is that the higher prices they have had to pay for dairy materials have meant greater profits for the Australian dairy farmer who has obtained these higher prices for his products. So it cannot be said to be any loss to the Australian dairy industry. The benefit is going to a different section of the industry, the supplier - the dairy farmer himself - perhaps a little quicker. The honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  seems to think that the dairy products stock pile never existed in Europe. This is a very curious understanding of the position because I have in front of me a publication entitled Dairy Notes', the latest issue, put out by the Department of Primary Industry and a table based on agri-Europe which is accepted as an authoritative account of agricultural marketing statistics in Europe, lt gives these figures: The butter stock pile at the end of 1968 was 330,000 tons, at the end of 1969 336,000 tons, at the end of 1970 160,000 tons and at the end of 1971 130,000 tons. We know that in the last 2 weeks the figure has increased - that is, to the end of January or mid-February - to about 190,000 tons, and dumped sales of butter have been recommended by the European Economic Community. If the stockpile never existed why is it that European countries were selling or dumping butter in South East Asia and on other markets at virtually give-away prices which brought the price for our exports of dairy products down to the very low figures that obtained in the late 1960s. I find it hard to believe that the EEC would have spent millions of dollars in South East Asia - virtually giving this product away if that stockpile had not existed. 
It is always easy to be wise after the event but it is a credit at least to the dairying industry in Australia that the voluntary restrictions which were sought in 3 States. Victoria, Tasmania and South Australia. 2 seasons ago, were lifted within 3 months. I happened to be dairying at the time and 'the calves we were running on 3 J per cent of our cows were booted out. We put the cows back into the herd and our total production did not alter that year. But in other countries in that year there were far more severe restrictions. The EEC undertook cow slaughter and milk diversion and in Australia and Switzerland there were similar projects. In New Zealand there were far more definite attempts to move people away from dairying than there were in Australia. 
I refer now to a matter that was before the Australian Agricultural Council. A special committee of senior departmental officials has been set up since the last Council meeting to consider the next 5-year plan and, in particular, the 2-price mechanism. The 2-price mechanism will not be a restriction on production as such. It will be up to the individual producer to decide whether he can produce at the second price, on which there will be no quantitative restriction. I was pleased to read the Press Statement from the Agricultural Council released by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  It reads: 

 Mr Sinclair said that there was general agreement that the immediate implementation of the quota proposals was not necessary until market circumstances changed. The Australian Agricultural Council agreed to accept in principle the necessity to plan for a flexible scheme of production control which could be applied when necessary. 

 Mr C. Chandler, Victorian Minister for Agriculture, indicated that the Victorian Government would agree to the operation of a scheme which would enable the industry to reduce production temporarily if this became necessary to meet reduced export markets.  1 would remind the Minister that I represent the area in which there is probably the greatest expansion and potential expansion of dairying in Australia. I agree that it is wise to have a scheme ready if things do go badly for the industry in future. We must have a scheme. From what I can see so far, the scheme that is evolving is equitable for all dairy farmers in Australia, including those in Victoria. The 2-price mechanism will be introduced only when necessary. I was very pleased to see the Minister's statement to this effect after the Agricultural Council meeting. 
I agree with the honourable member for Braddon who congratulated the Australian Dairy Produce Board on its development of the dairy market in Japan. Japan is one of the great growth markets for dairy products. The growth of the market there is one of the success stories for the Dairy Produce Board and for certain dairy factories. Combined with this market is the fact that cheese is the dairy industry's growth product. Cheese is one of the few products the consumption of which will increase as the standard of living increases. There is a world-wide increase in the consumption of cheese at present, lt is expected that the consumption of cheese in Japan will double in the next 10 years. Australia has the lion's share of the export market in Japan; slightly under one-third of Japan's cheese imports come from Australia. At the moment the imports are divided evenly between gouda and cheddar. The Australian Dairy Produce Board is to be congratulated for getting in on the Japanese school lunch programme some years ago and for promoting the taste for cheese and the taste for Australian cheese. 
At present the Girgarre Cheese Company Pty Ltd, which is in my electorate, is the major supplier of Gouda cheese to Japan. The recent announcement by the MurrayGoulburn Co-operative, which also is in my electorate, of a $3m joint venture with Snow brand dairy products of Japan, the largest dairy company in Japan, and Mitsubishi to produce in a joint venture programme 5,000 tons of Gouda cheese a year for the Japanese market is very welcome news.. It is welcome news because cheese is the one product for which in the : future we can be sure of export markets. Also we have increased sales' of butter to Japan. At the risk of labouring the point, another factory in the electorate, at Tatura, has been the substantial seller of butter to Japan. - 1 repeat that cheese is the industry's growth product. Whereas previously I may have criticised dairy factory managers for taking the short-term view with regard to the skim milk powder supply to recombining plants, it is heartening to see a number of factories taking the long term view on dairying and putting time, money and effort into diversifying their dairy products, particularly cheese. At the moment it is more profitable for a dairy factory to produce skim milk powder and butter than to produce cheese, but it is good to see that more factories are manufacturing specialty cheeses. Certainly there is room for this in our home market. There is certainly room for a product of a more consistent quality than we have at the present time. The honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate)  spoke earlier about cheese. This is a subject about which he knows a great deal. But some of the figures of cheese imports that he gave are hopelessly out of date. He was talking about a situation which existed about 12 months ago. Since the end of 1970 anti-dumping duties have been imposed on the import of non-cheddar cheeses. These have reduced the amount of noncheddar cheese coming into this country. 
In 1969-70 cheese imports were" 6,574 tons. For the year 1970-71, after the antidumping duties came in about half-way through the year, cheese imports were 5,808 tons. I understand that the only significant increase in imported cheese in the last few months has been in the fetta variety. This may be of some concern to the honourable member for Macarthur. The Tariff Board report on imported cheese is awaited. The Australian Dairy Produce Board consists of 13 members: 3 representing dairy farmers, 6 representing co-operative factories, 2 representing private factories, 1 representing the employers and 1 representing the Commonwealth Government. I do not hold any sinister views of the activities of the Australian Dairy Produce Board or of its members, but I believe that- there is a case for increasing the representation of dairy farmers on that board. In .the amendment to the legislation before, us at the present time we are talking about spending dairy farmers' funds, and. it .is the Australian Dairy Produce Board that will be entrusted with the spending of those funds. In this :situation I. think it is only right that consideration be given to increasing the number of representatives of the dairy farmers, who really are the industry. 
The final point I wish to make is on the need for buffer stocks to be accepted as part of the general international trading situation, not only in dairy products but in a great number of agricultural products. We should be able to have a reasonable stockpile or buffer stock of a particular product without causing any panic. Over a period of years the grain industry has developed this method. A buffer stock is now accepted as being helpful to the industry because it can iron out the fluctuations caused by seasonal differences in different parts of the world. No doubt there are problems not only with disastrously low prices but also sometimes with high prices through a temporary short supply. We are seeing this happen with butter in the United Kingdom at the present time. 
In the grain industry this buffer stock has been developed to the stage where the European Economic Community and the United States of America have been able to get together and say that they agree to increase the stockpile of grain to help to stabilise world grain prices. I believe that the wool industry is coming to this position. It is being accepted that a wool buffer stock, up to a reasonable level, is a good thing for the industry and not a bad thing. If the Government had panicked 15 months ago on the question of taking the gamble on starting a stockpile of wool by allowing the reserve price operations of the Australian Wool Commission, Australia's wool would virtually have been given away and this country would have lost hundreds of millions of dollars. I know that it is easier and cheaper to store wool and grain than it is to store dairy products, but I believe that the advantages of a guaranteed -supply and the great importance to the future stability of international trade in dairy products make it of vital importance that the international dairy community accepts the desirability and the inevitability of some form of buffer stock or stockpile situation. 
It is here that the EEC must play a far more constructive role than it has played in the past. It holds the key to the future of world dairy trading - whether or not to produce a surplus and then dump it on world markets. Perhaps the overall base for this proposal would be an international dairy agreement. I cannot commend too strongly the efforts of our present Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  in what he is trying to achieve in regard to an international dairy agreement. Some form of buffer stock situation and agreement amongst international dairy traders would be part of that agreement. I support the legislation and congratulate the Dairy Produce Board and the dairy factory managers of Australia on their initiative in finding new markets in a difficult situation for the dairying industry of Australia. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Can he say whether the Australian Broadcasting Commission's programme 'This Day Tonight' is now widely regarded as a forum in which Australian Labor Party propaganda, policies and excuses are aired with increasing frequency. 
What policy does the A.B.C. follow to ensure an acceptable balance between major political parties in regard to 'This Day Tonight'. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Trade and Industry. The eastern seaboard region of Russia, because of its distance from European Russia, its proximity to Australia and its growing population is of increasing trade importance to Australia. The Minister recently stated that his Department is establishing a trade commissioner post in Moscow. Is his Department considering or will it consider the establishment of a trade commissioner post in the eastern part of Russia? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Department of Primary Industry been informed of a proposal to enlarge the cheese promotion activities of the Australian Dairy Produce Board through the establishment of an Australian cheese bureau within the structure of the Board? If so, has the staff of the Department of Primary Industry been able to assess the proposal and reach any conclusions or recommendations? If not, would the Department study the proposal and the general question of increased production of cheeses of all types for the Austraiian public, improved quality control in the cheese industry and improved marketing of these cheese varieties so that the potential of the local market can be fully exploited? 
Has the Minister for Primary Industry seen newspaper reports and advertisements inserted by margarine interests in Victoria suggesting that table margarine would soon be in short supply in that State? If this is so, is it because of table margarine quotas or because vegetable oil producers can obtain higher prices for their products on the export market than margarine interests in Australia are prepared to pay? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprovable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are. made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I address a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. The Minister is aware of the serious position facing many canning fruit growers in the Goulburn Valley of Victoria. Is he aware that growers will have to know within the next 2 months whether there is going to be a tree pull compensation scheme available to them, because by then pruning and general planning for the following season will have to commence? Can the Minister state what progress was made with such a scheme at Monday's meeting of Commonwealth and State officers and whether sufficient progress has been achieved to enable recommendations to go forward to the Commonwealth and State governments? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry, into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be ran as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I think that the honey industry is an example of a small but valuable rural industry. Unfortunately for this industry, at a time when export prices and prospects have seldom been brighter than they are at present, production in this 1971-72 season is estimated at between 35 million lb and 38 million lb compared with 42 million lb in the previous year. Exports this season are estimated at 14 million lb to 15 million lb down on the 22 million lb exported in 1970-71. In 1970-71 the value to Australia of exports of honey was $3m but, because of the improved export prices at present, export returns will not be that much lower than they were last year. 
I believe that many secondary industries in Australia that are employing many more times the people engaged in honey production in Australia would be proud if they could say that they were obtaining S3m a year in export returns for Australia. If they were, they would be getting far more publicity for it than the honey industry evidently manages to obtain for its contribution to our export potential. An example of the improved export prices can be given by quoting the United Kingdom price for honey over a 3-year period. In February 1970 it was Stg130 a ton; in 1971 it was Stg155 a ton and in February of this year the price was Stg215 a ton. 
As has been mentioned previously, the United Kingdom, Japan and West Germany are our best export markets. Fortunately this is one rural industry which it does not appear will be affected when the United Kingdom joins the European Economic Community because Europe is a large importer of honey and does not have a honey industry of its own to protect by means of high intervention prices and similar sorts of devices. From time to time some primary producers express doubts about the value of producer marketing boards. I understand this complaint has been mentioned in relation to the Honey Board. But primary producers of any commodity should think seriously of the consequences of their action before they voluntarily relinquish the stability that is obtained from a marketing board. Even a board such as the Honey Board with its limited powers, basically of controlling minimum prices on export markets and agency arrangements, etc., fulfils a very valuable function in preventing price cutting between the various exporters of a particular product. 1 can remember rather vividly importers in other countries playing off the various exporters of canned fruits from Australia and thereby causing unnecessary price cutting. We are. now establishing, or have established a single marketing authority or organisation in the United Kingdom and one is in the process of being developed for Japan. 
Dairying is another industry which I hope has learned its lesson from the price cutting that went on some years asp with our skimmed milk powder exports to various countries. I repeat that a producer marketing board fulfils a very valuable function, even if its major function is to regulate minimum export prices for a particular product. Another advantage that a board provides, I believe, is that it is, itself, a central or regulatory body through which Commonwealth assistance can be channelled when necessary to assist its industry. I understand that the honey industry, through the Honey Board, does receive on a 50-50 basis finance for overseas promotion and research. 
I understand that the amendments to the Act will allow alterations to the manner in which the beekeeper representatives or the apiarists representatives are elected to the Honey Board. As I understand the position, the changed manner of election should overcome the problems associated with selecting the best people from those States that are entitled to have a representative on the Board. It has been stated that to be eligible to take part in the poll of growers an apiarist will have to have a minimum of 200 hives. This would mean that only about 13 per cent of the growers would be eligible. But they produce about 83 per cent of Australian honey. I think that the degree of part time operations in the honey industry is highlighted, when such a small percentage of growers produces such a large percentage of the total product. The minimum requirement does appear to be high in relation to poll requirements in other primary industries for such things as referendums, elections to marketing boards and so on. But that is what is in the Bill. As other speakers have said, if in due course it is considered that it is not in the best interests of the industry to have this level of eligibility it should be looked at then. I support the bill. 
I address a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. I know that the Minister is aware of the serious position facing many fruit growers in northern Victoria. I ask: Is he aware of the urgency of announcing the principles of a tree pull compensation scheme so that growers can plan their future with some certainty? Will the Minister inform the House what progress was achieved with the implementation of such a scheme for the canning fruit industry at last Thursday's meeting of Federal and State officers in Canberra? 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What revenue was obtained by his Department from (a) television and (b) radio licence fees in each of the last 3 years. 
What was the cost to his Department  of  collecting this revenue in each of those years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Animal Production Committee of the Standing Committee on Agriculture appointed an expert panel to investigate what exotic breeds of sheep and goats should be of value to Australia. 
Is  a  similar study being made of certain tropical and non-tropical breeds of cattle that would be of value to Australia and which are not at present in Australia. 
If certain exotic breeds of sheep, goats and cattle are considered to be of value to Australia, will a maximum security quarantine station be required to permit their entry. 
Is a study being made of the desirability and feasibility of a maximum security quarantine station and diagnostic laboratory for Australia. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Army. Why does the Army want to enlarge the Puckapunyal Army camp? What stage have negotiations reached with the Government of Victoria and private landholders for this enlargement? Will the Minister assure the House that generous compensation will be paid to any landholders whose land has been or will be compulsorily acquired? 
Some speakers tonight seem to be most proud to mention where they come from. I think that the important point is where they live now and whom they represent now. Not one member of the Australian Labor Party sitting in this House was a farmer before entering the House. So, what gall they have to talk about rural representation. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  referred to electoral matters and how the policy of the Australian Labor Party on this matter would help the farmer. The country people of Australia should realise very clearly what the electoral policy of the Australian Labor Party, as espoused by that gentleman, is. That policy would mean a gerrymander of a gigantic order which would result in a reduction by one third of the seats in rural areas and a similar increase in seats in inner city areas. This would be achieved by basing electorates on the principle of numbers in electorates rather than voters in electorates. It is better for rural people to have some kind of representation - even if that representation is by members of the Australian Labor Party - than to have no representation at all. The policy of the ALP is very clear; one-third of all rural seats in Australia would be lost under a Labor Party redistribution. 
The honourable member for Grayndler spoke also with some pride of Labor's record when it was in Government. But he forgot to mention that when the Labor 
Party was in power wheat was being sold to New Zealand for 5s 3d a bushel when the export price for wheat on the free market was approximately double that figure. The honourable member for Grayndler seemed to be most keen to quote, from the booklet that he used, matters in relation to wheat growers in Victoria. At that time wheat growers in Victoria were so proud of their Labor government that they held monster protest meetings all over Victoria. A 'tremendous swing against the Labor Party occurred at the next Federal election and the present Government came into office. One of the first and best things that my predecessor,  Sir John  McEwen, ever did for people in the country was to sack the  Chairman  of the Australian Wheat Board who, under the Labor Government, had tried to sell the birthright of the wheat growers of this country. 
The honourable member for Grayndler mentioned also a number of other things that the Labor Government had done. But he forgot to mention the matter of petrol rationing. Fuel is a most important commodity for people in country areas. Because of the insistence of the previous Labor Government on its policy of petrol rationing, country people were in dire difficulties in trying to obtain sufficient petrol for their needs. It is interesting to note that only 2 days ago in this House the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  recommended that the price of crude oil in Australia should be increased. I am sure that country people will love to hear that. They will be glad to know that, under a Labor government, the price that they will be required to pay for petrol will rise greatly because of the desire of the Labor Party to increase the price of crude oil in this country. 
The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  commented that nothing had been done by the present Government to assist horticulture. The honourable member is supposed to represent a horticultural electorate, to a certain extent, but obviously he is completely ignorant of the long and detailed discussions which have been going on with the horticultural industries about their requirement to form a part of, or an addendum to. this reconstruction plan. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  is present in the House. I hope that an announcement will be made by him in the very near future on the position of horticulture in this reconstruction scheme. The Minister, in his statement which we are debating, mentioned horticulture. Obviously the honourable member for Riverina has not even bothered to read the Minister's statement. In his statement, the Minister said: 
In the course of the discussions of rural reconstruction Ministers referred to the allied problem of rural credit generally and also the particular difficulties being faced by our horticultural industries outside the context of restructuring of individual farms. 
The honourable member for Riverina also mentioned the plight of merino studs. Yet this is the same gentleman who had the gall earlier to say that the embargo on the export of merino rams should not be lifted. If one single act could help the merino studs of Australia it would be the granting to them of permission to export rams to other countries so that they might obtain wider sales for their stock. 
The honourable member for Riverina referred to the McMahon doctrine, but I think people in country areas would be far more interested to learn about the Whitlam doctrine. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  is a man who hardly ever ventures into country areas but who, in 1965, said that far too much money was being spent in the country. That was a statement made 7 years ago. My friend, the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  represents, among other places in his electorate, the town of Dirranbandi. The Leader of the Opposition ventured forth to that town some weeks ago. As a result of a statement made there by the Leader of the Opposition, to the effect that as so many people live in the cities we could not really spend any money in the country, the honourable member for Maranoa is now more assured than ever of a record majority at the next Federal election. I think that it is the responsibility of those who represent country people to assist in spreading these interesting facts about the views of the Leader of the Opposition about the people who live in our countryside. 
The honourable member for Dawson made a rather interesting but most contradictory statement. He said that it was the policy of the Labor Party to adjust farm production to meet international demand. 
He also said in condemnation of the Government that thousands of farmers had been forced to leave their farms. Now, if it is the policy of the Labor Party to introduce regulations to adjust farm production as it sees fit to meet what it considers to be international demand, surely this more than any other single act would force thousands of farmers to leave their land without any form of justice at all. 
In support of his argument, the honourable member for Dawson said that we should take more notice of expert reports. He mentioned the report of the McCarthy Committee which investigated the dairying industry. One of the major recommendations of the McCarthy report was that the dairying industry subsidy should be phased out over a period of 5 years. I put squarely to the Labor Party this question: Does this mean that the Labor Party does not believe in any form of assistance for the dairying industry? Where does the Labor Party stand on support for the dairying industry if, in its view, the report of the McCarthy Committee which suggests that the dairying subsidy should be cut out is such a wonderful document whose recommendations should be followed? 
But the honourable member agrees that it said that the subsidy should be cut out. That is the point. Also, when it was proposed that a wool subsidy should be introduced, it was the present Opposition which said that a means test should be applied. If honourable members opposite, including the 2 honourable gentlemen sitting on the front bench who represent sugar electorates are to be consistent, will they stand here and say that that principle should be applied to sugar producers as well? They were being most virtuous, they thought, in saying that a means test should be applied to wool growers. 
Members of the Labor Party mentioned also that this rural reconstruction plan was introduced too late. Some said that it was introduced 20 years too late. It is rather coincidental that, 20 years ago, Australia was experiencing the Korean wool boom. Surely honourable members opposite would not suggest seriously - although some of them seem to be serious about this matter - that rural reconstruction should have been introduced during the Korean wool boom. I think that the Labor Party is doing less than justice to the farmers of Australia because, to their credit, the ability of our farmers to be flexible, adaptable and to diversify has meant that they have been able to carry on far longer than farmers in any other advanced agricultural country without the need for the support provided by the measure which is being introduced now. The statement made by the Minister as a result of the review of the rural reconstruction scheme is a most encouraging document. It points to the fact that some of the anomalies that were present in the scheme have been corrected. It points to the flexibility of the scheme. In his statement the Minister said: 
It appears probable that different circumstances from State to State will make it inappropriate to achieve an exact SO per cent of farm build-up to total assistance in each State. However, it is an understanding that, provided the States encourage farm build-up applications to the maximum extent possible and approve all cases which are assessed as viable, this will be accepted by the Commonwealth as the closest compliance with the general objective that is practicable. 
It has been said in this debate that somehow or other we should adhere to the mathematical 50-50 split between debt adjustment and farm build-up, but some people forget that at the same time as the rural reconstruction legislation was introduced the charter of the Commonwealth Development Bank was enlarged and money provided so that that Bank could lend for farm build-up purposes. So in addition to the rural reconstruction scheme we have another agency helping with the farm build-up problem. That is another reason why I believe that there is no need to adhere to a 50-50 differential between debt adjustment and farm build-up. If it turns out to be 60 per cent for debt adjustment and 40 per cent for farm buildup, I do not see anything wrong with that. But more than anything else, the statement by the Minister has provided a sound basis for planning for all the States. The States know that they have approximately $60m to spread over all the applications that they now have. This has given them confidence so that they can plan securely and surely for the future without fear of immediately running out of funds, and they can make the best possible decisions for the people concerned. 
To conclude let me return to 2 points made in the statement. I refer to the problem of the horticultural industries and the urgent need for something to be done for these industries. They are part of the agricultural scene as well and if we accept in principle - so everybody here tonight seems to accept the principle - that we should have a scheme such as this, they, as much as anybody else, because of the problems they are facing, deserve to be included in the scheme. Then there is the question of rural credit to which quite a few honourable members on both sides of the House have referred. I commend those honourable members who have mentioned this matter. If we are to plan for a viable future for farmers we must provide rescue operations such as this. Farmers must have credit available over a long term. Because of the nature of farming, a farmer does not receive a quick return on his investment. He has to be able to plan ahead and he has to be able to service his commitments. It is not very creditable that this is possibly the last country of the advanced agricultural countries of the western world which has not provided some form of long term rural credit institution. I congratulate the Minister for what he has achieved for rural reconstruction, as is so evident in bis statement which is before the House. 
asked the Minister for Educa  tion and Science, upon notice: 
Can he say what percentage salary increases have been granted to the various classifications of (a) secondary school (b) primary school teachers in the State of Victoria in each of the last 3 years. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Trade and Industry. Is the Minister aware that imports of small pitch precision transmission chain from West Germany, the United States of America, the United Kingdom and Japan are creating a severe problem for chain producing companies in Australia, particularly Renold Chains (Aust.) Pty Ltd, which has a decentralised factory situated at Benalla in Victoria? This industry is a significant employer of labour in an important country city. If the Minister is aware of the problem, what action is being taken by the Government? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Trade and Industry. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to recent articles in various Australian newspapers stating that the British Foreign Secretary,  Sir Alec  Douglas-Home, has written a letter to a Labor backbencher,  Mr Leslie  Huckfield. claiming that he has not received any representations from Canberra concerning the protection of Australia's interests during the transitional period of Britain's entry to the European Economic Community? Is the Minister aware that the way some of these articles are written suggests either that  Sir Alec  Douglas-Home was not aware of the criticism you had made of the apparent lack of British action to protect Australian interests or that you never made such criticism? Will you tell the House what actually happened? 
This Bill is one of 3 proposals by the Government to restrict cigarette smoking. Of the 3 I believe the educational programme is the most important and the most likely to have a beneficial effect. Even if all cigarette advertising is banned I doubt whether consumption would drop until community attitudes towards cigarette smoking change. The uniform labelling of cigarette packages also is to be commended. However, I have grave reservations about the priorities or wisdom of a government in a so-called free society enforcing such warnings on advertisements for cigarettes when there is no suggestion that possibly other more dangerous factors in the community such as alcohol, or perhaps the most dangerous of all, the motor car with all its ramifications, will be touched. Also this Bill by itself starts a dangerous precedent along the path to which there may be no end. The Bill also discriminates against radio and television and provides unnecessary assistance to newspapers which will not be similarly restricted. Unless and until the Government similarly restricts cigarette advertising in newspapers and magazines, J will continue to doubt its sincerity on this matter. The amendment moved on behalf of the Australian Labor Party compounds this inequity by seeking to ban completely the advertising of cigarettes on television and radio and not touch the other media at all. The Labor Party has stated that it will provide of-setting advertising. The only thing that it could advertise is pie in the sky. 
Within the radio and television industry there is further discrimination against country radio and television stations. This is due to the greater reliance of these stations upon cigarette advertising. Approximately twice the revenue percentage of country stations to city stations comes from this source. Consequently, country stations are more exposed to any reduction in revenue. 
At the moment several country television stations are running at a loss or, at best, are marginally profitable. The managements of these stations are fearful that because other media are not restricted there could be a loss of revenue of sufficient magnitude to end their independence. By a strange coincidence one Government policy of fostering an independent and viable country radio and television industry will be nullified by another Government policy making it impossible for it to continue other than as relay stations for metropolitan companies. If this happens we will be faced with the very interesting situation of newspaper companies, which will gain from this Bill by their control of metropolitan television stations, having to take over the ailing country television stations which are reduced to this insolvency by the same legislation. Surely the most equitable solution for both effective action that this Government can take against cigarette smoking and to neutralise any advantage between competing media is for similar restrictions 'o be placed on newspapers and magazines. 
Even if this forecast is too gloomy, such valuable community services as local news and national news on relay will be affected as these 2 items are the most expensive that country television and radio provide as services to the community. They would be the first to go. With this reduction there would be a reduction in the quality of life as well as the quality of service to people in country areas. I welcome the amendments to this legislation proposed by the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme).  I hope to comment on them at the appropriate time. But also 1 ask the Government to delay proclamation of the legislation at least until the same date as that proposed for cigarette labelling so that we can have a uniform introduction of these measures. I support the legislation. 
 I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  and I congratulate him on what I consider to be a distinct improvement in the overall wording of proposed new section 100a (1.) compared with the words contained in the amendment which had earlier been proposed, but which has now been withdrawn, by the Postmaster-General. Personally I would have preferred similar wording to that which will be required to be placed on the labels of cigarette packets and that wording is 'Warning - smoking is a health hazard'. But I am quite happy with the terms of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Isaacs. I agree also with the proposed amendment to reduce the announcement time from 5 seconds to 3 seconds because I think that this is just common sense. There will be a more succinct warning with fewer words. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The Committee is dealing only with the first amendment at this stage. 
I accept that ruling. 1 just repeat that I support the amendment. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What percentage salary increases have been granted to the various divisions of the Commonwealth Public Service hi each of the last 3 years. 
What has been the percentage increase in the (a) consumer price index (b) Australian average income, (c) national minimum wage and (d) national productivity in each of those year:,. 
 Hundreds of thousands of migrants who have made Australia their homeland since the Second World War will welcome this Government legislation. Many of these migrants have settled in the Murray electorate. In Australia as a whole, many primary and secondary industries would not have been able to achieve the degree of excellence they have achieved without the contribution of migrants. I have spoken to a number of migrants about this legislation. They have made 2 points in particular to me. One is that through the passage of this legislation and the reciprocal arrangements that will be made with other countries these migrants in Australia will be provided with a better feeling of equality and status in this country because their own homeland will have negotiated, on an equal footing, a reciprocal agreement with Australia. This is a matter of some pride and importance to them. Secondly it will provide encouragement to these migrants to become more involved in our community because they will feel more a part of it. 1 believe that this legislation also will encourage them to make a greater contribution to the Australian economy because they will feel that they have a stake in it - a stake that will not be removed if they return to their homeland. 
This legislation will operate at no great cost to the Australian taxpayer. Any cost would be more than compensated by the fact that migrants have earned this right after having earned their livelihood in Australia. This measure will provide a great measure of justice to them. Of course, this benefit will also be available to Australians by birth who decide to settle in any country with which reciprocal agreements are reached. It will be available to migrants who may not wish to return to their country of origin but who may wish to go to some other country with which we have a reciprocal agreement. 
There are 3 key requirements or points of difference in the legislation now before us and the original Bill which was introduced by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  on behalf of the Australian Labor Party on 23 rd March as well as the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition in regard to the Bill before us. The first difference is that of reciprocal agreements. I believe that it is important both to our country and to the migrants concerned thai reciprocal agreements be reached with their countries because only by reciprocity can this Government obtain the best deal for the migrants who would wish to move to another country. Also, only by way of reciprocity will the taxpayers of this country be protected against some form of double dealing. The only legal guarantee that can be provided against double payment of pensions is through reciprocal agreements. I think it is important from the taxpayers' point of view that we have reciprocal agreements. 
The impression the Labor Party would give is that Australia is the only country which requires reciprocal arrangements before allowing the payment of portable pensions. 1 would like to mention some of the countries which require reciprocity. The Research Service in the Parliamentary Library has provided this information for me. The countries are the United Kingdom, New Zealand, the United States of America, France and Yugoslavia. There are some countries which do not require reciprocity arrangements. But before jumping to the conclusion that this is necessarily a good thing from the migrant's point of view, we should look a little closer into these countries to see what form of pension scheme they provide. Most of these countries provide a contributory superannuation scheme, which means that a separate, special and additional tax has to be paid by the people of those countries before they are entitled to any of these old age or other pension benefits. If one looks at the requirements of those contributory schemes one will find that a minimum number of payments or contributions has to be made by a person before that superannuation payment or pension is available to him in another country. So we have 2 points here that really demolish the argument that there is no need for reciprocity. First of all, a person living in such a country is paying tax at a far higher rate than what he would be if he lived in this country because of special superannuation taxes. Secondly, there is a special requirement concerning time of residence because of the minimum number of contributions that has to be made before a superannuation payment or pension is available to a person in that country or the country to which he may move. 
The second difference between the 2 pieces of legislation is the requirement of citizenship. The Labor Party Bill introduced on 23rd March requires that pensions and social service benefits will be available only to citizens of Australia. This is absurd because the migrant who is most likely to take advantage of portability of pensions is that migrant who does not become a citizen of this country. This is possibly the major reason why he does not take up Australian citizenship. He has the feeling that he may wish to return to his own country and spend the rest of his days in the country of his birth. He does not become an Australian citizen for this reason. If the Labor Party Bill were enacted it would stop these people from obtaining this justice and ending their days as they so obviously wish to end them. 
The Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  threw considerable doubt on figures provided by the Leader of the Opposition on the general question of migration and so on. Just to make the point I will use the figures of the Leader of the Opposition to show the absurdity of the Labor Party's argument. I would like to quote from the speech the Leader of the Opposition made on 23rd March when introducing his Bill. He said: 
It transpires that 662,898 persons had been naturalised up to the end of the last financial year, and the number of persons who were eligible to be naturalised but who had - not been naturalised was 311,952. That meant that 32 per cent of the people who could  have been naturalised had not been naturalised. 
So, on the Leader of the Opposition's own figures, one-third of all migrants who come to Australia would be deprived of their rights of the Labor Party's Bill which requires citizenship were passed. Also, I believe that if the Labor Party's Bill were passed citizenship would be forced on these people under duress. In other words, a migrant would feel that if he were ever to get portability of pension he would be forced to be an Australian citizen. I do not believe that this is a correct way to encourage people to become citizens of this country. 
The third point or key requirement concerns the qualifying period. As previous speakers on the Government side have pointed out, the qualifying period of 20 years residence after the person concerned has reached the age of 16 is for only the age pension. Surely the basic disqualification of anyone for an age pension, whether he wishes to live in Australia or move to another country, is his age. The vast majority of migrants would require at least 20 years after the time they came to Australia before they could qualify, not because of a residential qualification but simply because they have not reached old age. The question of the residential requirement also applies only to an old age pensioner. 1 would like to quote from the second reading speech made by the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  on 13th April 1972. He said:   but there will be no residence qualification required for this portability in the case of invalid pensioners arising from a disease or injury contracted in Australia by a permanent resident, or in the case of widows' pensions, when the husband's death occurred while the couple were permanently in Australia. Portability will extend to the pensioner's wife's allowance, and also to the special pension payable for 12 weeks after the death of a member of a married couple. 
Just to make sure that there is no misunderstanding on this point, 1 would now like to quote the amendment moved on  behalf  of the Labor Party today and  in  particular I draw the attention of  (Honourable  members to that part of the amendment referring to the residential qualification. The amendment states: 
Whilst not opposing the provisions of the Bill, the House is of the opinion that the Bill should provide for the continuation of the payment of pensions and other benefits after a period of 10 years' residence in Australia and irrespective of any agreement between Australia and the current place of residence. 
This means that, with regard to the great range of other issues and benefits, a longer period of residence would bc required in Australia by the Labor Party amendment than is required by the Government's legislation. Ff we weigh up all the points in  regard  to residential qualification we see that easily the better deal for the migrant is contained in the Government's legislation. Compared with the residential qualifications in other countries, the standard  set  by Australia is generous. 1 remind honourable members that if they look a little more closely at the requirements of some of these other countries which have contributory pension schemes, they  will find  that, because a  minimum  number of contributions is required before benefit is payable either in the home country or in any other country, our requirements are very generous. 
I believe that the Government's legislation will provide justice for people who have made Australia their home and who have served Australia well, ft will be provided at no great cost to the Australian citizen. The legislation will provide migrants with a more equitable basis of portability than the alternative offered by the Labor Party would provide - if anybody can sort out which of the 2 approaches provided by the Labor Party in the last 3 months in this place is the one that it really means. Is it the Opposition's Bill of 23rd March or is it the Opposition's amendment to this legislation today? If the Opposition could sort that out, at least that would be some contribution to this debate. I congratulate the Government on the legislation and I support it. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What economic surveys of various primary industries have been undertaken by tha Bureau of Agricultural Economics since 1967. 
On what date was the Reid work of each of these surveys (a) commenced and (b) completed. 
When was the result of each survey (a) made available to his Department and (b) released to the public. 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware of rumours being circulated, allegedly by New Zealand dairying interests, including the New Zealand Dairy Board, that Australia is in the process of restricting her dairying industry and will therefore not be able to service long term contracts being offered at the present time? Will the Minister reject any allegations of this nature so that Australian dairy companies will not be disadvantaged in their negotiations for satisfactory long term dairy contracts with other countries? Will the Minister ensure that the New Zealand Dairy Board is made aware of our position, and will he request the New Zealand Dairy Board to co-operate more with the Australian Dairy Produce Board? 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
What is the annual (a) rate of production and (b) consumption of tinplate in Australia. 
What tariff protection is afforded to Australian tinplate. 
What amount of tinplate was exported in 1971, and to what countries. 
What amount of tinplate was imported in 1971, and from what countries. 
What percentage of total tinplate consumption is used in (a) the canning fruit industry and (b) other food preserving industries. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
When was a working party established in the Department of Health to examine the question of the inclusion of paramedical services within the scope of the National Health Scheme. 
What paramedical services are being examined. 
When will this examination be completed and a report presented to the Department. 
I address my question to the Postmaster-General. He will recall his announcement Of the proposed introduction of colour television by 1975. Can he inform the House whether, to his knowledge, individual country television stations will be able to finance the changeover from black and white to colour television? Will he assure the House that country television stations will be protected from takeovers, amalgamations or other loss of identity in contravention of the .Broadcasting and Television Act as a result of the cost of providing colour television in order to meet competition?' 
I have not heard so much tripe spoken on a subject for a long time. This Bill relates to the Millewa domestic and stock water supply pipeline scheme. It is described in that way in paragraph 1 of the explanatory memorandum. In Victoria there are 2 types of water supply scheme designated by the State Rivers and Water Supply Commission. There are those for irrigation and those for stock and domestic supply. Where a scheme is designated as a stock and domestic supply scheme, irrigation is not permitted and all the talk from the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  about fruit and the setting aside of large areas for irrigation shows his abysmal ignorance on the subject of irrigation. The explanatory memorandum indicates that the major pipe through which the water will be pumped will be a 12-inch pipe. Once again anyone who knows anythink about irrigation will know that a 12-inch pipe for irrigation is a fairly common size pipe for water supply to an irrigated farm. It is completely absurd for anybody to say that a 12-inch pipe can irrigate almost half a million acres of land, which is the area to be serviced by this stock and domestic supply scheme. 
If the honourable member for Sturt had bothered to check through his own State and had seen the stock and domestic water supply system in the mallee area of South Australia he would be very well aware of this. If he had bothered to go through 
Millewa  -  I was there recently - he would have seen some of these pipes in the ground and would have known that by the time they reach the average property they come down to about a 1 inch piece of polythene pipe. Certainly one can water one's front lawn with this diameter pipe but that is about all. As it is a stock and domestic pipeline its purpose is quite clear and the restrictions on the use of water are quite clear. It is to replace the present inefficient open channel system from which most of the water is lost through seepage and evaporation. By way of comparison, it is now compulsory to have a 5,000 gallon storage tank on each property whereas previously it was compulsory to have a large number of very big open earth dams with the consequent considerable loss through evaporation and seepage. The saving in water pumped from the Murray into this system will be considerable and of advantage not only to the whole Murray system but also to the people of South Australia downstream from this area. I believe this is a most forward step which has been taken by the State Rivers and Water Supply Commission of Victoria to put this pipeline in this area. Perhaps it should have been done originally, as South Australia did with many of its schemes. It is certainly a good move now and I congratulate the Government for supporting the scheme. 
The Opposition has criticised this Bill and the contribution of the Commonwealth Government to pre-school education. But I think that the irony of this criticism is that we are debating this measure wholly and solely because the States are lagging in their expenditure of this $2. 5m. So if anybody should be criticised it should not be the Commonwealth; it should be the States because they have failed to spend this amount in the time prescribed, i believe that this is the second extension of time for this pre-school teachers colleges capital grant that was originally to expire on 30th June 1971. This Bill will enable the money to be spent up to the end of 1973. 
The original aim of this legislation was to double the existing capacity, for preschool teacher colleges.',, Information provided by the Minister for ;Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  indicates, that this aim will be well and truly fulfilled. In considering ^Commonwealth participation in pre-school education one really should not be thinking so much about this Bill, which is an extension, but should be considering more the important new initiatives in the proposals announced by the Minister for Education and Science in this House last Thursday.' I congratulate the Minister and the Government on these important new initiatives: Because I think that much of the Press has not recorded the pre-school section of the Minister's statement on education, I wish to quote the appropriate passage. The Minister said: 
Recently, there has been increasing support from a number of directions for the principle that State teachers colleges should receive Commonwealth funds, both capital and recurrent, under the arrangements for matching grants for colleges of advanced education. The Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and' the Arts, which in February this year reported .on .the Commonwealth's role in teacher education, ' recommended that teachers colleges be granted' financial assistance for recurrent and capital expenditure under terms and conditions similar to colleges of advanced education. At a meeting of the Australian Education Council in 'May 1972 State Ministers of Education requested Commonwealth matching assistance for State 'teachers colleges and gave support, in principle, to bringing preschool teachers colleges within' the "advanced education arrangements. In addition my Department has received requests for assistance, with recurrent expenditure as well as continuing assistance with capital expenditure for pre-school teachers colleges from the Australian Pre-School Association and from the 6 pre-school teachers colleges. 
The Minister stated further: 
Secondly, the Commonwealth will offer to share with the States the capital and recurrent costs of pre-school teachers colleges, under advanced education arrangements, from July 1973. 
I think that this is a most important and commendable initiative by the Commonwealth. The Commonwealth has now set a firm and generous base for the expansion of pre-school education in Australia. The speed and direction of future development of pre-school kindergartens rests more with the States now than with the Commonwealth because it is the States' basic responsibility to conduct pre-school education. It is absurd for Opposition members to claim that the Commonwealth can step in and take over this role. It is absurd to blame the Commonwealth for the present percentage of children attending preschool kindergartens. If one wants to use the varying percentages of children at present attending pre-school kindergartens one should use them only as a basis for criticising the commitments of certain States to this aim. Unfortunately, the responsibility for pre-schools varies from State to State. Now that the Commonwealth has set a good basis for teacher training I hope that the States will improve their control and administration of pre-schools so that a greater percentage of children can benefit. 
My home State of Victoria reveals both the weakness and the strength of present arrangements at State level. The Melbourne Kindergarten Training College has had difficulty in obtaining land for its expansion programme. It is to be hoped that this matter will soon be resolved and that the college will be reimbursed for the $70,000 to which it is committed for the purchase of the land and will be allowed to complete its building programme. Now that teacher training college recurring costs will be shared by the Commonwealth it is to be hoped that the present fee of $380 a year charged to students attending the kindergarten training college can be abolished, that preschool teacher training can be placed on the same basis as other teacher training in Victoria and that the required number of students can be obtained for the expansion of this level of education. Victoria can also be congratulated on the commendable percentage of children attending pre-schools in that State compared with every other State in Australia with the exception el Tasmania. The development of pre-schools in Victoria in the last 10 to 12 years has been rapid. For example, in 1960 there were 357 pre-schools in Victoria. In 1970 the number had doubled to over 700. I am told that the annual State budget of the administering authority - the Maternal, Infant and Pre-school Welfare Division of the Department of Health - will be about $5m this year. In February of this year Victoria also instituted an inquiry into preschool child development. That is a most important inquiry. I hope that the findings of the consultative council that has been set up for this inquiry will provide a matching base at State level for a firm and clear development of pre-school education in Victoria in the future in the same way as the new initiatives announced in this place last week by the Minister will provide a Commonwealth base for that development. 
Like others who have spoken in this debate. I add my congratulations to the many people around Australia who are giving their time and money to assist and ensure that pre-school education is functioning in their own community. My wife was the  president  of a pre-school for some years and I am well aware of the calls that are made on people with young children - not only on people with young children - to help in this capacity. On some occasions even 1 have helped. In the discussion of this Bill mention has been made of groups of children who will benefit especially from pre-school education. I agree that those groups will benefit, but I want to add another group - the country children. It is difficult for children living on farms, even though they may be within reach of preschools by the use of modern transport, to mix and enjoy the social development of young children by learning to mix with other young children of their own age. Pre-schools provide this facility, lt is of tremendous importance to them for their social and psychological development that, prior to attending school, they can mix with other children of the same age. This provides a great advantage for them when they go on to state schools. I support the Bill and I congratulate the Government on the role it is playing in pre-school education, and particularly on the new initiatives announced last week. 
-- I agree with the 2 earlier speakers tonight that :he canned fruit industry is in trouble. But that is about the only thing on which I do agree with the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  in relation to this subject. I think the present problems that face the canned fruit industry can be solved far better if we stick to facts. The Goulburn Valley is by far the largest producer of canned deciduous fruits in Australia. Virtually every day I am in contact with the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and the industry on this problem. The honourable member for Riverina mentioned a loan - I think he used the word loan* - of $4.2m to the Shepparton Preserving Company, one of the Goulburn Valley canneries. He inferred that if only the same sort of general assistance were provided not just to Victorian fruit growers but to New South Wales fruit growers this would be better - it would be more equitable. The Leeton cannery, which is in his electorate, received $900,000 from the Commonwealth Government, and the New South Wales State Government provided a further $800,000. Two other major canneries in the Goulburn Valley have received no assistance at all. Over the last few years Commonwealth assistance to the canned fruit industry has been considerable - devaluation compensation of nearly $14m since 1967, advances to canneries in 3 
States, including those in the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area, and the recent announcement of $2. 3m for tree pull reconstruction assistance. 
The negotiations for the tree pull scheme went on with the States for some time. Originally it was hoped that a proposal whereby the States as well as the Commonwealth would contribute would be accepted and that this scheme could be introduced considerably sooner than it was. Unfortunately at the final point of acceptance one of the States refused to agree. The Minister for Primary Industry then had to start negotiating again a purely Federal scheme. During the latter stage of these negotiations within the Federal Government, the honourable member for Riverina came out with a great headline: 'S4.6m of fruit imported into Australia. This is a major cause of the problems of the canned fruit industry'. I submit that it prejudiced the case being put for and on behalf of the canned fruit industry in Australia at that time - at the latter stage of negotiations for the tree pull reconstruction scheme - because it tended to make people believe that the only thing that needed to be done to correct the problems of the industry was to stop these imports of canned fruit. Of equal importance is the fact that the honourable member's statement was not correct. 
This morning in the 'Australian Financial Review' the honourable member for Riverina had a letter headed 'Abandonment of fruit growers'. Right through the letter he blamed government, but in it he completely blurred the difference between the New South Wales Government and the Commonwealth Government. They were both lumped together as 'government'. During the currency realignment negotiations last December, when Australia devalued relative to sterling and most other currencies, the Australian Labor Party was conspicuously silent on what its attitude would be to a currency realignment. Unfortunately, 2 of the few countries that devalued relative to the Australian dollar - South Africa and the United States of America - happen to be the only 2 other major exporters of canned fruit. South Africa went down by 12 per cent and the United States by more than 6 per cent. To compound these problems the rand has floated downwards with sterling. So the Australian canned fruit industry is now competing against a 20 per cent advantage held by South Africa. This is a tremendous burden for any industry to be confronted with. 
At the present time the canned fruit industry is negotiating with the Government for compensation for these currency realignments. I certainly am supporting the industry and doing all T can to see that it is given compensation which will help growers to meet some of their overdue payments. What about the Labor Party and the canned fruit industry? What statement has ever been made by the Leader of the Labor Party on this most important rural industry? Last night we received, in an indirect way, his view of the canned, fruit industry. He said that the Australian dollar should be revalued; it should be appreciated. The canned fruit industry is already suffering the major blow of a 20 per cent devaluation within the last 12 months; yet that is what the Labor Party's Leader thinks of this important rural industry. He wants to add to its already heavy burden another burden. 
So much for the concern of a member of the Labor Party who stands up and says that he believes that something should be done for the canned fruit industry, when he cannot even convince the Leader of his own Party that the Australian currency should be kept at a competitive level for the canned fruit industry. The canned fruit industry is in real trouble at the present time. Stocks have risen. Now that the tree pull scheme has been introduced, more detailed negotiations are being conducted to look at more of the problems confronting the industry. But, if anything is to be achieved for this industry, it will not be achieved by people blurring fact, making mis-statements and grandstanding for their own support and their own aggrandisement rather than working with the industry and for the benefit of the industry. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I claim to have been misrepresented by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  in his speech on the Budget. He claimed that I had spoken in favour of devaluation. That is not correct. During discussion on the canned fruit industry last night I indicated that from the point of view of that industry Australian currency was too high. That is recorded at page 627 of Hansard. I did not say and I do not say that I believe our currency should be devalued. 
Has the Treasurer seen comments referring to the parity of the dollar and the suggestion that at the meeting of the Asian Development Bank in Vienna last April he suggested that he favoured revaluation of the dollar? Will he confirm or deny these allegations? 
In this debate the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  has spoken basically on rural credit and rural unemployment relief. He presented a mass of statistics in his best educationist style but he should realise that they are no substitute for an understanding of the rural problem. If rural credit is so important to the Labor Party why has the alternative Prime Minister, the Leader of the Labor Party and Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  failed to mention it at all in his Budget speech? The honourable member for Bendigo also criticised the rural unemployment relief programme because it was being used to employ people in country towns when it should have been going, he said, to the farmers. I am sure that many people in the country cities and towns would be very pleased to hear of that lack of concern by the Labor Party for their welfare. The Opposition believed until the revaluation blunder of last week that it would form the next government of Australia. Therefore its criticism of this Budget and more importantly its alternative proposals should be of considerable interest to the people of Australia. 
In the Budget the Government has clearly stated to the Australian public its priorities of expenditure. It has indicated its intention to tax people as lightly as possible and to maintain and to encourage the federalist system, as is shown by the large increases in revenue grants to the States. The Australian people have every right to ask what are the priorities of the Opposition. Prior to the Budget the public would have been confused by the numerous and often contradictory statements about what Labor would do, made by the various shadow Ministers or by Opposition members competing for possible ministerial positions. In the speech of the alternative Prime Minister on the provisions of the Budget the least that Parliament and the Australian public could expect was to hear specific proposals in priority areas. But what did we hear? I do not ask honourable members to take my word for it. An article in the 'Australian' of 23rd August stated: 
It is a pity that  Mr Whitlam's  Budget speech to the national Parliament last night was practically devoid of economic content. . . .  Mr Whitlam  presents a grand vision of increased public spending over a wide range of areas which are highly desirable. 
However he does not give any indication of priorities except to agree with the Government that the means test should be abolished over three years and 'in future Labor Budgets the education sector will be the area of greatest growth*. 
If honourable members do not like the Australian' I shall quote an article written by Maximilian Walsh which appeared in the 
Australian Financial Review' on 23rd August. The article stated: 
Opposition leader Gough Whitlam's Budgetcumelectioncampaign speech to Parliament last night failed to stir either his supporters or opponents. 
Written in classical Whitlam-esque style - a mixture of pedagoguery and secular evangelism - the speech was delivered with a metronomic precision. 
For different reasons, both sides of the House appeared to see it as bland and bordering on the irrelevant. 
The Leader of the Opposition was not specific. He gave no order of priorities and said nothing to bring order to the uncoordinated statements of the shadow Ministers. Nothing was said either about financing the lavish promises. Sales tax cannot be increased by a future Labor government because his speech contained a commitment to lower sales tax. As one newspaper said, soaking the rich' will not provide the necessary extra income; there are not enough of them. 
Therefore, the taxes paid by the average income earners will have to be increased it a Labor government is ever in power. These are the very people - the average people of Australia, the average income earners in the metropolitan seats - that the Labor Party hopes to seduce. And what a seduction this would be when the Budget provides at least a 10 per cent tax cut for these people. Labor's proposals, if logically sorted out, would necessitate a tax increase of at least 10 per cent not on the new Budget proposals, but on the tax scale operating prior to these Budget cuts. In other words, under a Labor government there will be an increase of approximately 20 per cent in taxation. Once again, there is no need to believe me on this matter. The editorial of the 'Australian' of 24th August 1972 states: 
If  Mr Whitlam  is elected to office and keeps all his promises, he will have to find finance for boosting pensions to 25 per cent of average earnings; ending the means test; handing out an immediate $100 million to pensioners and unemployed; reducing sales tax; raising unemployment benefits; extra spending on schools and hospitals; pre-school education; free university education; a national insurance schema; and regenerating urban public transport The inescapable conclusion is that  Mr Whitlam  will not be cutting income tax; he will be raising it, by 10 per cent or even more. 
If one does not want to believe the Australian' one has to turn only to the This Day Tonight' programme of 7th August in which Labor's Shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  indicated in an interview that Labor's idea of somebody whose taxes would be increased is somebody earning about $90 a week or more - in other words, barely the average income earner of Australia. 
Above all this criticism of taxation is the irony that the alternative Prime Minister criticised the tax cuts to be introduced by the Government in the following way: 
Taxation is not down. The rate of tax increases has merely been taken down a notch. The process of pushing the low and middle income earners into ever higher tax brackets by leaving the tax schedules fundamentally unchanged is to continue as damagingly as ever. 
His criticism was that the tax cuts of 10 per cent on average were not meaningful when it is obvious that, if the Labor Party were in power, ft would have to increase taxation by about 20 per cent. The Leader of the Opposition criticised these tax cuts in a way that precludes Labor, if it is ever successful at an election, from taking advantage of the natural growth in tax revenue. 
So, if Labor is successful and is to carry out any of its promises, taxation will have to be increased markedly, unless of course present Government expenditure as outlined in the Budget is significantly reduced in certain areas. However, nobody on the Opposition side has said that Labor is prepared to reduce expenditure on any of the Budget items. But perhaps if one listens to the shadow Ministers, who may be better called the sparring partners fighting over the monetary cake, certain clues emerge. Anyone who listened to the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  and the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  at and after the Launceston Conference would realise that rural support will suffer. But the honourable member for Dawson also weakens in his concern for rural industries when the going really gets tough. I quote from the speech made by the honourable member on 17th March 1971 in relation to the wool situation. He said: 
The Australian Wool Commission has panicked because of its failure to bludgeon the wool market into accepting higher prices. Grave fears are now arising that the Commission's activities could wreck the entire economic foundation of the wool industry. 
This speech was made at a time when the underpinning of the activities of the Australian Wool Commission by this Govern ment was the cornerstone that brought about a resurgence of confidence in the wool industry and higher wool prices. Yet at the height of this crisis we heard the great spokesman for the rural wing or rump, as it is sometimes called, of the Labor Party preparing to scuttle the ship. 
The alternative Prime Minister does not actually mention any primary industry in his speech so, in a negative way, he appears to confirm what the honourable member for Oxley believes, namely, that too much is being spent on rural matters. But how happy can the honourable member for Oxley be when his diligent preparation of a national superannuation scheme in conjunction with the abolition of the means test, which was costed over 6 years and which required an increase in taxation of 2.73 per cent to finance it, was overnight reduced from 6 years to 3 years? If honourable members do not believe what I say about the cost of the scheme I shall quote from the speech of the honourable member for Oxley on the Budget last year. It appears in Hansard of 9th November. He was talking about introducing a superannuation scheme. The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  had interjected to correct a figures and the honourable member for Oxley said: 
Yes, $l,800m. We are already providing something over $700m in current outlays and the extra cost is only about $l,000m. 
Of course, that is about 10 per cent of the total Budget expenditure. The honourable member for Oxley continued: 
Let us weigh this up against the fact that insurance claims for income tax deductions in 1966-67 exceeded $565m. 
I think that to be fair I should include the remark about income tax deductions for life insurance because it also confirms another suspicion that is gaining credibility, namely, that if the Labor Party is elected to office, it will cut out the tax deductibility of life insurance premiums. If the Labor Party intends to do this it should let the people of Australia hear about it. 
However, overnight this diligently worked out proposal of the honourable member for Oxley which was costed over 6 years has been altered by his Leader to 3 years to match the Government's proposals. No reference was made to the shadow Minister or to Caucus or, more importantly, to the Federal Labor Executive by the 
Leader of the Opposition before altering these figures. Incidentally, where does this leave Labor's superannuation scheme, which was an integral part of the abolition of the means test? Does it mean that it now has been dropped or does it mean that, in view of the fact that the scheme has been reduced from 6 years to 3 years, we will have to double the extra tax level to implement the scheme to over 5 per cent for that matter alone? Perhaps the alterative Prime Minister was only expressing his personal opinion and was not expressing the policy of the Labor Party when he spoke about abolishing the means test in 3 years. 
What about Labor's national health scheme which, on present costing, will require an increase in income tax of 1.35 per cent? What about the $100m direct grant promised in the speech on the Budget by the Leader of the Opposition? Is this $100m to be in addition to the increases in age pensions to 25 per cent of the average income? This proposal would cost about an extra $120m. The alternative Prime Minister also hinted at massive finance for the cities and local government but again nothing specific was said. He also gave a very strong hint of increased Commonwealth control in the dread field of centralism. The Leader of the Opposition stated: 
Any function of our society will grow in strength, quality and equality to the extent that the Commonwealth involves itself. But if Commonwealth involvement is limited just to providing cash, then there is no true national commitment at all to promoting the quality and equality of that community service. It is not enough for the national government to help in paying fees for doctors, for hospitals or for schools. That does nothing to reduce costs or to improve equality. The national government must involve itself in planning the service, and in the services themselves, not merely the costs. 
In other words he is talking about taking over the role of State and local governments. Perhaps the desire of the Opposition to extend Commonwealth control in these fields can be explained by another article in the 'Australian' of 25th August which is headed: 'A.L.P. money man out of the shadows' and which is an interview with the ALP shadow Treasurer. I quote from the article in which the shadow Treasurer is reported to have said: 
Of course it is a different matter with local government. Many of these people could not run a school pie stall efficiently and it is obvious that there is a need for new administrative arrangements here. 
If the Labor Party believes that local government could not run a school pie stall efficiently why does not it say so? Perhaps that is just the personal opinion of the shadow Treasurer and not Labor Party policy at all. 
These free wheeling statements are not restricted to finance either. What about censorship? The shadow Minister sees no need for censorship at all. Has anybody contradicted him? Does that mean it is Labor Party policy or is it his personal opinion? Last weekend we had an interesting exchange on Scientology. The shadow Attorney-General wants it; the Opposition Whip does not want it. Are both these views personal opinions or Labor Party policy? But the greatest inconsistency of all these things is not as between the alternative Prime Minister and his shadow Ministers, but in the speech on the Budget by the alternative Prime Minister himself. He was very critical of the present level of unemployment but he implied in his speech that our currency should be appreciated, and he has confirmed this on several occasions since. Everyone, including the honourable member for Dawson, agrees that this would lead to increased unemployment. Only the alternative Prime Minister's parallel initiative on tariff cuts by government action in place of Tariff Board recommendations could increase unemployment more rapidly. Not only would this mean massive unemployment but a direct contradiction of the increasingly super protectionist policy of his shadow Minister for Trade. Are these personal opinions or policy? 
The Australian public has 2 choices when looking at these series of proposals in the speech of the alternative Prime Minister: Either to accept all these propositions at face value - I am sure that he would want them to do that - but with them accept increased taxation, increased unemployment and a real drop in the living standard of Australians; or to believe, justifiably, that the things proposed, like revaluation, and the whole Budget speech of the alternative Prime Minister and the promises of shadow Ministers are only personal opinions and not to be taken seriously at all. I support the Budget. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Trade and Industry. In the interests of decentralisation of industry, will the Commonwealth consider taking similar action to that taken by the Victorian Government which proposes to offer payroll tax rebates to industry going to country areas? 
 Opposition members in this debate, whilst supporting the legislation, have criticised it. One of the criticisms has been that it is an election gimmick. To me when people use the criticism of something being an election gimmick they mean that they really do not consider it is necessary, but because there may be some popularity attached to it, that particular action is being taken. I believe it is up to the Opposition to say quite clearly whether or not it believes that this sort of legislation is necessary because by using the term 'election gimmick' I contend that members of the Opposition are saying that they consider that the legislation before us is not necessary. We on the Government side believe this legislation is most necessary. The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  and the Government are to be congratulated on instituting it. 
Members of the Opposition have also said that the legislation is piecemeal, partial, and ad hoc. I believe, after listening to speakers from the other side of the House that they show piecemeal, ad hoc and partial reasoning because there seems to be some confusion on what the priorities should be. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  said that perhaps we should modernise some of the homes rather than add to their numbers. Another Opposition member spoke about nursing homes and the number of 5,000 beds a year was quoted. He said that perhaps this was not sufficient. But the purpose of this legislation is to reduce the need for the great number of nursing home beds that are appearing year after year. If anyone says that this legislation is ad hoc, partial or piecemeal I believe that this only indicates that he has not read properly the 2 second reading speeches of the Minister for Social Services, the Budget announcements or the statement by the Acting Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  on related nursing care measures which also must be considered in this context. These measures, possibly more than any of the other Budget proposals, reveal an overall planned approach to the achievement of important comprehensive social goals. 
Furthermore, the extent of the Commonwealth initiative goes beyond these 2 important measures that we are debating at the moment. One has to consider other Budget announcements within this context. Just in passing I refer to some of the points made in the statement of the Acting Minister for Health on nursing care benefits. The Minister outlined increased nursing home benefits for pensioners, the inclusion of nursing home insurance benefits in the voluntary hospital insurance scheme, the new domiciliary care benefit of $14 a week for aged persons cared for in a private home and the increased subsidy for home nursing services. 
The 2 Bills we are debating, together with these other measures which I have just mentioned, have important social objectives. The first is to provide a 3-year crash programme with unmatched Commonwealth grants for increased hostel type accommodation and to do this in a way that will provide a measure of justice to those organisations that were pioneers in this field and which provided these beds prior to the 1957 government initiative of $2 for $1 for every bed provided. Furthermore, a part of the requirement in respect of these beds is that there will be no ingoing or key money, whatever one likes to call it, attached to the provision of these beds. The beds will be allocated on a needs basis. By the provision of the money to organisations with a proven record in this field, I believe, these extra beds will be more quickly and more efficiently established than by channelling money through any other source. 
The second objective is to provide more facilities for the aged who need care, but not the intensive care that is provided by a nursing home. The legislation makes the provision of extra hostel accommodation plus the doubling of the personal care allowance of $5 to $10 a week plus the home nursing care subsidy. All these benefits will provide an impetus in the desired direction - that is to allow more beds for those people who require some form of assistance but not the type of intensive care assistance that is provided by a nursing home. The third social welfare objective that these measures will achieve is for these desirable developments to take place at less cost to the Government than would be the case if the alternative development of more and more nursing home beds were adopted. 
Unlike some speakers from the Opposition who talk about this assistance going only to certain areas, I would like to remind the House that these benefits will certainly go to many country areas. In Victoria many of the long-established old folks homes are sited in provincial cities and not necessarily in the metropolitan area. There is a large group of self contained units for aged people, known as Miller homes, scattered throughout Victoria. I have 3 of these groups in my electorate. As the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt)  mentioned earlier in this debate, the higher average age of the community in rural areas places a heavy responsibility for the care of aged people on local hospitals, filling beds in the hospital with what are really geriatric cases and on the smaller percentage of working age people. This occurs because of the higher average age of the community in rural areas. The provision of these funds will reduce this burden on both local hospitals and that section of the community which is called upon to assist with everything that is required to keep a rural community going. 
Finally, the channelling of these funds through local community and religious organisations, as the Government is doing, I believe will mean that there will be more personal and involved concern for the aged people who are to be cared for. This will avoid much impersonal institutionalising - a term that has been used by the Opposition in its criticism. I believe also that we will avoid much of the criticism that has been forthcoming, because there will be more personally involved care at the local level to avoid the institutionalising that occurs in many of the larger State run homes and in some of the other countries that the Opposition has put forward as examples we should follow. I believe that the Government's provision of these funds to established organisations will enable us to avoid this pitfall. I have very much pleasure in supporting this legislation and in congratulating the Government and the Minister concerned. 
I support the proposal before the House for the construction of a new post office and telephone exchange at Shepparton, which is in my electorate. I congratulate the Public Works Committee on this recommendation and on the conscientious and detailed study that it made of these proposals. I think its example in this regard is a most worthy one for a parliamentary committee doing its work in a conscientious way. Not only did the Committee study the alternative proposals which were put forward, but it visited the area and allowed local opinion and the views of Shepparton people on the proposed demolition of the existing building to be heard. 
The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  referred to the problem that arose because this building is of historical value in the Shepparton area. The real problem the Committee faced was to decide whether the existing building could be maintained and altered to provide sufficient facilities for the Shepparton area in the future or whether it would be better to demolish it and build a new post office and telephone exchange. I believe that the Committee made the right decision, because Shepparton is one of the most rapidly growing provincial areas in Australia, and growing with it is the postal and telecommunications business, which will require a larger and more up to date building than can be provided by the alteration of the existing building. 
I am glad that the honourable member for Hughes also mentioned the careful demolition of the existing building. In the evidence the Shepparton City Council requested careful demolition so that the building material could be obtained, free of charge, for re-erection on another site. I remind the Parliament that it was stated by departmental representatives at the hearing that the Shepparton City Council could be assured of the co-operation of the Commonwealth in arranging the careful demolition of the building, and the contract would provide accordingly. I hope that the Commonwealth adheres to this assurance and also that the Shepparton City Council is able to continue with its project to re-erect what is the only old building of any significance in the Shepparton area. I repeat that I support the proposal and congratulate the Committee on its good work. 
The Minister for Primary Industry will be aware that a delegation from the Austraiian Apple and Pear Board is to go overseas to negotiate freight rates for the shipment of apples and pears to the United Kingdom and Europe in 1973. Is he aware of the present anomaly in container freight rates between the 2 fruits whereby it costs $244 more to ship a container of pears than it does to ship a container of apples? Will the Minister exercise his influence with the Board to ensure that the Victorian industry's case to the Board seeking and justifying equal rates for both fruits is given full cognisance in the negotiations with the ship owners? 
The Australian Country Party supports the Bill which was introduced by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  It indicates the concern of the Government for the welfare of soldier settlers in general and particularly soldier settlers in trouble in South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. The Minister in his second reading speech referred to the complex technical agricultural problems that have arisen at such places as Kangaroo Island. He mentioned the investigations already made which have prompted this legislation. He also mentioned the need for these investigations to continue and for flexible administration so that changes can be made as necessary. This is a far more sensible approach than that of the Australian Labor Party which seeks the appointment of a select committee of the House of Representatives. Such a select committee would have no hope of matching the technical expertise already available to overcome these problems. In addition to the specialist technical agricultural advice already being used there is the considerable financial and budgetary knowledge of the State administering authorities. 
The proposed amendment also mentions future land settlement schemes. The Murray electorate contains several hundred soldier settlers and over 100 more have been settled under the more recently established civilian land settlement scheme of the Victorian Government. These are fine people, good citizens and good farmers, as I am sure are the soldier settlers in the other States, including those referred to in the Bill. Victoria ensured that these settlers were provided with a viable living area. I believe that part of the problem with some of these schemes has been the failure of the State government - usually a Labor government - to provide a viable living area. 
I would hope that any talk about future land settlement schemes - such as that in the proposed amendment - would concentrate more on the provision of adequate credit for settlers to buy existing properties than on the development of closer settlement schemes as the amendment suggests; that is for the development of the single unit system that has been available in the past schemes. I wish to draw the attention of the Minister to the fact that in the near future at either Federal or State level, or at both levels, a serious study will have to be made of a credit incentive scheme to encourage young people to enter farming. The Australian Agricultural Council is a suitable body to hold such a discussion. 
The average age of Australian farmers is rising, lt is not as high as it is in Europe, but it is already uncomfortably high. Insufficient numbers of young people are entering agriculture for the continuance of a balanced and dynamic agricultural industry in this country. The main problem is the capital required for young people to enter the industry. If young people in adequate numbers are not encouraged to enter the industry we will run into problems similar to those being encountered in agriculture in Europe. One has only to compare the level of efficiency of agriculture in the European Economic Community countries and study the manifold problems there in order to realise how fortunate we are to have a balanced agricultural industry. I ask the Minister to consider this proposition, not just for the future of farming but for the future of this country as the provider of an efficient agricultural work force and an efficient agricultural production unit. I support the legislation and reject the amendment. 
This Bill is a major piece of social welfare legislation. It is one of several social welfare measures that are in the process of being passed or have been passed by this Parliament. Measures relating to aged persons homes and hostels have been introduced. Those relating to nursing care and repatriation are still to come. Put together these measures provide outstanding and comprehensive social welfare legislation and they make a broad attack on social welfare problems in this country. It is an indication to the people of Australia that this Government is concerned about social welfare problems and shows them where this Government stands. The Government has thrown out a major challenge to the Labor Party in the field of social welfare. With an election approaching it would have been interesting and valuable not only to this Parliament but also to the people of Australia to be told the exact' policy of the Labor Party on social welfare. If the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  who is the shadow Minister for Social Services, and the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  who is the shadow Treasurer, got together and coordinated their policies it would be an advantage to the people of Australia. They would have a chance to learn the real policy of the Labor Party; this is not possible from a series of contradictory and uncoordinated statements. 
We were told that over a period of 6 years a Labor government would abolish the means test and introduce a national superannuation scheme. Overnight the period was reduced to 3 years, after the Budget was introduced. I think the people of Australia would be interested to learn whether that is the personal opinion of the Leader of the Opposition, as was the case with revaluation. Has Caucus agreed to the change from 6 years to 3 years? Where does that leave the national superannuation scheme? Originally it was to be introduced over a 6-year period. I listened today to the honourable member for Oxley and it seems that the closest we can get to the Labor Party policy is that if it was in office it would hold an inquiry into the possibility of establishing a national superannuation scheme. 
It has also been said that the Labor Party would bring about an immediate increase of 25 per cent in the base pension rate. The Leader of the Opposition has also previously promised $100m immediate social welfare advance. The combined cost of those 2 promises is about $220m. That is a considerable increase on the expenditure that is proposed by the Government at the present time. According to the newspapers of last week, if a Labor government came to power there would be no increase in taxation. This aspect of Labor's policy involves the expenditure of a further $220m, and does not even include the expenditure of the revenue from the 1.35 per cent additional taxation which the Labor Party claims would be necessary to implement its national health scheme. That is an interesting contradiction of the statement of the alternative Prime Minister that Labor would not increase taxation and of the remarks made by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  who evidently believes that to phase in over 6 years Labor's superannuation and abolition of the means test proposals would require a 2.73 per cent increase in taxation. If these proposals are now to be implemented within 3 years it could mean, on Labor's own reckoning, an increase in taxation of approximately 5 per cent. 
There also are some interesting contradictions in statements made by leading spokesmen for the Labor Party on the question of a national superannuation scheme and tax deductibility on life insurance premiums. It has been implied that if a national superannuation scheme were introduced by a Labor government life insurance premiums would no longer be tax deductible. This is rather interesting in the light of the fact that the Leader of the Opposition a few weeks ago stated that he would channel the investments of insurance companies in Australia into protecting Australian owned companies again foreign takeovers. If life insurance premiums are no longer to be tax deductible, I do not think there will be too much insurance money floating around to prevent these foreign takeovers. These interesting contradictions and unco-ordinated statements make a mockery of the claim made by the honourable member for Oxley in regard to the Minister's credibility. If anybody's credibility is at stake on this issue, it is that of the shadow Minister for Social Services. The honourable member for Oxley spoke about on-the-spot decisions. I think the best example one could bring to mind of an on-the-spot decision is the overnight decision of the Leader of the Opposition to reduce from 6 years to 3 years the period in which the means test would be abolished. 
Opposition speakers also have criticised what they consider to be an unfair relationship between the class B widow's pension and the age pension, as if this was something that was introduced by the present Government. I remind honourable members opposite that the Labor Government in 1945 introduced the differential rate between the class B widow's pension and the age pensions. At that time the class B widow's pension represented 83 per cent of the age pension. When Labor was removed from office at the end of 1949, the maximum rates for the class B widow's pension and the age pension were  $3.70  and $4.25 per week respectively. This meant that the class B widow's pension represented 87 per cent of the age pension. With the implementation of this legislation, the position very soon will be that the class B widow's pension rate will represent 86 per cent of the age pension rate, and that is not taking into consideration the supplementary assistance. If the supplementary assistance is added to this rate, as it should be, the class B widow's pension rate will be increased to more than 88 per cent of the age pension rate. Obviously this is higher than it was under the Labor Government! So much for the point as to who introduced this differential between these 2 pensions. 
I return now to the positive policies of the Government which we are studying under this Bill. I congratulate the Minister for Social Services on his vision, on his untiring work in relation to what must be the greatest range of social services legislation to be introduced into this House in one brief period of time and on the detail into which he goes on this subject. We saw a good example of this just yesterday morning in the pamphlets that are being produced in a whole series of languages so that everybody in Australia will know what his entitlements are under the new social services legislation. There are too many details covered by the legislation to refer to all of them. There is no doubt that the highlights are the major increase in the base rate of pension and the extension of the eligibility provisions so that a pensioner's wife no longer is debarred, through age, from obtaining the married age pension or the invalid pension, as she was in the past. 
Rent assistance has been doubled. Although I think this is a very good move, I agree with those who are critical of the fact that as yet we have not seen our way clear to provide rates assistance. I know of one State that does provide this assistance; perhaps there are others. Not providing this assistance creates anomalies for people who have worked hard, but who are still paying off their own home and paying rates at the same time. They are being debarred from receiving assistance while other people who perhaps are less worthy are obtaining rent assistance. However, the legislation indicates the Government's concern that those who are in the greatest need should receive the greatest assistance and that this assistance is being increased at a faster rate than the rate at which the cost of living is increasing. 
This legislation heralds the beginning of the end of the means test. In fact, it goes a good way towards achieving this objective. I congratulate the Government on this very important milestone. The means test is to be phased out for people over 65 years of age. Already, under the Bill before us the amount that one oan earn in income or have in property is to be doubled before any limitations under the taper, are imposed. This is very welcome news. Under any means test, whether it be a social services means test or an education means test, there are so many anomalies that much injustice is done. People of modest means suffer because of the arbitrary cut-off points in relation to the amount of work that they can do and the amount of income that they can earn when they are anxious to help themselves and remain as independent and as useful as possible. 
In rural areas the means test presents special but very real problems. The 2 groups of people who suffer are the farmers and the small businessmen. Under the means as assessed property component of the tapered means test, there is a notional 10 per cent return on property. Quite often the Valuer-General in a particular State will set the value of the property at an artificially high level in relation to the price for which it could be sold. Certainly, what the vast majority of the farming or country town business people could ever hope to obtain as a return on their capital is far less than 10 per cent. This brings with it several problems. These small town business people cannot sell their property because nobody wants to buy such a business. They have this artificially high valuation placed on their property by the Valuer-General; yet they are debarred from obtaining any assistance in the form of the age pension. 
The farming people have a real problem as regards the transfer of the family farm from one generation to the next. For a period of time 2 generations are trying to earn a living from the farm, and the hope is that the older generation will retire into the town and become eligible for some form of pension assistance. But, because of this very high value that has been placed on the property and because the cost price squeeze has reduced the profitability of the property, the farm does not provide a living income for 2 generations. Yet the older generation is debarred from receiving any pension assistance. Earlier this afternoon I read the second reading speech made by the then Minister for Social Services, Hon. Hugh Roberton, in 1960, when the merged means test was introduced. There is no doubt that the merged means test - in the meantime the tapered means test has been introduced - was a vast improvement on the situation that applied previously. Once again the present Government is to be congratulated for that. 
But we still have this problem with property in relation to the means test. Perhaps this is a little carping because, after all, we have the assurance that the means test will be completely obliterated within the next 2 to 3 years. New Zealand has set an interesting example in this regard. It has cut out the property component of the means test for people between 60 and 65 years of age, and only the income component applies.. Of course, once people reach 65 years of age in New Zealand they have an income tax tested superannuation rather than a means tested age pension. I presume that that is what we will have here. We will cut out all forms of means tests and rely upon income tax, which to me is the fairest and best way to test anything, whether it is in respect of education, social services or anything else in this community. I am confident that the present Minister for Social Services will preside, as T believe he rightly should, over the complete abolition of the means test in Australia. The stage which we have reached with this legislation is a tremendous leap forward to that end. Anything that I have said about problems with the means test in relation to property is not meant to detract from that tremendous leap forward. 
The amendment that is before us is delightfully vague. I think that that is the best expression one could use. Probably there is every reason why it should be delightfully vague for, as I pointed out earlier, it could not provide detailed firm policy of the Opposition's attitudes to social services because the Opposition does not have one. It has a delightful collection of contradictory and unco-ordinated statements. I have very much pleasure in rejecting the amendment, supporting the Bill and congratulating the Minister and the Government. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Trade and Industry. The Minister will be aware that the United Bearing Corporation Pty Ltd, which has a ball bearing factory at Echuca, is the only complete manufacturer of ball bearings in Australia and that this factory was established by the Government during the war and sold by the Government to the company presently operating it 12 years ago. Will he state what steps are being taken by his Department to process the company's request for emergency tariff protection from imported bearings? Will he give his sympathetic and urgent consideration to the request in view of the company's outstanding record of efficient production and the importance of this industry to the nation and to the city of Echuca? 
I wish to refer to cheese production, cheese imports, cheese exports and cheese statistics. These subjects fall to a certain extent within the administration of the 3 departments under review and also the Bureau of Census and Statistics, which is under the control of the Treasury. Cheese is the great hope of the manufacturing section of the dairy industry in Australia, both on the home market and the export market. It is one of the few food products the consumption of which per capita increases with the standard of living. The per capita consumption of most food products drops as the standard of living increases. In Australia the consumption per capita of cheese has been rising steadily, although I noticed in the interim report of the Australian Dairy Produce Board released last week that a slight drop has occurred this year. However, I believe this rise will continue in line with what has occurred overseas. 
There are tremendous opportunities for cheese export, particularly to the Japanese market where consumption is increasing rapidly and new varieties are required. The Japanese people have a distinct liking for gouda and the cheese industry is gearing itself and changing its manufacturing methods to supply this market. On the home market the demand for types of cheese other than cheddar is increasing. This trend on the home market has been hastened by the Tariff Board report on the dumping of non-cheddar cheese. The report, released a few months ago, recommended that the temporary dumping duties on the importation of noncheddar varieties of cheese from overseas should be continued. This provides both a challenge and an opportunity for the cheese industry on the home market. The opportunity is to fill the gap that will be left as imported cheese will continue to a certain extent to price itself out of the market because of the duty that has been imposed. The challenge is for the industry to ensure that it does this properly and that it provides the varieties that are required by the home market with the quality that is required. 
The production of cheese also is a great asset because of the utilisation of milk. Most varieties of cheese contain butterfat, that is, the whole milk is used for cheese production. It is apparent that the world will always require and always be short of milk protein products such as skim milk powders, caseins and so forth. But unfortunately, before we can get to the milk proteins, it is necessary to remove the butterfat and butterfat is the problem commodity in the dairying industry on the world market. Cheese provides an alternative utilisation of whole milk and I hope that, as the international and local markets for cheese develops, it will overcome this problem. 
In meeting this demand for cheese for both the home and the overseas markets, the cheese industry is at a serious disadvantage because there are no adequate up to date statistics available to tell the industry where it is going. There are 2 forms of statistics that are available to the industry. Firstly, there is the production summary which gives monthly statements on total production figures for butter and cheese. This comes out fairly promptly but it goes into only gross production figures, lt gives no breakdown at all of the varieties of cheese. Unfortunately - I hope this was only a routine measure being adopted by the Bureau of Census and Statistics and not a threat of a change in policy - accompany ing the last production summary was a reminder sheet which asked for readers' opinions on whether the monthly summary should be abolished and whether it would bc considered adequate if a quarterly, a half yearly or an annual statement replaced it. As this is the only information sheet to my knowledge that provides as the year progresses production figures of 2 most important commodities produced by the dairying industry - butter and cheese - I sincerely hope that the Bureau is not serious in its possible intention to drop the monthly production figures. 
The statistics for varieties of cheeses are of crucial importance because of the attempts to develop new export markets with varieties of cheese other than Cheddar, and also because of the challenge that now exists in the home market for the industry to develop varieties of cheese other than Cheddar due to the tariff against the imported varieties that has been confirmed by the. Tariff Board report. However, one looks in vain for any sort of reasonably detailed and, perhaps more importantly, up to date figures. For example, in the interim report of the Australian Dairy Produce Board that has just been released, when one looks at table 22 which relates to cheese production by varieties one finds that the last available figures for cheese production in any varietal form in Australia is for the year 1968-69. This is September 1972. It is a pathetic situation for an advanced country such as Australia that the best it can do is to come up with statistics that are 3 years out of date relating to an industry - the cheese section of the dairying industry - that is changing rapidly. It is an industry for which up to date production figures by varieties are so important. 
One could go further and say that, even for 1968-69 the industry did not produce many varieties anyway. I think that about 9 varieties are mentioned. Now that gouda is to be included - it was not included in 1968-69 or earlier, but I understand that it will now be listed - and as gouda is now the second major form of cheese produced in Australia, one could say that even the spread of varieties that is included in the tables is insufficient. But I think the more critical factor is that these statistics are hopelessly out of date. They are obtained from a manufacturing census and included in a statement of principal manufacturing commodities. I have been told that it was bad enough in 1968-69 but in 1969-70, only a couple of years ago, no manufacturing census was taken and no detailed figures for the cheese industry will be available even at some, later stage. The census just was not taken and the figures will not be available. 
I sympathise with the Bureau of Census and Statistics with the problems it has in collecting statistics. The Bureau is constantly being asked to produce more figures and detail on a tremendous variety of subjects. Something that is as important as the development of the cheese industry in Australia, both from a home market and an export market point of view, should have up to date statistics. It is not good enough to have figures that are 3 years out of date, for them to be on a very limited range and, finally, for them not to be available at all for the. year 1969-70. I hope that the 2 Departments concerned with the cheese industry in Australia - the Department of Trade and Industry and the Department of Primary Industry - will also exert pressure to ensure that this lamentable situation is overcome. 
I agree, with the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  that there are certain inadequacies in rural education. However, I suggest that the raw statistics on the percentage of those children who begin secondary education and continue right through to completing that education are coloured somewhat by the number of country children who for no other reason, because it is the only way they can complete their secondary education, have to leave the State system in country areas and finish their education in the non-government section of education. As well as highlighting the inadequacy of rural education, this highlights one other point and that is that the. proposal to work out a reasonable and sensible means test for education as is suggested by the Opposition is a hopeless objective. The Opposition's argument is that a means test applies only to a school and pays no attention to the. need or the abilities of the parents concerned. In many rural areas there are parents who cannot afford to send their children away to pri vate schools. But if their children are to receive a secondary education they have no alternative to sending them to a private school. This makes a complete mockery of a means test applied at the school level. 
I welcome the Commonwealth Government's initiative that has been taken in several special fields of primary and secondary education. I support the increased per capita grants which are being provided for non-government schools and also the. capital grants for school construction and reconstruction in both the private and Government sectors. I am told that this will mean a 25 per cent increase in State government school construction programmes. I suggest that before anybody starts to talk too much about whether or not a needs survey has shown that $l,400m or $1.500m is required for government school construction programmes over the years ahead and before anybody starts to make this sort of criticism they should wait and see whether the States themselves can achieve this increased level of construction. Already in several programmes sponsored by the Commonwealth Government the States have not been able to match the increased finance that is now available to them. 
I support the other forms of special assistance for education, such as migrant education, Aborigines and handicapped children. I add my support to those speakers who have mentiond another special group of children who should receive some attention from the Commonwealth Government, and that is country children. So far discussion on country children has been basically around isolated children. I will support any move that the Government makes to help this group of children but the group of children about whom I want to talk is not those in isolated areas, it is the next group of country children who live in the small country towns or who live on farms surrounding these towns. It is very hard for them to obtain adequate secondary education because, the school facilities are just not there. The alternatives for these children is to have a long school bus ride, sometimes involving several hours a day in travel; to be boarded privately or in a hostel in the nearest town which is of any consequence and which has some form of adequate secondary education or to be sent away to private boarding schools. 
This is a problem in country communities and it will get worse because there is a drift in population away from some of these areas and this means that the facilities with which to educate the children will deteriorate rather than improve. Because of the lack of employment opportunities both on the farm and off the farm in rural areas there is an increased need for a more diverse form of education to be available to these people so that they can be better trained to enable them to obtain employment should they have to move to some other district. The Commonwealth Government recognises this problem because it provides a living away from home allowance. 
I have some concern for the education of country children. If certain members of the Opposition do not, perhaps they can express it when their turn comes to speak. The Commonwealth Government recognises the problem of living away from home as it affects country children in areas like the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory. 1 believe that Victoria is the only State that does not provide some assistance either through hostels oi some other form of living away from home allowance. The levels of allowance vary tremendously State by State. In some States the means test is applied, and so on. I nsk the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to consider taking a new Commonwealth initiative to provide a flat rate living away from home allowance for those children who have to leave their home, whether it is in a small country town or on a farm, in order to complete or obtain adequate secondary education. A flat rate living away from home allowance could be used either for payment of hostel fees in areas where hostels are provided, or for private boarding facilities in the town nearest to the secondary school which they attend. If they wish to do so the students could use the funds to help meet the fees at private nongovernment boarding schools. 
In the time remaining to me I want to refer to some of the work of the Common wealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and, in particular, to the field of animal reproduction. Some months ago I had some correspondence with the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Fraser)  concerning a new technique in animal breeding called ova transplant. A considerable amount of research work has been done on this new technique, particularly in England. 1 believe it has now reached the stage where more applied research or development research is required for its application in Australia. Less than 2 weeks ago 1 was at a private property outside Melbourne where $30,000 has been spent on an ova transplant laboratory. This technique offers tremendous potential fo.speeding the transfer of superior genetic material in the cattle industry. I was rather disappointed that the correspondence I had with CSIRO indicated that it considered that this technique was rather esoteric an. that its commercial application was still some time in the future. 1 do not believe this is so at all. I think that the potential of the utilisation of this technique is tremendous. lt can do for the genetically superior cow what artificial insemination has done for the genetically superior bull. With superovulation techniques, in one season a superior cow can produce more offspring than previously she was able to produce in a lifetime. The cattle industry has as few genetically superior cows as it has genetically superior bulls. I hope CSIRO or another body that can do this work with funds from the Australian Meat Research Committee will sponsor the development work on the transplant technique and on the superovulation technique which I think is necessary for their final commercial exploitation. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware of statements by some medical authorities that animal fats are not the major contributor to the incidence of heart disease in the Australian community? Is he aware also of - reported research findings in France that rapeseed oil, a vegetable oil, could tend to promote heart disease? As rapeseed oil is used in both France and Australia mainly as a cooking oil, will the Minister request the National Health and Medical Research Council to investigate immediately the possible health hazard in human consumption of this vegetable oil and, if confirmed, will the public be informed of this danger? 
The appropriation of the Department of Labour and National Service for employment training schemes lists rural reconstruction or the rural re-training scheme. It states that in 1972-73 the estimated expenditure is $250,000. This compares with an appropriation for the scheme last year of $300,000 - an actual expenditure of $27,000. The small expenditure last year has been used by some as a criticism against this scheme, that there is something wrong with it, that the moment we have a scheme there should be a lot of people flocking into it. I believe this is ignorant criticism for a variety of reasons. One of them is that any scheme takes time to develop. As of August of this year the figures for those in the rural retraining scheme were as follows: Approved 99, actually in training 77, awaiting commencement 21 with one completed. I think this shows the gathering impetus in the scheme. But I still think that is the wrong sort of criticism if one is to criticise the scheme. In a way, if there have not been many takers, and people are not going to accept this scheme, I believe it could mean that perhaps things are not as bad in the country as some people would like to see; that there are not as many young people who are eligible because of the rural reconstruction criteria that they can take part in the scheme, and that perhaps things are not so bad after all. 
Also I think it shows that we have less of a structural problem in agriculture than in most other countries of the world, that there is more natural mobility amongst younger people in country areas - and as I live in a country area I can see this - that when they feel that opportunities are not there for them they naturally move out. This is the sort of thing that would worry me more with the scheme than the criticism that has been made so far. Also it has been said that the criteria are too restrictive. However, reading comparable schemes in northern Europe and North America the criteria of this scheme and those of those other countries seem to be virtually identical. The allowances for this scheme and the schemes in North America and northern Europe also are virtually identical. However, I would remind the Minister for Labour and National Service,  (Mr Lynch)  that we have inflation in this country and the allowances should be flexible and upgraded from time to time in this regard. 
If I were to comment on the scheme I would say that it is basically half a scheme rather than a whole scheme and that it has rather dangerous social and agricultural implications for Australia. That is not to say that we should not have the scheme because I believe we should. But if one reads what is being done in European countries and North America - and they started 10 years earlier than we did so therefore they have had more time to sort things out, and they have had greater structural problems in agriculture - we see that they have a retraining scheme for younger people generally and an earlier retirement scheme for older people in farming. The problem with agriculture around the world generally is that the average age of farmers is too high and this trend is increasing. It is too high for the dynamic type of agriculture we would like to see continue in this country. Therefore, if we have a scheme that encourages younger people to leave instead of encouraging the older group in agriculture to move out, this can have dangerous implications, not just for dynamic agriculture but social problems in the sense that we have fewer people available in the rural community to provide leadership in the community, to provide the backbone for community services required in a rural community, whether this be in regard to the school committee, the hospital or anything else of this nature. 
I am pleased that the Minister made his statement in August which indicated gathering impetus towards improved training practices in industry and commerce. The Minister mentioned the general redundancy scheme which, by itself, adequately answers any criticism that the criteria are too narrow because if someone is not eligible under the criteria for rural retraining, he is eligible under one of the other retraining schemes. The document, which I think is a very important one for general retraining in industry in Australia, sets out the improved subsidy scheme for the appointment of apprentices and certain improvements in relation to country apprentices. I think that this is important in providing the opportunity for employment in rural areas, not just for farming people but also for people from country towns. I compliment the Minister on these improvements. 
I have received some criticism as well as congratulations from some people in regard to the scheme but I think we have to see how it works before I make any more comment on it. I think the scheme is important for people in country areas. Also important is the ability of the children of country people to obtain a good secondary education because people will need to have a basic education to be able to take advantage of the opportunity to obtain other forms of employment. This education will allow them to undertake such employment. 
I would now like to move back to the point I made about the other half of this scheme. When one reads the Mansholt plan for the reconstruction of European agriculture - and I know that this is not being accepted in full in Europe - and also the existing programmes in European countries, there appears to be the general tendency to the alternative that if a person is under a certain age group and he wants to get out of the industry he can be retrained' so that he can do this; if he is over a certain age group he can virtually be pensioned off. This latter part of the scheme starts at the age of 55 usually and provides some form of income maintenance or negative income tax scheme which to me would be our rural equivalent if this country were ever to introduce some more general form of negative income tax or income compensation. The idea of this is to see that the older people who are less mobile in a rural community are moved off the farms so that there is a better opportunity for younger people to stay in agriculture. There is a problem where we have the older generation and the younger generation together and one of the generations has to go. The younger generation, because it is probably more dynamic and mobile, is the one that moves. From the point of view of the future of agriculture that is the wrong generation. 
In addition, we should do something to ease the older generation out of agriculture - and the abolition of the means test is of considerable significance here, with the property component so far adding to the immobility of older people in agriculture - and allow them to move into a nearby rural community where socially they are happier and they are still in their own environment. Also the introduction of the urban and regional development plan has relevance here because if one reads the European schemes, the Europeans have been working on regional planning for longer than we have. If one is to have both the rural retraining scheme and some form of retirement scheme that is as appropriate as possible, we should do it in conjunction with regional planning that allows both groups of people to be retrained or retired as close as possible to home. 
If one looks at the growing problem of a structural imbalance in agriculture it will be seen that this is caused by not enough young people moving into agriculture and too many old people staying on for longer than they themselves would like to stay. We have reached what on first appearance is a contradiction: On the one hand there is a rural retraining scheme, which I support, to encourage young people to leave agriculture but, on the other hand, it appears that we need to have some sort of special credit facility or loan scheme which will encourage young people to move into the field of agriculture and overcome the high capital barrier which prevents so many of them from moving in. 
Although, on the surface, it may appear to be contradictory, I think that in addition to having the rural retraining scheme, from the point of view of dynamic agriculture in this country, I think we have to introduce some sort of retirement scheme for farmers and also some form of credit arrangement to allow young people to come into agriculture. Generally speaking, I believe that the present proposal is a start and I congratulate the Minister whom I urge to disregard the criticisms which have been made. I believe that they were ignorant criticisms made by people who like to base everything on statistics but who have no idea of what actually happens in the rural scene. 
The Apple and Pear Stabilisation Bill and the States Grants (Fruit-growing Reconstruction; Bill refer to apparently similar industries. This in probably true in respect to the export apple industry, but it is not the case in the fruit industry in the Goulburn Valley and the Murray Valley in northern Victoria. When considering these 2 Bills one must remember that the canning industry is basically distinct from the fresh fruit industry. The States Grants (Fruitgrowing Reconstruction) Bill relates to the canning industry, particularly the pear section of that industry. The Apple and Pear Stabilisation Bill refers to the fresh fruit section of the industry. The fresh fruit section of the horticultural industry in the electorate of Murray provides two-thirds of Australia's fresh pear exports. The fresh fruit section is a significant industry by itself, but the major section of the industry is the canning fruit section. Three of the 5 major canneries in Australia - Ardmona, Kyabram and SPC - provide about 70 per cent of Australia's canned fruit production. 
The WBC or Bartlett variety of pear is basically a canning pear. It has not generally been accepted as a fresh variety of fruit but attempts to find new markets for this variety of pear have resulted in some success with its sale as a fresh export pear. Unfortunately, the Schedule of the Apple and Pear Stabilisation Bill retards or hinders the development of this particular variety as a fresh export. I welcome the increased support provided for in the Apple and Pear Stabilisation Bill. The maximum support is to be increased from 4.4m bushels to 4.9m bushels. I, like those in the industry in my area, would prefer a longer term guarantee of a reasonable level of support than the year for which provision is made. 
There is also the problem of the apple and pear ratio. It is impossible for the quantity of fresh pears exported ever to rise above a certain percentage of apple exports in the total. Growers in my district believe that they suffer a disadvantage in that the apple growing section of the industry could flood the available finance to their detriment. They are concerned also about the freight rate differential between fresh apples and pears. Where identical containers are used, it will cost SA244 more to send a container of fresh pears to the United Kingdom than it will cost to send a container of fresh apples. The industry has welcomed the statement made by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in this House some weeks ago in reply to a question asked by me that he said he could see no justification for this differential to continue. This information has been signalled through to the Victorian exporters who, I believe, are negotiating at the present time in the United Kingdom on freight rate structures. 
Some of the problems that the fresh pear export industry will face with the entry of Britain into the European Economic Community are becoming more and more apparent. It was announced just recently that the EEC Countries propose to increase rates of duty on the import of fresh fruit from outside countries. At the same time, as I understand it, we are trying to negotiate for an extended period over which our preferences will be retained or, if you like, we are negotiating for the counter preferences that will be imposed upon us with the entry of the United Kingdom into the EEC to be phased in over a longer period. 
However, the States Grants (Fruitgrowing Reconstruction) Bill is by far the most important of the 2 Bills to the horticultural industry in northern Victoria. Discussions have been taking place for a considerable time now in relation  to  a scheme that would provide some financial justice for the fruit growers hurt because of currency decisions made by this country, marketing problems, and an alleviation of the supplydemand situation by pulling trees out of the ground. In my maiden speech in this House last May I referred to a group of pear growers in the Goulburn Valley who were financially distressed.  Mr Cope,  of the Northern Victorian Fruitgrowers Association, and I approached the Prime Minister for assistance in this regard. Later the Canned Deciduous Fruits Industry Advisory Committee presented a tree removal scheme prior to the February meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council. Discussions between Federal and State officials followed but no agreement was reached on a satisfactory tree removal scheme. 
The Minister for Primary Industry then very quickly and commendably drew up a scheme as an adjunct of the rural reconstruction scheme. Unfortunately, for a number of reasons this scheme is not succeeding. The severe means test criteria has meant that very few growers will qualify under the scheme. Many growers who are in financial difficulty and who want to pull trees will not receive help to do so because, it is stated, their financial difficulty is not severe enough. These people are caught. They do not have the cash or liquid assets to pull the trees and to pay for the regrading and the resowing of this land, and they cannot afford the inevitable wait until this land can produce something else. Most of these orchards are too small to provide a completely satisfactory alternative form of living, and the question of redundant assets arises here. This means that if anybody wants to sell his property he is selling on a market of few buyers. If we already have an over supply situation - we certainly do have a chronic over supply situation with regard to pears - nobody will want to buy that land at its orchard value. No-one will want to buy redundant assets at their face value. Yet these people have been told at the same time that their financial difficulty is not severe enough for them to qualify tor assistance under the scheme. 
One of the hopes of the original negotiators was to provide some scheme that would enable trees to be removed from the ground so that the supply and demand ratio would be brought into better balance. This is not happening at all. So the industry which has been faced with reductions in sales to canneries in the last 2 years will be faced with further reductions in sales this year. The figures provided earlier in the debate by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  are now hopelessly out of date. I think most figures issued by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics are relatively out of date by the time the average person sees them. But as the report to which the honourable member for Dawson referred was issued a couple of years ago, and as the severe cannery quota restrictions have been imposed since that time, any figure representing an average return to a grower as indicated in that report bears no resemblance to the present situation. 
There is the further problem that canneries invoke quotas in different ways. They are forced to invoke quotas, of course, because of Reserve Bank limitations and because of the fact that a grower really can can only what he can sell. In spite of these quotas some people are still faring relatively well, I suppose, although they are not faring nearly as well as they did some years ago. Others are in severe financial difficulty. Regrettably, the final scheme was announced several months too late, as far as those engaged in the industry in the Goulburn Valley were concerned, to allow an adequate sorting out period, which is essential, particularly with a new scheme such as this, and allow the growers time to make a management decision as to whether they would accept the terms of the scheme or try to fight on in the industry and go ahead and prune. 
We now have the situation that some growers have not pruned or sprayed their trees with consequent problems to other orchards, and their applications for assistance have been rejected. One could say, perhaps, that it is their own fault, that one should never make a judgment on anything until one sees it in black and white. One could say also perhaps that certain leaders in the fruit growing industry have unjustifiably raised the expectations of these people as to what would be provided. I am probably to blame to a certain extent myself in this regard. On one or two occasions the Rural Finance and Settlement Commission also has stated to growers that they would surely be accepted under the scheme and they have now been rejected. There are groups of growers in one area in particular who are in this hopeless position. They do not have the liquid assets really to make management decisions. They have been rejected under the scheme and they have not proceeded with their seasonal pruning and spraying. 
I accept that the Federal Government has provided considerable assistance to the fruit growing industry. As the Minister stated in his second reading speech, $13. 8m has been provided for devaluation compensation and $6.4m has been advanced to canneries, most of which will be made available on loan at commercial rates of interest. There is provision for a nitrogenous fertilizer subsidy which is of particular benefit to fruit growers. So I do not accept the proposition that this Government has not helped this industry. But the industry has faced and is facing far greater problems, I believe, than any other primary industry of Australia because of changed marketing circumstances due to several factors. 
Including exchange rates. I thank the honourable member. Perhaps these factors were the precipitation of the severe difficulties 12 months earlier than was expected because of the entry of Britain into the European Economic Community. The other point I wish to mention is that freight rates comprise a very large proportion of the costs associated with this industry. As we all know, freight rates have been accelerating at an alarming rate. Because of these problems, some of which have been brought about by government decisions, this industry more than any other deserves generous Government assistance. The States Grants (Fruit-growing Reconstruction) Bill does not provide generous Government assistance. I appreciate the work done by the Minister and believe that he has had a most difficult role to play in trying to obtain agreement with the various sections of the industry, the grower organisations, the competing interests of canners and growers, and with the overall problem we have under our Federal system of getting the State governments to agree as well. The last point was the death knell of the original tree pull scheme. 
I believe also that as a pioneering scheme there will be difficulties and that the Minister has acted as promptly as anybody could expect a Minister to act in view of the problems he has had to face. Unfortunately it has been stated that there will be no review of this scheme until February. I have tried to obtain, without success, an immediate review of the scheme. Reasons, and possibly sound reasons, have been put forward. It is said that we will have to see how the scheme works out in reality before any review will be possible. And then there are the complications of a review at this stage of the parliamentary year. Unfortunately there will be many people who, by the time February comes along, will not be in a position to take advantage of any easing of the means rest or any alteration to the scheme itself. That is why 1 believe that an immediate review would be to the advantage of the industry. If this scheme is to work, significant alterations to it will be necessary. 
One of the key points in relation to the application of the means test is the changing of the word 'severe' to 'substantial'. In the long run this alteration of the wording will have to take place. There may even be a case for the industry, if it believes that the means test is not successful, to put up some alternative proposal under which it would make a contribution in return for the dropping of the means test. The industry does feel hurt that in the change from one scheme to the other it was not given a final warning that if it was not prepared to contribute in some way the means test would be applied. This is a just criticism by the industry of what has happened. In the Federal Government at the present time we are busily and, I believe, correctly dropping the means test on age pensions. The means test, as has been shown by the age pensions and the special emergency grant to wool growers and as would be shown if it were applied also in respect of education, causes more anomalies and more injustices than it solves. I feel like opposing the Bill but to do so would be self-defeating because it is essential that we have some scheme in the hope that we can alter and improve it rather than not have any legislation at all. I reject the amendment moved by the Opposition because from the point of view of the tree pull scheme it is irrelevant. 
I agree that it is aimed more at the apple and pear stabilisation scheme. In the near future the canning fruit industry will have to be provided with or will have to work out in conjunction with the Government - I think the latter is the best way - a stabilisation scheme. This is the only long term proposal which in any way can solve the problems of the canning fruit industry of Australia. If necessary, statutory provisions will have to be included to ensure that ali sections of the industry pull together as they should and as 1 know at certain times they do not. 1 reluctantly support the Bill but if when the stabilisation legislation or plan for legislation comes before the Government the Government is not prepared to be more generous in its attitude to this industry than it has shown itself to be so far in this legislation, my reluctance to oppose legislation will vanish because that will be the crunch point for the fruit growing industry or at least the canning section of it. If there is not to be a reasonable and generous stabilisation plan for this industry the industry has nowhere to go. I feel like opposing the Bill but, realising that that is not a realistic action to take, I will not oppose it. 1 reluctantly support it and appeal to the Minister for a review to be conducted as soon as possible aimed at the inevitable improvement that there must be in the scheme if it is to work. 
First of all I want to thank the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  who yesterday, after a busy day, came to the centre of the problems in the canning fruit industry at the present time, the Shepparton area, and spoke to a gathering there which included a high percentage of fruit growers. I thank him for the trouble he went to on that and on other occasions to talk to fruit growers. But there are 2 matters I want to raise with the Minister now. Firstly, he mentioned in closing the second reading debate that the means test criterion would not apply to the partial fell provisions of the States Grants (Fruit-growing Reconstruction) Bill and that the viability criteria of the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Bill would apply. I think I am correct in saying that they were his words or that that was his intention. I ask the Minister: Has this been made clear to all State administering authorities? In one case at least which I have seen and possibly in several others in Victoria in replies, more commonly containing rejections than acceptances by the Rural Finance and Settlement Commission, the means test criteria appeared to me to have been applied to partial fell applications rather than the viability criteria of rural reconstruction. I ask that the Minister make it abundantly clear to all the State administering authorities that the partial fell provision is different from the clear fell provision. 
The second matter is that nowhere in this legislation is any reference made to debt adjustment provisions as they may apply to horticulturists under the rural reconstruction scheme. I refer here to the debt adjustment provisions of the rural reconstruction legislation which was passed last year and to which we could call this a fruit growing adjunct. On at least one occasion in this chamber the Minister has stated that horticulturists are to be eligible for debt adjustment equal to that received by all other primary producers under the ordinary rural reconstruction legislation. I ask him to repeat that assurance today to the Committee and also to make it clear once again to the States that horticulturists are just as entitled to debt adjustment as are other primary producers under rural reconstruction because in Victoria there would be very few fruit growers who have received debt adjustment. I know of several instances where it would appear abundantly clear that such people should have been accepted for debt adjustment but have been rejected. One has the suspicion that the Victorian administering authority refuses to allow any debt adjustment cases for horticulture to go through because its own priorities are in other fields of primary industry. It refuses to place horticulturists in the same position as other primary producers. 
Finally, I point to some contradictions from the Opposition in relation to this matter. Members opposite have been busy pointing to contradictions from this side. I have been pointing to some of what I regard as the weakness in and the unhappiness I have about this legislation as it stands. In his second reading speech the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  said, on the one hand, that Victoria appeared to be getting preferential treatment, and later quoted from rural finance cases instances to show that Victorians are not being so well treated after all. A Press statement in the 'Sun' of 17th June read: 
The canned fruit industry faced a nation-wide crisis,  Mr Grassby,  Labor New South Wales said yesterday. It could have a 5 million carton carryover at the end of next season. 
I believe the more accurate figure to be about 2.5 million cartons. However we have a rather strange contradiction. In this morning's 'Australian' appears the following: 
City food and textile prices will rise sharply in future unless the Government changes its policies towards rural industries, a Federal Labor M.P. said last night. 

 Mr A. J. Grassby (Riverina) said because of the policy of reducing production, apples would cost 30c each in the city, oranges 20c and canned fruits would be a luxury. 
That is a rather strange contradiction. Firstly the honourable member says that we will have a 5 million carton carry-over and, a couple of months later, he says that canned fruit will be so short that it will be a luxury. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! I remind the honourable member that we are in Committee and that he should refer to particular clauses of the Bill. 
I accept your guidance,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  and conclude by saying that if the Opposition is genuine in saying that the restrictions of the means test criteria in this legislation are against its views, namely, that there should be more trees pulled to reduce production, surely that is completely contradicting the honourable member for Riverina who claims that if we do not watch out Government policy will make canned fruit a luxury because there will be too little of it. 
I wish to speak about salinity and the River Murray, but before doing so let me commend the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz)  for the most comprehensive statement which he made to the House recently and which was contained in the booklet which we all now have entitled Australia's Natural Resources - Minerals, Forests, Water and Energy'. I also want to congratulate the Minister for his patience and persistence which have at last resulted in the commencement of the Dartmouth Dam. The national water resources development programme which was initiated in 1966 with funds of $50m and extended in 1969 for a 5-year period with a further $10Om, has been of tremendous importance and advantage to the development of irrigation and water resources in Australia. The scope of the programme was widened in 1969 to include other factors including salinity control. Work on salinity control became eligible for financial assistance and Victoria has already made some use of money provided for that purpose. 
The widening of the scope of the programme came at a most opportune time in view of the report of investigations into salinity in the River Murray basin. The problem of overcoming the increasing salinity in our greatest irrigation area, along the River Murray, is of tremendous national importance. I hope that the further research that has to be undertaken can be concluded so that we can get on with the major work of salinity control along the Murray. The sorting out of priorities between the 3 States and the River Murray Commission in respect of works to be undertaken is progressing as quickly as possible. The Minister visited the area in January this year and saw much of the Victorian irrigation system and the salinity problem. He noticed as he went upstream into the eastern section of the irrigation area, particularly in around Kyabram and Shepparton, that the salinity problem is not as marked as it is further downstream and that the problems are slightly different. There the water tables are not as saline as they are further downstream although patches of higher salinity are developing, lt is of considerable importance for us to note that the water tables are rising rapidly in this area and that there is no basic surface drainage system to relieve this situation. The Minister was shown a number of examples of self help by people. They are pumping water from bores and re-using it to lower the water table. This is helping, but greater overall planning and development of drainage in that area is needed if some of the problems further downstream are not to be repeated in what is the most productive part of the River Murray irrigation system. After I and 2 State members of Parliament visited the Minister in May to talk about possible extensions to the national water resources development programme, I was pleased to receive a letter from him in which he stated: 
Other types of work designed to improve the efficiency of water use or  to  increase availability of water for rural development are also eligible, as are drainage works associated with irrigation development. 
The last part of that sentence is of tremendous importance to the irrigation areas in northern Victoria. No doubt the State Rivers and Water Supply Commission of Victoria will have taken note of the fact that drainage works are eligible for assistance, and I hope that any applications it makes for allocation of funds under this programme for works including surface drainage works as part of the ordinary irrigation development for efficient use of resources, will receive sympathetic consideration by the Commonwealth. Victoria is different from the other States in the sense that it has developed its natural water resources to a far greater degree. So Victoria's requirements for assistance under this programme differ from those of the other States. In particular, the 2 things that Victoria needs in regard to irrigation are improved efficiency of distribution and improved drainage works. 1 think that from a cost effectiveness point of view these would yield higher returns than would new irrigation works elsewhere. I refer to the following paragraph, on page 86 of the comprehensive statement on Australia's natural resources: 
A good deal of attention has also been given to tha renovation of distribution systems in existing irrigation projects as a means of making additional supplies available, as in the GoulburnWaranga system in Victoria. Improvements in distribution efficiency in large systems can result in a significant increase in the quantity of water available for delivery to the farms. 
There has been a startling increase in the percentage of water finally delivered to farms in the Goulburn-Waranga system in the last few years. By that I mean the percentage of water that leaves the last regulator in the weir or in the main distributing channel and is actually sold to the farmer. In my particular district efficiency has increased by up to 30 per cent, and I believe that this is a very important aspect of the efficient use of our water resources. I think this is what we are talking about and what the Minister talked about in his comprehensive statement. So Victoria, if it is to be assisted, as I hope it will be, will require assistance more with distribution systems and drainage systems than with capital works or headworks programmes. 
In regard to the overall control of salinity, the drainage problems and the high water table problems in the GoulburnMurray system are of tremendous importance. I also draw the Minister's attention to the greater awareness of wildlife habitat when we are looking at the River Murray system and our irrigation systems. I do not want to detract in any way from what the honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  may say on this question. I do not know whether he will speak on it, but he certainly has been a great promoter of this important aspect over the years. One of the things that we all saw when the Minister visited Victoria in January was the ibis rookeries at Kerang. 
I believe that when we are considering the efficient use of our natural resources it is important for us to remember the wildlife habitat that happens to be in an area. I refer not only to the Kerang Swamp area but also to the Barmah forest area which is very much a part of the River Murray system and which is, to a certain extent, under the control of the River Murray Commission. There is a difference of opinion as to whether forestry or wildlife should come first at Barmah, but I hope that a sensible conclusion and compromise can be reached so that wildlife is an acceptable part of and plays a role in the scheme of things. Perhaps at one time irrigation farmers were too keen to drain every swamp in order to use every acre foot of water that they could get but now they are aware of the importance of wildlife to the ecology of an area, and the ibis is an outstanding example of this. I hope that in any scheme involving the use of water we provide for the breeding grounds of birds and of other animals. The irrigation community would welcome and support the diversion of water for that purpose. 
Of course, after the Dartmouth dam is constructed there will be the problem of the river height below Wodonga to the Yarrawonga weir, the problem of erosion control and the problem of the capacity of the river itself. I welcomed some correspondence which I received from the Minister in which he informed me that desnagging operations are taking place in this area and that these operations will be increased so that by the time Dartmouth is completed the capacity of the river in that area will be enlarged. In this way the full benefit of Dartmouth will be obtained. In conclusion I would like to commend the work of the Department in the research that it is carrying out into water use, the gauging of our water resources and generally the whole concept of the efficient use of the water on this continent. 
The Minister for Primary Industry said last week that the Australian Agricultural Council would consider at its February meeting the matter of production controls for the dairy industry. Will the Minister ensure that production controls are not introduced until or unless they are necessary? Will the Minister ensure that a reasonable buffer stock of dairy products is allowed to accumulate before controls are considered necessary, remembering that periods of oversupply in the dairy, wheat and wool industries have been followed by periods of world shortage? Will he also state why Government assistance to the dairy industry has been reduced this year? 
The honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett)  and other speakers on the Government side of the chamber have shown some surprise that politics are involved in pensions. They made very political speeches in which politics were shown to be very much a part of pensions. The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  made a very political second reading speech. It was the custom with the previous Government for a second reading speech to be a technical document of explanation. This matter will continue to be political because pensioners are people and people are politics. This Government will have to face more politics in regard to pensioners because of its failure to live up to its election promises which many people believed would be carried out and which will not be carried out by the legislation which is proceeding at present. It is all very well for honourable members opposite to say that the promise of an immediate payment of $100 to people on age pensions and unemployment benefit was not made in the actual Australian Labor Party policy speech. That promise was definitely made by  Mr Whitlam  in Perth. I have a copy of the 'West Australian' referring to the promise of $100. The matter was referred to again in Budget debates and in calculations of the cost of proposals if the Australian Labor Party became the government. 
I agree that it was not in the policy speech, but the important point is that people expected the pension increase because the promise was made. I had people coming to my office after the election asking when they were to receive their $100. This promise, too, was made by the Prime Minister in his policy speech: 
All pensions will be immediately- 
I emphasise immediately -  raised by S1.S0 and thereafter, every spring and every autumn, the basic pension rate will be raised by $1.50 until it reached 25 per cent of average weekly male earnings. 
The same people also asked me before Christmas when they would receive their $1.50 a week because it had been promised together with the $100. As to the pension rate reaching 25 per cent of average weekly male earnings, it has been pointed out already that with the present rate of inflation in this country and a twice yearly increase of $1.50, pension rates will never reach 25 per cent of average weekly earnings because the inflation rate would have to drop below  7i  per cent per annum. 
The Minister for Social Security mentioned in his second reading speech that the Government would be prepared to respond appropriately if such proved to be the case, the point being that the inflation rate may remain as high and, therefore, 1.50 would be insufficient. The honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  referred to reasonable time being allowed in which to introduce the changes. Considering that many Australians voted for the Australian Labor Party at the election in the belief that they were to receive additional benefits more or less immediately, I think it is up to the Government to say what is a reasonable time so that the people of Australia, particularly the pensioners who have been lulled into this belief, will have a clear indication of what will be the Government's performance as distinct from the Government's promise. 
One thing to be remembered is that the greatest danger faced by people on fixed incomes, particularly pensioners, is rampant inflation. They suffer more from inflation than any other group in the community. While a government can appear to be giving something to people by increasing pensions it can be taking it away very effectively because of the inflation rate. As the bills come in, as they inevitably will  -  I am referring not to Bills in this House but to financial bills to this country due to the financial policy of this Government - the pensioners will have to ask the question, as will the people of Australia generally: 'Have we really been made any better off or are we worse off because of this problem of people facing inflation on a fixed income as pensioners?' This leads me to the general principle, but a false belief, adopted by some people that, because a country devotes a certain percentage of its gross national product to social welfare payments, the people of that country are better off. I think that a distinction must be drawn between a person's welfare in absolute terms and a person's welfare in relative terms. There is no doubt that if a high percentage of a country's GNP is devoted to welfare in relative terms it could be said that those people are better off than are other people in the community. But if, because of the overall financial policies of the government of a country, that country stagnates and real improvements in standards of living and welfare do not proceed as promised or as hoped, the actual welfare of those people in absolute terms is slipping behind all the time. 
I can remember the comparison that was made in the course of some of the disturbances that occurred in the United States of America. People suffering relative poverty were complaining. I think they were rightly complaining because in relative terms they were badly off compared with other people in their community. But the comparison was made that the people who were complaining - industrial workers, particularly in the Los Angeles area - in absolute terms were far better off and were achieving an improvement in welfare at a faster rate than were the average workers in Britain. 
I agree that it is important to have relative welfare within a community. But this cannot be achieved with complete disregard for absolute welfare and for overall improvements in standards of living in a country which the policy of any government can effectively ruin. I think the position can be summed up by the story about a person who was driving down a street in a new car. A Labor Party supporter and Country Party supporter, were walking down the street. The Labor Party supporter said: 'If I had my way that person in that car would be walking down the street with us*. The Country Party supporter said: 'If 1 had my way we would all be driving down the street.' I think that this story illustrates the difference between absolute improvements in welfare and relative improvements in welfare. Incidentally, that story originally was told, I believe, by an official of the union representing automobile workers in the United. States who was making the point that an American worker was better off than his British counterpart because America believed in absolute improvements in welfare. 
In the speeches that have been delivered, poverty, when it has been mentioned, has been used in relation to city poverty. ! do not criticise this approach because various studies have made the point correctly that poverty is to be found in our cities. The honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  quite properly referred to this fact in his speech. But I think it would be a mistake and an oversight if we did not recognise also  -  I hope the Minister for Social Security does recognise - that in many ways a greater percentage of poverty exists in rural areas than in metropolitan areas. 
Some of the policies that this new Government will introduce to assist in alleviating  some  of the problems of poverty will be applicable in metropolitan' areas only. Not only is there a higher percentage of chronic unemployment in country areas, as indicated by rural unemployment relief grants, but also is there the problem of country people earning incomes which are below the minimum wage which is fixed for people in receipt of wages. In many of the smaller rural areas particularly in respect of dairy farms and banana plantations in northern New South Wales, owners of holdings receive very low incomes. My point is proved by the results of surveys by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. One should not forget that poverty is something more than the conditions found in a big city industrial ghetto. A person does not need to be unemployed or in receipt of a pension to be poverty striken. A person who is self employed, unlike wage earners, has no guarantee of a reasonable income. I know honourable members on the other side will say that the minimum wage is not high enough. That may be so but at least some form of minimum wage is guaranteed for those people who qualify for it. 
We should not overlook the problem of rural poverty. As yet the means test is still applied. Many of the poverty stricken people in rural areas are debarred from receiving social service benefits because of the factors working against them. People who are self employed, particularly if they are property owners, cannot receive these benefits because the means test includes a calculation of 10 per cent notional return on property. This criterion must be met before these people can qualify for social service benefits. This requirement makes it almost impossible for them to receive these benefits. They may be poverty stricken but still be refused any type of pension as they cannot sell their property. .Because of the notional return calculation of 10 per cent - in many cases the actual return is a negative return on capital rather than a 10 per cent return - they are beaten all round. 
I made this criticism of the previous Government when it was in power and I will continue to make it whichever government is in office. I believe that this is a most unjust feature of our social security system. The only way to overcome it is by the complete abolition of the means test. I will encourage the present Government to get on with the job of abolishing the means test. 
Good. I am glad to hear that. The new rates announced in respect of unemployment payments are of considerable concern to me and to the Country Party. The rates for persons below the age of 21 years have been dramatically increased. The rate for 16-Year-olds has been trebled. It now equals the adult rate. I believe that this is not in the best interests of the people concerned and it is not in the best interests of our country. It discriminates against an adult and a married person. A study of the proposed increases reveals what I would consider to be discrimination against the more genuine person who needs assistance when he is unemployed. By fixing the rates in this way the Government will reduce the need for an unemployed person to take the initiative and to look for work. I agree that the proposed increase of $4.50 a week is nothing less than anybody should receive who cannot obtain work, particularly if he is over 21. 
But 1 am concerned with the position of the person under the age of 21 years, particularly if that person is single. There are social implications for the nation in that case. The attitude of young people is that somehow or other they can get benefits without having to work for them. There are real contradictions between the circumstances of young people. Apprentices - I think Australia needs as many apprentices as it can train - receive a small income while they are training. Yet somebody out of work in the same age group will receive the adult unemployment rate. This situation is not good. The Minister stated in his second reading speech: 
Unemployment benefits do not pander to lazy layabouts. The work test administered by the Department of Labour through its unemployment officers effectively controls the work shy. 
But in a Press release from the same Minister on 19th January which was quoted earlier by the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten),  the point is made that a person's dress should not debar that person from receiving unemployment benefits. If one talks to employers about the standard approach of these young people who do not wish to gain work, one is informed that they deliberately do not have a wash and deliberately present themselves as dirty as they can, knowing full well that they will be refused employment. But under the new regulations, unemployment benefit will be paid to them. One has only to look at the shortage of workers at present in the fruit growing areas of Australia to see the facts of this situation. We are told on the one hand that Australia is suffering the highest unemployment rate that it has recorded. Yet in the Goulburn Valley fruit growing area and in the tomato and grape growing areas of Victoria, the shortage of workers has never been so great. I think that the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  pointed to a similar situation in South Australia. These conditions exist at a time when our unemployment rate is supposed to be the highest for many years. The reason for this state of affairs is that young people who do not wish to work find it easy to live very well on unemployment benefits. In summer they live in southern Victoria and in the winter months they travel to Darwin or Cairns. They live very well indeed. One has only to talk to the owners of orchards in the Goulburn Valley to hear of the blow-ins who think they might like to work in the orchards. When they are told what the work really entails they say: 'No, I can do far better by continuing with my unemployment benefit'. 
We have to be very careful in this country that we do not put such a squeeze on the self-employed person, whether he is a small businessman or a farmer, a person with some initiative - I do not mean a wealthy company but a person who wants to lead his own life and do something constructive himself - that he would say that the only organisations really worth being employed by are the Government service and big companies. We have to be careful that a person who wants to do something for himself is not squeezed from all sides. We have to be careful also that in some areas our social welfare payments are just to all in the community and that the penalties we impose on certain sections of our society do not outweigh the justice we are doing to others or, put another way, that we do not give to one section on the one hand and take away from another section on the other. We have to realise that there are important national and social goals which should not be jeopardised by certain other aspects of policy which sound good and are good but which at the same time are outweighed by these problems which will develop. 
No. We take a realistic attitude. We want to remember and this would worry me very much if it happened - that unless we take into account all these aspects when considering an overall social welfare policy the same thing could happen here as is happening in at least one other country, at the present time. There a backlash has developed against social welfare which is now acting to the detriment of those who deserve and need social welfare. We have to be sure that in its application our policy is just to all sections of the community and that this backlash or reaction does not develop and retard the progress of true social justice in our community and, as a result, hurt more those people whom  we  are trying to help with this legislation. 
On the night of Tuesday, 20th February, exceptionally heavy rain fell in the Seymour area in Victoria. I mentioned to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard),  who was Acting Prime Minister at the time and who released a Press statement 2 days later concerning the flood damage that took place, that I wished to draw his attention to the matter. But I notice that the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  is sitting at the table tonight. Although the Minister for Defence was Acting Prime Minister at the time of the flood I think this matter really concerns the Treasurer more than the Minister for Defence. The very heavy rain in the Seymour area came on top of heavy rain over the previous few days. The result was a disastrous local flood in which one person died. Altogether 135 houses along the sides of Whiteheads Creek were flooded, many of them seriously, and insurance is not payable on flood damage. 
On Thursday, 22nd February, the Acting Prime Minister issued the following Press statement: 
COMMONWEALTH OFFER OF ASSISTANCE IN SEYMOUR FLOOD DISASTER 
The Acting Prime Minister,  Mr Lance  Barnard, today expressed the Commonwealth Government's concern at the flood damage in the Seymour area. 
In extending sympathy tothose who had suffered in the floods,  Mr Barnard  said the Commonwealth was prepared to sympathetically consider any request submitted by the Premier of Victoria for assistance. 
He said the Commonwealth would join with the State Government of Victoria on a dollar for dollar basis in the normal way for financing schemes for the relief of personal hardship and distress in the affected area. 
I congratulate the Acting Prime Minister on his promptness in this regard. Seymour is not in my electorate. It is in the electorate of the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  who also was very prompt in directing attention to this matter. 
I draw the Treasurer's attention to the fact that Seymour was not the only area that suffered that night in the heavy downpour. 
The same cloudburst extended from Rochester in the north west to Seymour in the south east. It was not only in Seymour that houses were flooded and property was damaged. I make no criticism of the Acting Prime Minister for mentioning only Seymour because that was dramatic; that was where the news was. I ask the Treasurer for the same offer as was made for the flood victims of Seymour be extended to other people who suffered in a similar manner from the same rain on the same night. 
Four types of flood damage resulted from the heavy rains in Victoria. In addition to house damage, damage to personal effects and property damage, hundreds of miles of fencing was lost in the Rushworth area that night. A considerable percentage of the tomato crop in the Goulburn Valley, which is the major area in Australia producing tomatoes for processing, was lost. Some of the crop was several feet under water for some days. The main irrigation channel which serves the Goulburn Valley burst its banks and intensified the flooding. 
There was also road damage. The Shire of Charlton, which is in the Wimmera electorate, estimates that $75,000 will be required to repair road damage alone. The total rate revenue of the Shire of Charlton in a year is $100,000 or a little more. So virtually the whole of its revenue will be required to make up this loss. 
There was also considerable damage from soil erosion in my area and in the Charlton area. I know it is always a problem to determine just how much flood damage assistance and what type of assistance can be provided. I ask the Treasurer to extend in a suitable manner the same assistance as has been offered to the Seymour people to the other people who similarly suffered. I suggest that this assistance could be given in the usual manner - that is, in conjunction with the States. The State members of Parliament for the area who represent all parties have spoken to the Premier of Victoria about this matter. I hope that the Treasurer, in conjunction with the Premier of Victoria, can agree to an extension of this flood damage assistance to all of the people who were affected that night. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. The Labor Party election policy booklet 'It's Time - Rural* states that the Labor Government will provide long-term low interest loans for farmers. The honourable member for Riverina, who is Minister for Immigration, has stated that $500m will be made available for these loans at an interest rate of 3 per cent per annum. Furthermore, the Minister for Services and Property stated in the House last Thursday night that an inquiry was being held on this subject. As the Governor-General's Speech contains no reference to long term loans for farmers, what is the position? Is an inquiry being held? If it is being held, who is conducting it? Will the delay of an inquiry prevent the specific allocation of $500m at 3 per cent interest as indicated by the now Minister for Immigration? 
The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb),  who has just sat down, referred to some inconsistencies on the part of the former Government. I ask the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  who is in charge of this Bill, to clarify some aspects of this legislation which could be inconsistent. I refer to the question as to whether male contraceptives will be exempted from sales tax. I quote from an article in the 'Australian' of 1st February in which the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  stated that he wanted to make clear that the Government did not intend to discriminate against buyers of male contraceptives. The article states: 
In Gladstone, Queensland, yesterday  Dr Everingham  assured us that men would not be discriminated against. The luxury tax on the pill had been removed because representations had been made to the Government from this area, he said. 
I have spoken to the Treasurer about condoms and I expect a favourable decision before long. He is looking at it now'. 
I raise this matter not politically but to clear up confusion in the minds of some people as to whether sales tax will still apply to male contraceptives. After all, this form of contraception is just as legitimate as are other forms and in some cases it is the only form of contraception that can be used. I take it that the charge to be laid against the new Government is that by leaving this tax on it was practising sexual discrimination in reverse. Therefore I ask for clarification on this point. 
This Bill has 2 distinct purposes. Firstly, it exempts from sales tax parts and accessories for metric conversion equipment. The Country Party supports this. Secondly, it removes the sales tax on contraceptives particularly on oral contraceptives. The Country Party also supports this action. I personally am disappointed that the previous Government did not remove the sales tax from oral contraceptives or, to be consistent, from all types of contraceptives. The removal of the 271 per cent sales tax has reduced the cost per month to an oral contraceptive user by about 20c. I am told that the average cost per month for oral contraceptives was $1.78. This has been reduced to about $1.58. I further understand that negotiations between the Department of Health and manufacturers of contraceptives, in association with the placing of the pill on the pharmaceutical benefits list, have reduced the cost to about $1.38 a month. I also understand that basically the pill is manufactured in Australia and is protected by a 321 per cent general rate tariff and a 171 per cent preferential rate tariff against imported pills. 
I ask the Treasurer if he can say whether the chemical components from which the pill is manufactured, that is the oestrogens and progesterones, which are imported into Australia are subject to a customs or import duty. I think those 2 questions are important because the Government has made the point that it intends to make the pill available as cheaply as is possible to the people in Australia, and that was the reason it was placed on the pharmaceutical benefits list. I hope that the Government believes that it has a responsibility to ensure that in making the pill available as cheaply as possible the taxpayers interests also are protected. I ask: Is there a customs import duty? If so, what is to be done about removing it? Would we be better off importing pills from overseas instead of manufacturing them in Australia and thereby having the high level of tariff protection which operates at the present time? 
The Select Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits looked at the question of placing the pill on the pharmaceutical benefits list but it recommended that the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee should consider the listing of oral contraceptives where required for certain specific medical reasons. It rejected the general placement of the pill on the list. 
I always talk about majority decisions when I talk about recommendations. It also recommended that the Commonwealth provide substantial subsidies for the expansion of family planning clinics. I pose this question to the Treasurer: Would not the cost involved in placing the pill on the pharmaceutical benefits list have better served the community, particularly that section of the community which is being discussed in this House today, if the money had been spent on more family planning clinics and child care centres? I have posed that question for 3 reasons. Firstly, in spite of what some people might think, there is no such thing as unlimited or oceans of money available to spend on whatever we might like to spend it on in this country. Secondly, there has been only a small saving to the users of oral contraceptives, because of the $1 prescription fee. Until 1st April it will be $1. I know that from that date there will be an alteration to the amount to be charged. But until 1st April anybody who wishes to obtain 6 months supply of the pill has to pay $6 in prescription fees - $1 for the initial prescription and $1 each for the 5 repeat prescriptions at monthly intervals. That same person could obtain a private prescription to obtain the pill for a period of 6 months at only slightly greater cost. I know that from 1st April only 3 visits to the pharmacist will be required at a cost of $3. However that is not a dramatic saving. 
The third reason for posing this question is that the availability of contraceptives has not reduced, according to anything I have read or seen, the number of illegitimate births or abortions in any country. Therefore ignorance continues to be one of the great impediments to a more satisfactory solution to the problem of unwanted pregnancies. There is a need for education in this field - and I accept this point - and for family planning clinics. What appears to be far more important in this problem of unwanted pregnancies, unwanted children and abortions, is the moral outlook of the community. I refer to the degree of acceptance and sometimes even applause that is given to moral permissiveness. If we in this Parliament are sincere in our desire for all children to be wanted children and that many young adults, and I presume older adults, and unwanted children are to be spared the miseries of the sort of life that follows some of these mistakes then one of the very important issues must be the moral attitude of the community to the general question of permissiveness. It is not just a simple matter of removing a sales tax. It is not completely a matter of sex education. I would hope that in the removal of this sales tax the members of this Parliament do not overlook the more important question of community attitudes to the matter of moral permissiveness when we are talking about whether or not a particular measure will do away with the miseries of unwanted children, abortions and so on in the future. The Country Party supports the legislation. 
I support the measure before the House which removes the remaining 25c of wine excise. One point which has not been made to any great extent in this debate concerning the wine industry relates to the Australian Wine Board. The wine growers in my area of Rutherglen are not at all happy with the membership of the Board. They had discussions with the previous Minister for Primary Industry to try to have the Board more responsive and the membership of the Board more representative of wine growers than they consider the present Board to be. I hope that the new Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  will seriously consider the question of reconstitution of the Wine Board. 
The main point I want to raise in this debate is that with the removal of the excise on grape wines there will be no tax on grape wines, and because there is no sales tax or excise on wine made from apples, such as apple cider and apple wine, the remaining fruit wines will be left in the invidious position of being the only products which are subject to a 15 per cent sales tax. This places them at a great disadvantage in competing on the fruit wine market. In particular, perry wine is at a disadvantage. Perry wine is made from pears. It is an old and well known wine in Europe and at the present time the market for perry is growing. Another fruit wine made from pears is baby cham. At a time when the pear industry, which is based in the Goulburn Valley is suffering from the problems of over production and there is a need to diversify product outlets one possible part solution is the production of perry. I know that there is a small amount of perry produced in wineries in South Australia but as yet the amount produced is not very substantial. One of the canneries in the Goulburn Valley recently installed at a cost of about $2m a world standard crushing and juicing plant which will provide a base product of suitable standard to produce a range of pear wines. But to promote or establish a market for what is basically a new type of wine is very difficult. That is hard enough at any time but when it also has to overcome a sales tax of 15 per cent while grape wines and apple wines are not subject to sales tax makes the problem so much more difficult. 
Recently I wrote to the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  to the Minister for Primary Industry and to the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby),  because of his interest in the wine industry and in the fruit industry, pointing out this anomaly. I believe it is a genuine anomaly and that no criticism can be levelled either at the present Government or the previous Government. The situation arose because exemption from sales tax of these wines has not been claimed. I received a reply from the Treasurer in today's mail stating that it was one of many requests for exemption from sales tax which the new .Government has received and that in due course its merits will be considered. I ask the Government to consider on its merits the proposal that sales tax on all remaining fruit wines be removed so that all wines will be placed on an equal footing in the struggle to obtain a percentage of the market. I hope that the Government will remove this sales tax because the revenue received from it is minimal - probably less than minimal. Also its removal would help an industry which is experiencing the problem of diversifying its traditional outlets as a result of over production. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment, report adopted. 
The Australian Country Party supports the motion to set up a joint committee on foreign affairs and defence and also welcomes the Government's announcement that the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs which operated under the previous Government will be reestablished and that the scope of the proposed committee, as has been pointed out by other speakers, will be widened to cover defence as well as foreign affairs. Mention has been made that as well as the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  being able to refer matters to the. committee it will be possible by resolution of either House of Parliament for a reference to be made to this committee. This raises immediately an interesting possibility. The Prime Minister, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, has said already that the question of the siting of the Omega station will be referred to this committee. What will happen if the Senate decides by resolution that it considers the question of our relations with the United States of America or perhaps the details of the recognition of Mainland China are more important international matters that this Committee should consider? We would then have a situation in which there would be a reference from the Prime Minister in his role as Minister for Foreign Affairs as well as a reference from the Senate. The Government is to have, a majority of 12 out of 22 members on the committee. Does this mean that every time a reference comes before the committee on the initiative of the Government through the Minister for Foreign Affairs or the Minister for Defence that reference will automatically be. accepted by the majority of members on the committee, who will be Labor members, or will there be a genuine attempt for members of the committee from both sides of the House to play a mutual role? In other words, will resolutions from the Senate or perhaps from within this House be given a chance to be studied and investigated by this committee or will the committee deal only with references such as the Omega one, which is a red herring and which is to be referred to the committee by the Government itself? 
I do not think that the case I have just put is theoretical because the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  already has referred to some considerations of our relations with the United States. I would like to give an example. I refer to an actual case that has already happened since this Government came to power. In January the Federal Tariff Commission of the United States began hearings on the question of the alleged dumping of canned pears in that country. At the same time that the Australian delegate from the Australian Canners Association was giving evidence to that Commission 3 Ministers of the new Government were making antiAmerican statements. Those Ministers are the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and the Minister for Urban Affairs  (Mr Uren).  The final decision by that tariff commission was a very interesting one. Out of the 6 members of the Commission 2 did not vote, 2 voted in favour of putting duties on all future shipments of canned pears to the United States and 2 voted against paying duties. Because of the rules of that body, although no majority decision was reached, because there was a tied vote, in effect all future deliveries of canned pears to that country will be subject to anti-dumping duties even though the case was not proved. This means the end of the market in the United States for this product. It is considered in fruit circles both in Australia and the United States that the attitude of the new Government to the United States, particularly by the 3 Ministers that I have mentioned, at the time when the Commission was conducting its hearings was the cause of this decision against Australia's interests being made by the Commission. I think this is an actual example of the interaction of politics and trade between our country and other countries. 
The Prime Minister when questioned about the Omega station during a Press conference on 13th March- 
In this Parliament last year the fruit growing reconstruction scheme was introduced and passed. It is better known as the tree-pull scheme though in some quarters it has been known as the leg-pull scheme. A very severe financial means test eligibility requirement prevented immediate and successful implementation of this scheme. The means test was eased on 2 separate occasions by the previous Minister for Primary Industry, the Honourable Ian Sinclair, in August and again in October. Some Victorian growers accepted offers to pull trees before December. Then December came and with it a Federal election, a change of government and a new fruit season. This prevented further development of the scheme at the time. Now the fruit season is over again and growers, particularly pear growers, will be looking to the scheme for support especially since the Labor Government's double revaluation of the Australian dollar against the United States dollar and against the South African rand, the currencies of the 2 competitors of the Australian canning fruit industry on international markets. 
What is the position facing the growers? What was the stance which the Labor Party took during the debate on the bill in Parliament last year? What is its performance now? During the debate in this Parliament last year Labor members criticised the means test aspects of the scheme. In fact, they went further. The Labor candidate for the Murray electorate,  Mr John  Riordan, stated during the campaign that the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  had assured him that a Labor Government in office would abolish the means test. The member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  was quoted in the Griffith 'Area News' of 1 6th October as stating: 
The tree pull scheme is inadequate and hopeless if a means test is applied and State debts deducted from any compensation moneys,'  Mr Grassby  declared. 
We will insist that the means test be deleted and that if money is to be made available it should be for the grower to decide what to do with it.' 
Now the Labor Government is in power but absolutely nothing has happened about these promises. Two weeks ago the Federal and State Ministers responsible for reconstruction reviewed the fruit growing reconstruction scheme. The only change to this scheme is the inclusion of apricots as a surplus commodity. This is purely a procedural matter. Where was the promise, where was the purpose, where was the resolve of these fighters for the fruit industry when Labor was in Opposition? The canning fruit industry is facing a life and death struggle because of these revaluations, overseas freight charges and international politics. Once again, what has happened? The previous Government provided loans to the canneries to allow growers to be partially paid for 1972 fruit deliveries pending the final lisation of compensation claims. I am confident that had the previous Government been returned it would have paid to fruit growers approximately SIO a ton compensation for losses caused by the 1971 revaluation, and that there would have been no unilateral revaluation against the US dollar in December 1972, as this Government made. 
Again, what did the Labor Party promise and what has it delivered? The Leader of the Parliamentary Labor Party and now Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was in Griffith on 19th November. I remind honourable members that Griffith is the centre of the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area, the fruit growing area. He is reported in the Griffith Times' of 20th November in this way: 

 Mr Whitlam who took the stand as a leadup to  Mr Grassbys  opening of his campaign for Riverina clarified many issues affecting the rural sector. 
He declared that Labor when elected will make full payment to fruit growers for all fruit delivered within 2 weeks of being elected to Government. 
The 2 weeks has become 100 days and more, and still the Leeton growers have not been paid. What has happened to that promise? I should like to quote from an article which appeared in the Griffith 'Times' on 22nd December and in which the honourable member for Riverina, the Minister for Immigration, quoted what the Prime Minister  ('Mr Whitlam)  said to him. The article reads: 
The Prime Minister gave assurance to  Mr Grassby  that his personal undertaking would be honoured to canning fruit growers in New South Wales who had not been paid for fruit delivered. 
After criticising the previous Government, the Minister for Immigration was further reported as saying: 
Now in three weeks I have an undertaking covering nol only this Government's act but the two revaluations of the previous government - an undertaking the previous government would not give in three years. . . . 
What has happened? No revaluation compensation has been paid to this industry. Instead of revaluation compensation, a once and for ali adjustment assistance grant has been announced. This grant is in 2 parts. One is that canning fruit growers can be paid up to $500 an acre, if they are in extreme financial difficulty and if they have applied and been accepted for the tree pull scheme. But, at the same time, the same Minister and the same Government 2 weeks ago refused to abolish the means test on this scheme so that growers could be accepted for the scheme and be eligible for the $500 an acre grant. I do not think that that scheme will cost the Government very much. 
The Government also said that there wouk be a grant of up to $1,500 per farmer as a once and for all adjustment grant. So far, 2 months after this proposal was announced, the growers still have not been paid and, to my knowledge, the Department of Primary Industry has not even worked out how it will administer this scheme. The canning fruit industry is in considerable trouble. It is not much good anybody saying anything about what the previous Government promised, because my speech tonight has been concentrated wholly and solely on the promises of the Australian Labor Party, its members and its Leader when they were in Opposition and I have shown the lack of performance by this Government since it was elected to office. So, to return to the old arguments of what the previous Minister for Primary Industry said or did not say and what somebody else said or did not say or did or did not do is completely beside the point. The only points that are applicable are what happened to the Prime Minister's promise of immediate payment and what happened to the promise by Labor members that the means test on the fruit growing reconstruction scheme would be abolished. The fruit growers want to hear the answers to these questions; they do not want to hear criticism of any previous government. 
Almost 12 months ago the Social Service'. Bill (No. 3) 1972 was passed by this Parliament. The result of that Bill, when it became law. was to allow the portability of pensions to certain countries when reciprocal pension agreements had been reached with those countries. As has been mentioned, agreements have been reached with Malta, Italy, Greece and Turkey. In addition, we have long standing agreements with the United Kingdom and New Zealand. The major changes that the Bill now before the House will bring about are to abolish the need for reciprocity and to reduce from 20 years to 10 years the basic period of residence. Henceforth the Australian pension will be available to a person who is entitled to receive a pension irrespective of the country to which he wishes to go. If attempts to reach agreements with other countries have been unsuccessful - the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  included in his second reading speech a long list which indicates that this appears to be the case - then I think that this Bill is a necessary and logical development of the Bill which became law 12 months ago. 
Those people who wish to leave Australia for a variety of reasons after making a contribution to this country will receive due justice. However, with the general availability of portability there is a greater chance that this privilege will be abused. When no reciprocal arrangements are required, what checks will be able to be made, say, in regard to a widow who remarries in another country or a person who obtains a pension firstly from Australia and secondly from his country of origin or perhaps even the country in which he originally settled? This is something which concerns me. I hope that the Minister can assure the House that there will be some method of checking to ensure that this privilege which is easily obtainable is not abused. Perhaps the amendment which has been moved by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  will convince the Minister that there is a need to have a greater degree of control than is at present envisaged by this Bill. 1 also wish to add my voice to those raised already by honourable members on this side of the House in stating that there has been no attempt to work out the additional cost that this legislation will create. I hope that the Minister will be able to reply to this when he sums up the debate. Various honourable members on the Government side of the House have criticised the previous Government and honourable members on this side for their attitude in regard to the progress of this Bill. I believe that Government supporters are in no position to criticise anybody in regard to this Bill because when one reads the debates on the Social Services Bill (No. 2) 1972 and the Social Services Bill (No. 3) 1972 one sees some rather incorrect thinking by the then Opposition - now the Government - on this matter. For example, a private members Bill was introduced by the then Leader of the Opposition. It was known as Social Services Bill (No. 2) 1972. That Bill restricted the portability of pensions to Australian citizens. That was the attitude of the Australian Labor Party to the portability of pensions only 12 months ago. If that Bill had become law, more than 300,000 unnaturalised migrants who perhaps wished to return to their homelands would have been denied pension justice. That was the attitude of the Labor Party only 12 months ago, as indicated by the private members Bill introduced by the then Leader of the Opposition. 
When the then Government introduced its Bill through the then Minister for Social Services, the honourable member for Mackellar, the then Leader of the Opposition moved an amendment. The then Leader of the Opposition actually had to amend his amendment half way through that debate because &lt;he sloppy drafting of his original amendment had become apparent. If his original amendment had been accepted, instead of there being a residence requirement of 10 years in certain cases, as he indicated, and virtually no residence required for eligibility to receive an invalid pension or widow's pension, nobody would have been entitled to receive any sort of pension until he or she had been resident in this country for 10 years. Under the then Government's Bill virtually no residence requirement operated in respect of widows, invalids or any of the other groups. I do not think that this Government can really stand up with pride and say that it wants to do the right thing by the migrant population in respect of the portability of pensions, because by its actions it would have restricted the portability of pensions far more than the previous Government's Bill did. I hope that the Bill now before the House was drafted more carefully than the 2 previous pieces of legislation submitted by the Labor Party in regard to this matter, although the amendment moved by the honourable member for Mackellar appears once again to indicate otherwise. 
I support the amendment and, of course, the general proposition that there should be general portability of pensions: but I hope that the greater availability to pension rights to anybody who wishes to leave this country will not lead to abuse of what is a right and privilege for those people. I also hope that by the Government making it easier for people to leave Australia and to take certain rights with them the general pride and dignity in being an Australian and wanting to remain in Australia will not be lessened in any way. As I said earlier, I hope that the Department of Social Security will be able to maintain a check to ensure that, although inevitably there will be some abuse, it does not become too widespread. I support the amendment and the general proposition. 
Previously in the House I and others have referred to the need for a maximum security animal quarantine station and for a diagnostic laboratory. The honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin)  referred to this recently. Developments have taken place at both Norfolk Island and more recently Christmas Island, and I understand that the Public Works Committee will be investigating possible sites for such establishments in the next few months. But if these developments take place they will form only a small part of an overall policy for livestock in this country. I believe that we need a national Livestock policy, and the best way to co-ordinate and develop this policy is to establish a Commonwealth veterinary service. The requirements of the Australian livestock industries and of the countries to which we export animal products insist that to safeguard the future of these industries and exports a national body with overall control is essential. Meat offers the best long term export hope of the livestock industries and of our exports generally. At the present time meat suffers from the confusion of divided Federal government departments and Federal-State control. At the present time Federal authority is split between the Department of Primary Industry and the Department of Health, with the Department of Science involved in research through the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. Overall authority is also divided between Federal and State governments, and at State level some States have divided control between Departments of Agriculture and Health. 
Matters which would come within the compass of a Commonwealth veterinary service are matters such as live animal exports and imports, semen exports and imports, meat inspection and classification, tuberculosis and brucellosis eradication programs, and animal progeny testing schemes. As a general rule I am opposed to increased Federal control, but overseas countries are not interested in our 
Federal-State relationships or in divided Federal departmental control. They want one national authority to contact, one national policy, one body to talk to, someone who can speak for Australia on these matters. 
The meat hygiene inspection requirements of the United States and other countries reveal quite clearly that foreign governments will accept only a national authority. The developing trade in semen imports and exports has confirmed this point. The foreshadowed restrictions by meat importing countries against meat from countries not declared free of tuberculosis and brucellosis will compound our problems in the future unless national control and direction are provided. Because of the importance to Australia of an accelerated and successful eradication scheme the Commonwealth should assume full financial responsibility for the program. I know the program is accelerating, but to beat possible deadlines by these overseas countries I believe it has to be accelerated even more. I think the only way for this to happen is for the Commonwealth to provide the finance, thereby assuming the responsibility. I doubt whether the States would oppose this proposition because of the problems and the cost involved. 
Other advantages of a single national authority such as a Commonwealth veterinary service would be found in relation to meat inspection. At the present time there is confusion on meat inspection between Federal and State inspectors. I hope that one byproduct of a single authority would be a single inspection standard for meat for both home consumption and export. At the present time in some States carcases condemned for export can be sold on the local market. I do not say that Australians are being sold unhygienic meat or unsafe meat, but sooner or later we must adopt a common standard. Another field in which a veterinary service or a bureau of animal health could have a function is in an animal progeny testing scheme. A national beef recording scheme has been initiated. If there is also a beef progeny testing scheme it should be a national one to avoid the confusion of our present dairy progeny testing scheme. If we could only achieve national guidelines and co-ordination with dairy progeny testing I think we could achieve far more than we are at the present time with 3 States trying to do the job and none of them doing it as successfully as it could be done if we co-ordinated with the different breeds. A national meat classification or grading scheme could also be the responsibility of such a body, for the benefit of both the producer and the consumer of meat in Australia. There are possibly other duties for such a bureau or service. However, even if some of those mentioned could come under the control of a national body with a clear national policy it would be a major step in assisting the livestock industries to play their important role in the future of our country. 
asked the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
How many people residing or wishing to reside on farms have applied for a Defence Service Homes loan during the last 3 years. 
How many of these applications have been successful. 
What are the major reasons for rejecting the unsuccessful applications. 
I address a question to the Minister for Social Security. The Minister referred recently to a study his Department is undertaking into anomalies in and possible extension of the domiciliary care benefit, including the parents of children over the age of 16 years who are receiving an invalid pension and needing costly nursing care at home. Win he consider including the parents of handicapped children in the domiciliary care scheme where the children are unable to be accommodated in a special home or institution and are therefore ineligible for any of the forms of assistance under the National Health Act? Does he consider that these parents who are unable to have their children accommodated or who feel it is their duty to care personally for their children are being penalised financially at present and that the extension of the domiciliary care benefit would provide some justice to them? 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
How many Official and Non-official Post Offices are there in each State. 
How many employees, full and part time, are there in Official and Non-official Post Offices. 
What is the wage cost attributable to the postal activity of Official and Non-official Post Offices. 
How much mail, at point of mailing, is handled by Official and Non-official Post Offices. 
When were wage rates and other payments 'to Non-official Pest Offices last increased. 
Are there any claims for increased payments for Non-official Post Office-, presently before this Department. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How many people in the Electoral Divisionof Murray were in receipt of a pension as at 1 May 1973. 
What were the different categories of pension, and how many pensioners were there in each category. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many staff are employed by each of the 27 Ministers in (a) Canberra, (b) the capital city in the State in which the Minister lives, (c) other capital cities and (d) the electorate office in the Minister's electorate. 
Of all people on the Government side of the chamber who should not be saying anything at the present time about creating uncertainty in rural industry it is the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  because he more than anybody else has caused the rural crisis because of the statements which he has made. If there is to be a discussion about actions taken by the previous Government which caused uncertainty let us see what was said previously by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and the honourable member for Riverina who are now so great in defence of the wool growers. When the real crunch was on the wool growing industry in 1971 the honourable member for Dawson said: 
The Australian Wool Commission has panicked because of its failure to bludgeon the wool market into accepting higher prices. Grave fears are now arising that the Commission's activities could wreck the entire foundation of the wool industry. 
The action taken by the previous Government saved the wool industry. If the present Government had been in office at that time it is obvious that it would have chickened out and the wool industry would now have been in ruins. 
We should remember that the most damaging thing that has even been done to the fruit industry has just been done by this Government. If one wants to look for examples of infamy by a Labor government in selling growers short one does not have to look any more at the sale of wheat to New Zealand in 1949 at a price which was under half the international price. 
One has only to look at the direction given by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  to the Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee less than a month ago in which the Minister stated that the Committee which sets the price for canning fruit in this country must reduce its price to growers by $10 a ton for this season. The price had been agreed upon by the industry in January 1973. It is now May 1973 and the Minister has deliberately said: 'Reduce the price by $10 a ton'. This is a direct intervention by the Government to reduce the returns to the growers in this industry who are already suffering penury. At a time of rising prices there is intervention which has never been undertaken before by a government to reduce by 10 per cent the price to be paid to growers. 
The whole position of the fruit industry indicates the uncertainty that is now in primary producers' minds of contradictory statements - the difference between promise and performance - that have been made by this Government and the lavish promises that have been made by some of its supporters. I will give the House some examples. No industry received a higher promise than the fruit industry that, with a new government, the long term problems confronting the industry would be overcome. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  is reported in the Griffith 'Times' of  20  November as saying at Griffith when he was speaking during the general election campaign: 

 Mr Whitlam who took the stand as a leadup to  Mr Grassby's  opening of his campaign for Riverina clarified many issues affecting the rural sector. 
He declared that Labor when elected will make full payment to fruit growers for all fruit delivered within 2 weeks of being elected to Government. 
Those growers are still waiting for the complete payment. What talk has there been since the Government came to power of the statement made in its 'It's Time' booklet that long term stabilisation plans would be provided for the canning fruit industry? This was a promise which was made by the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  and one which would have been carried out if the previous Government had been returned. This is what any industry needs for certainty of planning for the future. 
I refer now to the question of revaluation assistance. We are not talking about floating here and floating there, but about things that this Government has done. There have been  2  deliberate revaluations against the United States dollar since December totalling 18 per cent, the United States being our major competitor in fruit on world markets. When this assistance was finally announced it was not revaluation assistance and the terms of it were a radical departure, from anything this country had ever seen in the field of compensation. Instead of growers being paid for each ton of fruit produced the Government placed a limit of  $1,500  on each grower. This completely overlooks the fact that there are high fixed costs in the production of fruit and that those costs will rise as production increases. We have here a complete departure from the, accepted principles which have been followed in recent times. The Government talks about what has been done in consultation with growers but one has only to remember that growers were not even consulted on this point. 
To return to the real bombshell to the fruit industry in the announcement, that is, the instruction to canners to reduce their prices by  $10  a ton. This was included in a Press release by the Minister for Primary Industry on  4  May. This carries with it 3 very serious and damaging implications to primary industry which add to their uncertainty for the future. Firstly, here is a Government which is prepared deliberately to reduce the price of a commodity to a farmer when that price has been agreed to by those people who have been appointed to set prices. Secondly, this move lets the Government off the hook on the question of revaluation because the statement indicates, as I understand from a letter that has been sent throughout the industry, that because of dropping prices, particularly if there is a good fruit season in northern Europe, the price for canned fruit will drop. Coupled with the fact that our currency has now risen so much following action by this Government, any claim for revaluation compensation by the industry will be rejected because the Government can say: 'Here is the price. It is  $10  a ton less than it should be, but there is no need to worry about this extra  $10  because the canners have paid all that they are required to pay'. The Government forced the canners to reduce their price by  $10  a ton. What sort of certainty for the future does that action provide not only for the fruit industry but also for other industries? 
One of the ironies of the whole business is that with the revaluation assistance pegged at  $1,500  per grower, cutting out at a maximum production of  125  tons of fruit per grower, the Government is giving with one hand and taking away with the other. The average fruit grower in the Goulburn Valley produces more than that amount and the Goulburn Valley produces  70  per cent of Australia's canned fruit so do not let us get carried away with other areas. The Government is saying on the one hand: 'Here is  $1,500  because our revaluation policy has hurt you', but is saying on the other hand: We intend to cut the price paid to you by  $10  a ton'. The average grower will lose money because of that, and he will receive no assistance from the Government. In fact, he will be penalised. The third point arising from the Government's announcement was the means test applied to the tree pull scheme. There was a lot of talk about this when the present Government was in Opposition. The present Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby),  the honourable member for Riverina, is reported as follows in the Griffith Area News' of 1 6 October: 
The tree pull scheme is inadequate and hopeless if a means test is applied and State debts deducted from any compensation moneys,'  Mr Grassby  declared. 
We will insist that the means test be deleted and that if money is to be made available it should be for the grower to decide what to do with it.' 
Since this Government came to power there has been a meeting of the Ministers involved with this scheme. No change has taken place in respect of that industry reconstruction scheme. In the meantime many fruit growers were lulled into the false belief that things would be changed if a new government came to power. They kept on growing fruit and are consequently now in a worse position. 
What about the dairying industry? There is complete uncertainty in the dairying industry because of statements made by the Minister for Primary Industry about what he might do, what he might impose on the industry. We have the new season starting on 1 July but there has been no statement by the Minister on what the policy will be. I sincerely hope that the Government will provide some certainty by allowing the situation which was set up by the previous Government and in view of the good markets available at the present time, to continue without restriction. I hope also that the $27m guarantee across the board will continue with none of these new dangerous ideas which have been introduced into the fruit industry. What of margarine quotas? In the statement made after the Australian Agricultural Council meeting on 6 February the Minister for Primary Industry said: 
A separate quota for the Australian Capital Territory was discussed and this matter will be raised again at the next meeting of the Council in July. 
I emphasise 'in July'. Yet here we have, in May, the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  setting up his own private little monopoly for margarine in the Australian Capital Territory in the form of a company, Marrickville Margarine Pty Ltd, which was widely rumoured to have financed the midyear campaign of the Labor Party prior to the 1969 election. One could go on for hours dealing with uncertainties that have been created whether by way of threats to the meat industry, protection commissions, demolition squads, taxation concessions, further revaluations by the Government or producer membership on marketing boards. The real crunch of uncertainty lies in what this Government will do about stabilisation in wheat, dairying, wool marketing and fruit. There is complete confusion and uncertainty among producers because of different statements by different Ministers who have no real knowledge or empathy of the great rural industries of Australia. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Defence. The Victorian State  President  of the Returned Services League was reported in the Melbourne 'Sun' of 15 January as saying that the Minister for Defence, prior to the election and when he was  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and spokesman on defence and repatriation matters, had informed the  President  of the British subbranch of the Returned Servicemen's League that if elected the Australian Labor Party would amend the appropriate Act to provide war service homes loans for British exservicemen resident in Australia. I ask the Minister: Did he make such a promise in writing to the  President  of the British sub-branch of the Returned Servicemen's League prior to the election and, if he did, when will eligibility be extended to this group? 
asked the Minister for Housing,  upon notice: (1) How many people residing or wishing to reside on farms have applied for a Home Savings Grant since the inception of the Scheme. 
How many applications have been successful. 
What are the major reasons for rejecting the unsuccessful applications. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
How much will the recent national wage case decision add to the national wage bill. 
What percentage increase will this be. 
How much of this additional wage bill will be recovered by increased income tax. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Environment and Conservation. No mention was made of the national water sources development program in the Budget. Will the Government continue this program and provide additional capital for it? Will finance be made available to overcome pollution problems in the Murray River from the AlburyWodonga growth area and from salinity? 
I hope that what we have just witnessed will be the exception rather than the rule. What we have just seen seems rather strange after all the pure statements we have heard about what the Government would do in regard to giving time for everybody to put his point of view. 
Last night the honourable member for Angus  (Mr Giles)  and the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  spoke about the removal of the exemption from sales tax on non-alcoholic carbonated beverages containing not less than 5 per cent of Australian fruit juice. The removal of the incentive for soft drink manufacturers to include fruit juice in their product puts in jeopardy outlets for approximately 50,000 tons of apples and 15,000 tons of citrus, and a market which is building up to 15,000 tons of pears. This is a significant amount of fruit, a significant percentage of the total Australian fruit production. This Budget decision comes at a time when the market outlets for fruit are being jolted by increasing freight rates and increasing European Economic Community levies. Reports come in that processors in Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, Tasmania and South Australia have abruptly cancelled all future orders. Processors are left with large amounts of concentrate for which they now have no market. An article on page 2 of today's Hobart 'Mercury' reports the possible dumping of one million bushels of apples next season. That is 15 to 17 per cent of the Tasmanian apple crop. Telegrams from the Australian Apple and Pear Growers Association and from other grower associations have been sent to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriest).  But the Minister, in replying to a question asked by  Senator Louche  yesterday, had a different opinion. He said: 
I question the suggestion in the honourable senator's remarks that this will have a marked effect on the manufacturers and also on the growers. He asked me specifically what the Government intends to do. The Treasurer spelt out quite clearly in the Budget Speech last night that any problems which arose for the growers or the industry as a result of this decision would be looked at as favourably as has been the case with other restructuring problems in the fruit industry. 
That is a grim warning for the fruit industry, if it is expected to be only as favourable as the fruit grower reconstruction scheme has so far been. 
The Minister for Primary Industry and the Treasurer &lt;Mr Crean) both had a different view as to what would be provided for those hurt in the fruit industry from that of  Dr Coombs'  demolition squad when it made its report. That report states: 
If so, this would suggest that the concession may be an inefficient substitute for more rational schemes of both 'minimum income' . . . and for appropriate industry reconstruction schemes. 
By the time  Dr Coombs'  report had reached the Treasurer and the Minister for Primary Industry, all suggestion of a minimum income had been dropped. That was a most valuable suggestion because we see that, in the United States a minimum income agricultural policy has just been passed through the Congress of that country. A minimum income policy certainly would be of value to the industry. But these people are ignorant of what happens. If it meant that IS per cent of those in the industry could receive compensation for leaving it, that might not be so bad, but this does not happen. It means that all growers in the industry will have their already depleted incomes reduced even further. Very few apple growers, particularly in Tasmania, would be receiving even the basic wage at the present time. 
In the Goulburn Valley pears for juicing form a most valuable addition to growers returns because off-sized pears - those that have already been picked and graded out as off-size for canning - can be used for juicing at no extra cost to the grower. This additional income is most valuable. The fruit industry has been told time and time again that it must diversify, that it must obtain new markets and get away from this tradition of canning everything. Already the fruit industry has done this. It has spent millions of dollars on world standard processing equipment in order to diversify. But what has happened? The industry has been kicked in its adam's apple for doing it because it took seriously this advice to diversify. 
We shall also look at what the honourable member for Robertson had to say on this question of compensation. We have the Coombs' report saying that there should be a minimum income. We have the Treasurer saying that there should be reconstruction. The Minister for Primary Industry, in the answer to which I referred previously, said: 
There will be an Increase in expenditure from Sim last year to $4m this year: I suppose that In a simple mathematical way one could say that one cancels out the other. 
I have looked through the Budget documents. I have looked under the 'heading 'fruit industry' to find reference to payments to industry. I find that payments to the fruit industry this year are down by $500,000. Although we find that payments will be down by $500,000, we must remember that some phoney accounts are being used for the industry. Growers payments are included as Government payments and transfer payments to and from the Reserve Bank are included as advances to industry. It is interesting to note that fruit industry grower research and promotion levies are included. We have an interesting figure of $2m for fruit growing reconstruction when last year only $400,000 could be spent because both the previous Government and this Government have refused to set down criteria that will allow the scheme to succeed. These are fond hopes. The honourable member for Robertson went off on another tack and said: 
I understand that the amount of money set aside will be approximately the sum that normally would have finished up with fruit growers; that is about $5m. It will be put aside to assist fruit growers so that they will receive the same amount of money as before. 
I think it is time, with all these contradictory statements, that the processing section of the fruit industry was told by somebody in authority what the Government is actually going to do to help it - whether there will be some sort of compensation fund, whether there will be a minimum income or whether there will be just ordinary fruit reconstruction. If there is to be ordinary fruit reconstruction, the criteria will have to be widened if the scheme is to be a success. 
I ask the Government to reconsider its decision to abolish this incentive to include fruit juices in cordials. If the Government will not reconsider this decision because of its sudden death nature, it should do one of 3 things. It should postpone the introduction of this proposal for 12 months or it should do as was suggested to me in a rather long telegram from the northern Victorian fruit growers, and that is, to introduce a double rate sales tax - say, 10 per cent if fruit juice is included and 25 per cent if it is not included. In this way the Government's income would be increased but there would still be an incentive to use fruit juice. The second proposition submitted by the fruit growers' was that the exemption should be phased out over 3 years so that growers and processors have time to adjust. 
There is a very interesting series of contradictions, because one of the curious omissions from the Coombs' report is reference to the fact that income is foregone by sales tax exemption on grape wine and apple wine but sales tax is still imposed on other fruit wines. This is an injustice to the pear industry which I had hoped would have been rectified in this Budget. As a result of this action, children's soft drinks will bear a rate of sales tax of 15 per cent but adults' wine, whether it is apple or grape, will be free of sales tax. That does not appear to me to be socially just or desirable. 
I do not have time to develop the other contradiction, and that is something that would not cost the Government any money if it abolished it. I refer to abolishing sales tax altogether on all fruit wines so that all other fruits can be put on the same basis as apples and grapes. But I return to this point about sales tax exemption if fruit juice is included. The Government should forget about the proposal, postpone it for 12 months, bring in a double rate of sales tax so that the incentive is still there to use fruit juice or phase it out over 3 years and give the industry a reasonable time in which to adjust instead of having the sudden death nature of the proposal. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
How many people in the Electoral Division of Murray were in receipt of each category of repatriation pension as at 1 May 1973. 
This debate on the parliamentary committee system probably represents the only time that the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  is sorry that he is not a member of the Opposition because 1 believe that he would dearly love to send up the proposition we are debating. He even had to reassure himself that he was serious. He had to say: 'lt is in all good faith that I submit the motion to the House.' if W. S. Gilbert was alive today 'Iolanthe' would be vastly improved by the example of the present Labor Government. One of the sub-titles to 'Iolanthe' is 'The Peer and the Peri'. I think that today W. S. Gilbert would substitute for that sub-title The Commissar and the Committees'. In speaking to his motion the Leader of the House stated: 
Sittings of the House interfere with committee meetings. 
That is something the same as saying that work interferes with leisure. One should consider what has the most important function - the House or all the appendages of the House. The Minister also talked about the possibility of altering procedure for calls for quorums, calls for divisions, etc., so that committees may meet while Parliament is in session. In Act II of 'Iolanthe', when Private Willis was on sentry duty outside Parliament House at Westminster, W. S. Gilbert had him sing: 
When in that House M.P.'s divide, 
If they've a brain and cerebellum, too, 
They/ve got to leave that brain outside, 
And vote just as their leaders tell 'em to. 
Perhaps if W. S. Gilbert were alive today he would write: 
When in that House M.P.'s divide, 
If there are any not on a committee, 
There will be insufficient to decide 
What they debate. Ah, what a pity. 
According to the estimate of the Leader of the House there are 14 House of Representatives committees and 24 Senate committees at the present time. It is agreed by all that these committees have insufficient time to do their committee work properly. There is no need for a special committee to be set up to find that out. There is also no need for a committee to establish what we all know, that is that as a result of the extended times introduced by the Leader of the House the effective time for committees has been substantially reduced. I think it is rather naive to say that perhaps some of the present sitting time of the Parliament could be used for committees because if that were the case why would the Leader of the House be so eager to have extended sitting times and also be eager to move the gag as we proceed with debates? 
If the extended sitting times have been introduced to allow adequate time for debate - and I would question this in view of the way the House is operating - then this surely :s contradictory to the proposal to set up this committee. Now more than ever if committees are going to be allowed to meet while the House is in session - and it has been suggested that this is possibly one of the recommendations this committee will make - then members of committees will be more ignorant than ever of what is actually going on in the House and of the way to vote when they return to the House, if they do return. 
I think W. S. Gilbert would also delight in the actions of the Attorney-General (Senator Murphy) in the present Government who when in Opposition was a most vociferous supporter of the worth of the committee system but who when he became AttorneyGeneral did not bother to wait for reports from the committee on wildlife and the committee on divorce regulations before introducing alterations in these fields. He was the one who was saying that we should always have these reports before us. I think also that Northcote Parkinson would be smiling at what is happening. He would be smiling at the proliferation of committees, of which this proposal obviously would be a suitable crowning achievement in that this proposed committee will even be able to set up subcommittees. He would also smile at the compound growth rate of the personal staff attached to various Ministers, of all the task forces being created and of the growth of the Public Service generally. 
I believe it is time to say to this Government: Stop hiding behind the reports of task forces and special committees that have been set up with the one aim or one role of recommending Labor policy, and stop using these committees and task forces to create the fictions that the Government is only implementing the neutral, disinterested and expert views or recommendations of these groups. The Country Party does not oppose this proposal but it believes that the Leader of the House and the Government generally can do far more for the committee system and for Parliament by allowing adequate time for those committees which are at present constituted. 
This will not be the first time that the term '2 nations' has been used in politics, but I believe that it aptly describes this Budget. This is a 2-nations Budget framed as though there are 2 standards of social justice and social equity in this country - one for those who live in the metropolitan cities and one for the one-third of all Australians who live outside the metropolitan cities. It is unjust for 3 main reasons. The first is that it adds to the cost burden of country people. By 'country people' I mean country people in general. Petrol forms an integral part of freight costs confronting them, and freight is added to the cost of most items that country people have to buy. Telephone and postal services are essential to them, but the charges for these services will be increased also. One should remember that in the country there is probably a higher percentage of low wage earners than in the capital cities. A great number of workers in country cities and towns are earning just the basic wage. Approximately one-third of the dairy farmers of Australia, as well as other farmers, are receiving less than the basic wage. Yet they are to be saddled with this added cost burden. 
I shall mention some other interesting examples of added burdens. For example, pensioners in country towns will have their telephone rentals increased, in some cases by 100 per cent. The Budget gives notice of the establishment of community health centres which supposedly and hopefully will help people, but so many things that are supposedly for all of Australia never seem to get through to the country cities and towns. One adverse effect that the development of community health centres or medical centres could have is that even fewer general practitioners and medical services could be available in many country communities. Another aspect of the Budget is the increase in regional social service offices. I hope this is not just for the metropolitan areas, because one of the problems in the country areas is the distance of many people from the closest office. I live in a fairly intensely settled rural electorate, but there are people who live 50 and 60 miles from the nearest office, and the people who are the least able to travel and the least able to afford the trunk call that is required to make contact with the social service office are the people who need the advice and the assistance of that office - the widows, the elderly, the invalids and the unemployed. 
The second area of injustice is that the much publicised assistance for decentralisation and for local government that would help country areas - the promises were made during the election campaign and since - is nonexistent in this Budget. The Government is to make a loan at 7 per cent for the AlburyWodonga growth complex. Apart from the contradiction of our Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  being a low interest man, of what use is a loan that has to be repaid? One can quote time after time from statements made by Government supporters when they were in Opposition about the incorrect financing of the Commonwealth in providing loan money rather than grant money to the State's and local government. I agreed with them. But what is the Government doing now? It is providing loan money as its only contribution to decentralisation. 
Many local government bodies have been led to believe that the Government will provide them with a new source of revenue through the Commonwealth Grants Commission. However, this money will not be available to local governments for general revenue purposes. It will be available only after all other avenues of revenue have been exhausted and an example of facilities less than the average can be shown. I ask whether any study was made by the Grants Commission of the western suburbs of Melbourne and Sydney which are to receive $8m in this Budget. I challenge the Government to prove that they are the most deprived regions of Australia and as such should receive or need assistance. Is this assistance to be in the form of grant money or loan money? If it is grant money, why does the Government have 2 standards of justice - one for the industrial suburbs of Melbourne and Sydney and another one for Albury-Wodonga and other complexes? If it is to be loan money the Government will not be helping these regions at all because the greatest burden that both State government and local government have is the repayment of debts and loans. All that this Government will do by providing more loans will be to increase this debt problem. 
Transport, is a problem for country people. Where are the great promises of assistance for interstate highway and railway transport that one heard before the election? There is nothing. The Budget outlines assistance only for suburban transport. Many country people are becoming more and more concerned about what will happen to the Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement when it is renegotiated next year. They are fearful that at the time this Government will reduce the amount of money available for country roads. The problems of transport represent a great cost to country people. Communication charges are another cost, particularly to business people in country cities. What has happened to the lavish promises of many Labor would-be politicians and politicians that trunk call charges would be reduced? What has happened to the election policy statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)?  He said: 
Our first help for State programs will be to implement, for all States, the recommendation of the Victorian Decentralisation Committee that 'centres nominated for accelerated development be recognised for telephone charging purposes as extensions of the metropolitan area whereby rentals would be equated and calls between these places and the capital charged as for local calls'. 
If rentals for telephones in country cities and farms are to be increased, as they have been dramatically, surely justice requires that an extension of the local call charge area should be made because the people in the metropolitan areas can do all their business - I am referring here to the average businessman - at a local call rate. But this is never so in a country area, particularly if one is a businessman. 
The third area of injustice in this '2 nations' Budget concerns the primary producer, who has been singled out for special savage attention. If there is any moral in this Budget it is that the electors of Dawson, Riverina, Eden-Monaro, Hume and Wide Bay must realise now how ineffectual their representatives in this Parliament are and that all of their protestations and promises are absolutely useless. We have a very interesting example of this in the Dartmouth situation. I would like to quote an article which concerns the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  and which appeared in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of August 1971. The article stated: 
An 'anti-irrigation, anti-development' lobby was campaigning for the abandonment of the Colleambally irrigation development in New South Wales,  Mr Al  Grassby has warned. 

 Mr Grassby, the Labor MP for Riverina, said the lobby wanted all the water from New South Wales's Blowering Dam used in South Australia. 
It also wanted the construction of the $60m Dartmouth Dam in Victoria abandoned, he said. 
Well, at last we have the moment of truth. This 'anti-irrigation, anti-development' lobby is none other than the Prime Minister himself. Surprise, surprise! So despite all of this great screaming about people who are not sympathetic to rural needs, we need look no further - and the honourable member for Riverina need look no further - than the man who is right here and out in the centre, the Prime Minister of Australia. 
The concessions to primary producers which have been largely wiped out in this Budget encouraged improved farming practices. They also provided some sustenance to farmers during poorer times and have resulted in the great achievement that even today food prices in Australia in terms of a percentage of average weekly income are cheaper than in any other country. It is all very well for someone to say: 'What about the high food prices today?' But what did we hear from these people when lamb and other food products were being given away? I believe that a person can justifiably stand up and say that high food prices should be pegged only if he stood up when prices were at give-away levels and said that these prices were too low and that we had to do something to increase them. 
There are some curious situations in the Coombs report and in the Budget on sales tax anomalies. The removal of the exemption from sales tax of fruit juices which is used in soft drink is one. As a result children now have to pay more for soft drinks. People can argue that Coca-cola or some other soft drink might not be much good for children. But I would prefer to see children encouraged to drink soft drinks that some other liquids. The Coombs report and the Budget make no mention of some other curious anomalies. For example, all apple and grape wines are exempted from sale tax but other fruit wines are subject to a 15 per cent sales tax. Here is an area that should have been dealt with by  Dr Coombs,  if he was fair dinkum. 
To put it in another way - and I hoped that the Government would have seen it in this light - if it is fair and just for there to be no sales tax on grape and apple wine, why should other fruit wines be taxed? The pear industry in its move towards diversification would have been considerably assisted in the development of perri, baby chams and pear alcohols generally by the removal of this sales tax. The industry has no hope of developing its market while it has to pay a sales tax of IS per cent when the other industries do not. It would not cost the Government anything because it does not collect money from this source anyway. 
One other feature of the Government's Budget is its phony accounting. Firstly I refer to the phoney accounting in assistance to rural industry. According to the Budget Papers assistance to rural industry is up $56m. But if we look a little closer we will see that the accounts for rural industry this year include for the first time transfer payments of $77m between the Australian Wheat Board, the Australian Wool Board and the Reserve Bank of Australia. These are transfer payments that are pay-outs on one occasion and pay-backs on another. They have nothing to do with assistance to rural industry in the sense of some grant or concession. So there is S77m less to start with. 
Promotion levies are included for the first time in this Budget. Farmers themselves put up the money for these promotion levies, not the Government. The $20m for rural credit that was included in the Budget was put forward by the previous Government in its Budget of 12 months ago, not by this Government. An amount of $47m is to be provided this year for rural reconstruction. But $15m of that was put forward by the previous Government when it was in office. So instead of having an increase of $56m there is a considerable decrease. This ls apart from the fact that the loss of concessions, telephone charges and so on to farmers will amount to at least $150m this year. Apart from the loss of concessions and the phoney accounting rural people, who in the main are deriving higher incomes, will be paying at least 50 per cent more tax because of the double problem of ordinary tax and provisional tax. It is fair enough that country people should pay the same tax of anybody else. But country people will be in for a real shock when they start to fill in their next year's income tax returns. I hope that that shock comes about at the same time as an election. 
The phoney accounting continues, as other speakers have pointed out, in education because the true increase is not $404m but $260m. As the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  pointed out last week, this is still a welcome lift. I say also that it is a welcome lift. But apart from aspects contained in the Karmel report, basically all the other increased expenditure had also been promised by the previous Government in its policy speech following acceptance of certain reports. If the LiberalCountry Party Government had remained in office I believe that much the same lift in education would have taken place. Once again the problem arises of how much will get through to the country areas. This problem occurs also with special features of social security and health expenditure. It never seems to get through. I hope that in the case of education it will be different. 
I deplore the breaking of a pre-election promise by the Prime Minister that existing aid to independent schools would not be' reduced. This was referred to by the honourable member for Wannon last week. If aid is to be provided for non-government schools it can be justified only on a per capita basis. I believe that it can be justified in the sense that it is a per capita saving to the government system and is providing a democratic choice to parents. One of the greatest dangers facing democracy in this country is a centralised and monopolistic education system. The new arrangements following the Karmel report discriminate against parents because there is no correlation between the wealth of a parent and the school that his child attends. There has been no means test of the parents, only of schools. If a needs test is to be applied to grants for independent schools, I believe that it can be justified if it is applied to capital grants only. If there is any difference between a well endowed or so-called elite school and an ordinary non-government school it is in the provision of buildings and other capital facilities, not in the children who attend those schools. 
I welcome the announcement by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  that the grant for tourist attractions of an Australian nature introduced by the previous Government will be extended this year. Again I congratulate the Government for this action as it is a most worthwhile venture. But when will some form of special benefit be provided for the parents of handicapped children who cannot send their children away to a special home? When will such a benefit be introduced? I believe that this group of people is now the most financially and socially disadvantaged in our society. I was hopeful that something would be included in the Budget for these people, but it is not. I hope that the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  will soon introduce a special benefit of that nature. 
The Government has not mentioned in the Budget its intentions in respect of donations for voluntary foreign aid organisations. Many people believed, rightly or wrongly, that the Government would make donations to voluntary agencies tax deductible, or matching donations would be made by the Government, or that both would happen. So far the Government has been very quiet on this subject although Budget time is when this sort of change must be stated if anything is to happen. All the supporters of voluntary agencies in Australia giving foreign aid are questioning the bona fides of the Government in this matter. 
Another feature of the Budget is the question that must arise regarding centralism and State socialism. After the Budget is there any area in which State governments have unfettered control, including those areas which the Constitution has stated or implied are within the administration of the State governments? Is there anything left in which the Federal Government does not have a finger and cannot tell the States what to do? Why should taxpayers' money be used to build a pipeline? If one believes reports in today's newspapers, the taxpayers' money is to be used even for a car factory for the production of a people's car when it can be built cheaper and the facility run more efficiently by private enterprise at no cost to the taxpayers. The Government could still control the price and the end use of the product by regulation. 
I believe that there is a warning to the Government in the Budget. Many people voted for Labor for the first time last December. Many middle class people and pensioners have received a great shock from the Budget. Pensions are barely keeping up with inflation, let alone rising to 25 per cent of the average income. Many pensioners who receive part pensions will probably now be worse off because their pensions will be taxable. The Coombs document, which is very selective in what it singles out for criticism, should be studied particularly by middle class people. They should read what the future holds, what  shocks are in store for them next year. For the same group of middle class people personal taxes this year will increase by more than the average increase of 27 per cent. 
Good examples were given last night by the Leader of the Opposition. The increase in the price of petrol must also be met. These people turned last December to Labor. When the effect of the Budget is felt I am confident that they will turn again and replace the Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
How many applications have been received by each of the State authorities for each category of the Fruitgrowing Industry Reconstruction Scheme. 
How many applications are still pending. 
In how many cases has there been (a) acceptance, or (b) rejection by growers. 
How many acres of (a) peach, and (b) pear trees have been removed under the Scheme. 
What sum has the Government paid to growers to date. 
What is the average price per acre paid to growers in each category in each State. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that no mention is made of Australia's aid to Bangladesh in the Budget document on external aid. 
If so, what sum does the Government intend to provide to Bangladesh, and for what purposes, during 1973-74. 
What sum has been granted to Bangladesh since it gained independence, for what purposes, and when were the respective decisions made. 
This social service legislation is the largest single item of Government expenditure. It involves $l,874m, which is almost 20 per cent of the Budget. Yet this legislation was introduced only on Tuesday. Other social service legislation was introduced before that. We have had only today to look at it, including the new taxation provisions, and we are now having a restricted debate on it. I think that shows up the attitude of this Government to such an important piece of legislation. The Australian Country Party supports it and in supporting it I should like to remind the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  that the Country Party was also in the last Government and that the  Chairman  of the Joint Social Services Committee was the Country Party member for Hume who worked hard for the abolition of the means test. 
The Country Party welcomes the new measures for orphans and the blind announced in the Budget and carried on in this legislation. It also welcomes the development and progress in rehabilitation procedures and measures. I think that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Hayden)  recently mentioned that a more positive role would be taken in rehabilitation in that employment would be sought for people being assisted. I hope he said that. If he did not I hope he will look at the matter because I know of several instances of people who have been rehabilitated but who have found problems in obtaining employment and who seemed to receive very little encouragement from the rehabilitation people to help them find employment. 
The basic increase of $1.50 in the pension is insufficient in the inflationary situation facing Australia today. I think that a more realistic figure would have been $2, if the pensioner is to stay ahead of inflation and if there is to be any realistic move towards the Government's stated policy of having pensions equal to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. Pensions and welfare are relative. The weekly pension figure tells only half the story of the welfare of a pensioner. The other half of the story is the cost of living. Inflation is the pensioner's worst enemy. This Government can huff and puff all day about what it intends to do or is doing to help the pensioner; but unless it can restrict the inflation rate the pensioner will be progressively worse off all the time. It is not much good honourable members on the Government side saying that in 1963 pensions were increased by a certain figure and that in 1973 they were increased by a larger figure. One also has to look at the inflation rate on both occasions. 
I still object to the adult unemployment benefit rate being paid to junior unemployed. This was one of the measures of the new Government. I object particularly now to juniors - 16, 17 and 18-year-olds - being paid the adult rate when we have a situation of, if anything, overfull employment and inflation - the nation's greatest problem - and when every able bodied young man who can work should be encouraged to work and not given an easy way out if he is so inclined. 
The supplementary assistance benefits still fall short of what they should be. We have rent supplementary assistance, but there is no rates supplementary assistance. I know that some of the States do provide some rates assistance and that Victoria, in the State Budget which was announced the other night, has joined those States. However, many families which have a house to be paid off, as well as rates to be paid, when the breadwinner dies, are as impoverished as anybody. Yet they receive no assistance at all. Because they have tried to be good Australians and to buy their own houses, they are penalised. The Australian Government could justifiably - I think that the States would welcome it - take over the responsibility for rates assistance as well as rent assistance. 
With the various provisions for assistance to people such as unmarried mothers and widows, we are rapidly reaching the stage where the Government must look seriously at some proposition to assist those mothers who do not qualify for any form of assistance but who prefer to stay home and rear their young families in the best manner possible - that is, by being with the children at home - instead of chasing financial gain by going out to work. These people are putting their children first. Their husbands are possibly only on the basic wage or a little more. 
The major item in this legislation is the abolition of the means test for those who are 75 years and over. The Country Party supports the abolition of the means test, as it did when in government with the Liberal Party. This policy was announced jointly before and during the last election campaign. As far as I am concerned, the sooner the means test goes the better, because it will provide an incentive for people to help themselves and to retain an interest in life if they can do some work after they reach retiring age and not be penalised for doing so. Also abolition of the means test will do away with the injustice of the 10 per cent notional return on the property or assets side of the tapered means test scale, which I believe is unjust to many people who have no hope of earning 10 per cent on their assets. The previous government, if it had been returned to office, would have done at least as much toward the abolition of the means test for those who are 75 years and over. I agree with taxing pensions when the means test is abolished. But this Government at no stage said that it would tax pensions paid to those between 65 and 75 years or would remove the taxation concessional allowance for those in that age category. This is a sleight of hand or confidence trick by the Government and will create an injustice for many people. 
I do not think that in previous debates when the Government was in Opposition it said that there was anything wrong with the age allowance. I do not think it ever said that it was right to tax the pension when the means test applied. It seems rather incongruous, if, as has been stated, next year the means test will be abolished for those who are 70 years and over, that it is right to tax their pension this year but according to the Government's own intention it will be wrong to do it next year. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  provided some notes on the new taxation arrangements and how they will affect people. On page 4 of those notes he provided a chart. I seek leave 

<graphic href="085131197309130_79_1.jpg"></graphic>

to have incorporated in Hansard a chart which I have prepared from basic figures obtained from Treasury officers and which shows the position more accurately. I have shown it to the Minister for Social Security and he agrees to its incorporation. 

<graphic href="085131197309130_79_1.jpg"></graphic>

The chart that I have prepared refers to those on non-pension incomes of $1,000, $1,500, $2,000, $3,000 and $4,000. The chart also provides 4 other columns. It refers to net disposable income, which is the income available to the person after tax has been paid on his total income; the tax paid by those in receipt of the age allowance but with no tax on the pension; the net disposable income if both the first two provisions are still prevailing; and finally the net disposable incomes for persons on 2 different tax rates. The chart produces some rather interesting results. For example, on the married scale a person receiving income of $1,500 plus pension will receive $2,556, but he is $169 worse off because of the provisions in this Budget. A person with income of $2,000 and in receipt of a pension is $349 worse off because of the introduction of the tax on pensions and the disallowance of the age concession. A person with income of $3,000 and in receipt of a pension is $358 worse off. A person with income of $4,000 and in receipt of a pension is $158 worse off. I thing it is quite legitimate that a person with income of $4,000 should not be receiving the benefit that those on the lower figure receive. For a person with a higher total income the reduction would be less because the concessional tax allowance for age people under the previous Government cut out at between $3,500 and $3,800. 
I return to these 3 important figures: A married person with income of $1,500 a year is $169 worse off; with income of $2,000 a year he is $349 worse off; and with income of $3,000 a year he is $358 worse off. These are not wealthy people. They are ordinary people who possibly have saved to try to be a little better off in their retirement. There is a considerable number of them. These people have been hoodwinked by this Government. I agree completely with the honourable member for Mackellar when he says that more will be said on this matter when the relevant income tax Bill is introduced. I believe that the wrath of these people will be turned on this Government when they wake up to what has happened to them. Perhaps it will take a little time, but it surely will happen because in a way they have been asked to pay for the abolition of the means test in respect of those who are 75 years and over by the reduction in their net pension. The Country Party supports the legislation, but draws attention to the unjust and iniquitous provisions for those between 65 and 75 years who have been unjustly treated in the new social security provisions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Will cream suppliers suffer greater hardship than wholemilk suppliers of manufacturing milk as a result of the phasing out of the dairy industry bounty; if so, will the Government introduce a scheme to assist cream suppliers to change to wholemilk. 
Will the phasing out of the dairy industry bounty increase the pressure from certain quarters to end equalisation; if so, will the Government proclaim the legislation on compulsory equalisation so that this cornerstone of a stable Australian dairy industry will be maintained. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
Can the Minister say who are the principals of Reporter Newspaper Co. and Young Witness Pty Ltd., publishers and printers of 'New Legislation of the Australian Parliament'. 
What arrangement has been made by the Government with these people in respect of material for the publication. 
Does the Government provide financial, editorial or other assistance. 
Does the Government or the publisher intend to include comment on legislation from Opposition spokesmen. 
The Country Party supports the 3 Bills before the House. We generally agree with the provisions. I will not weary the House by making lengthy comment which would only be repeating what has been said earlier this evening. I will not discuss the Delivered Meals Subsidy Bill at all because my colleague, the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh),  will be speaking on that Bill later. I will restrict my comments to the Aged Persons Homes Bill and the States Grants (Home Care) Bill. During my comments I wish to put several questions to the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden). 
The Minister, in his second reading speech, stated that a reassessment of the aged persons homes program is being undertaken at the moment by the National Commission on Social Welfare and pending the receipt of the Commission's report no major changes are contemplated. Repeating what was said by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  and the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson),  I hope that the Minister does not wait for this report before updating the Commonwealth contribution to the per bed limit which at present stands at S5,200 or a total allocation of $7,800 plus $250 for furniture. This contribution ceiling has not been altered since February 1972. I think we all would agree that with all the inflation in Australia, whether it is the fault of the last Government or the fault of this Government, building costs probably have been the most inflationary. 1 have received a number of requests and complaints from organisations in my electorate saying that they just cannot meet the ceiling which at present is imposed and that raising the additional finance is quite a problem to them. 
Recently I received a letter from the Numurkah Pioneer Memorial Lodge in which it asked me to put certain matters to the Minister. I now put the 2 questions to the Minister: Firstly, are there plans to increase the subsidy to take account of the severe inflation in costs in the building industry since the grant was last increased in February 1972? Secondly, if the grant is to be increased how soon can that society and other societies like it be informed so that their projects can continue? I ask that, when the Minister replies when closing this debate tomorrow, he make a statement to the House, if he possibly can, that the ceiling will be lifted and that it will be lifted to a ceiling of at least $6,500, allowing an overall ceiling of about $10,000 which will take into account the increase in building costs since February 1972. If the Minister makes such a statement will he also give details of the commencing date and inform the House whether those organisations that have made application but have not started to build or have nin into difficulties because of the increased inflationary costs will be given help with these new limits? 
I refer now to the hostel section of the Bill, which is really the major part of it and which relates to the increase from SIO to S12 a week in the subsidy paid where personal care services are provided and where the eligibility has been widened. We agree with these proposals and agree with what the Minister said in his speech, namely, that this should more than compensate homes for cost increases that have taken place in the past 12 months and maintain the incentive for organisations to provide this valuable type of accommodation. I remind the Minister that, to be consistent, if it is right to take account of increased costs for one section of the aged program he should take account of the overall increase in building costs which has been even more alarming. 
I also wish to refer to the Aged Persons Hostels Bill of 1972. This was amending legislation introduced by the previous Minister for Social Services, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  I will quote some relevant sections from the then Minister's second reading speech. He said: 
The Bill provides for the Commonwealth to make grants to eligible organisations towards the building of hostel-type accommodation on the basis of existing homes which were built either without Government subsidy or when subsidy was available only on a dollar-for-dollar basis. 
The Commonwealth will meet the capital cost of providing hostel-type accommodation for two additional aged persons for every one at present accommodated in an unsubsidised home, or one additional person for every two in an existing home subsidised on a dollarfordollar basis, up to a maximum of $7,800 for every aged person or necessary staff member accommodated. 
The then Minister went on to say: 
The Bill also includes a requirement that construction of the new hostel must be substantially commenced within a period of 12 months from the date of approval of the grant by the Director-General of Social Services. Otherwise the approval shall be deemed to have lapsed. The object of this provision is to bring about the building of the new accommodation within a reasonably short period. The legislation will operate for a 3-year period only, commencing from the date on which the Bill receives royal assent. In order to ensure that the 'free' homes established under this Act provide accommodation for those most in need of it, it will be a condition of approval that the accommodation is to be allocated strictly on the basis of need, without any contribution being required or received from the prospective resident towards the capital cost of the home or the funds of the sponsoring organisation. Personal care subsidy, provided under Part III of the Aged Persons Homes Act, will be payable, subject to the usual conditions, to homes established under this legislation. 
I discussed that legislation with the then Minister soon after it was introduced. I pointed out to him that at least one organisation in Victoria - I am sure there are many others in other States as well - has a long and proud record of providing assistance to aged people but has not the organisation, facilities or staff arrangements to enter into hostel-type accommodation. I refer particularly to the Alexander Miller Homes - an organisation which I think is well known to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  in Geelong in the electorate of Corio. There are quite a number of these self-contained units in the electorate of Murray. 
I asked the then Minister whether it would be possible to allow transferability of entitlement to beds from this organisation or other organisations to other bodies which are providing hostel accommodation. At the lime the then Minister said that he wanted the legislation to start working and that 1 should come to see him later on. I have allowed, 1 think, a reasonable time for this scheme to be working and I now ask the present Minister: Will he consider altering the regulations or the legislation to allow transferability of bed entitlements under the Aged Persons Hostels Bill 1972 to other organisations which are providing this type of accommodation? In asking this question I wish to make 2 points. The Minister has mentioned that hostel-type accommodation is what is urgently required and that he wishes, to encourage the principle of the granting of these beds on a needs basis. The reason I made the lengthy quotation from the previous Minister's speech is that one of the conditions of these free bed entitlements under that legislation is that they be allocated on a needs basis with no ingoings. I ask the Minister whether, in his reply tomorrow, he will give some indication as to whether transferability will be considered under this legislation as a means of increasing the number of hostel beds that are available, in particular hostel beds for the needy. 
The second piece of legislation is the States Grants (Home Care) Bill. It widens the home care services available, with some safeguards, which I think are essential, so that the States do not reduce their expenditure. I join with the honourable member for Perth who explained very well some of the principles involved in the provision of domiciliary care benefits to various groups of needy people. 1 wish to ask the Minister a question which relates to the domiciliary care benefits scheme which commenced early this year. I know that it is not part of this legislation, but I think it is part of the overall pattern of endeavouring to assist people to be cared for in their own homes rather than in the more expensive and, I think, less socially desirable way in a hostel or home. The Minister did state earlier that some problem had arisen with the application of the requirements for the domiciliary care benefit and that this matter was being investigated. I ask him what has happened to those investigations. Is it possible to make an announcement on increased flexibility for those who should be eligible or could be eligible under this scheme, particularly those people living in country areas where problems arise through the unavailability or insufficient numbers of registered nurses? This is one of the requirements of the legislation. I ask the Minister whether he can indicate when these new ideas for this domiciliary benefit will be available for application. 
The other question that I wish to ask concerns senior citizens club rooms or centres. 1 congratulate the Minister on increasing the Commonwealth's contribution to a maximum of two-thirds of the total cost although his description of this change in his second reading speech could be slightly clearer than it is. Slight confusion is found in the expression two-thirds or something else, whichever is the less'. The Minister stated also that this applies with respect to State or local governments. I ask: Why does the qualification 'local government' apply? I know of a number of cases where a local organisation has raised money for the capital cost of a senior citizens centre. The only way that contribution can be included for subsidy or grant purposes is if it is handed over to a local government organisation which then claims that money as its own so that a subsidy or grant will apply. This may be peculiar to Victoria. If it is 1 would welcome the Minister's statement to that effect. 
Why can the scheme not be a little more flexible so that a local organisation which is set up for the purpose of community involvement to raise money can be approved by a local government body for the purpose of subsidy under this Act? If this cannot be done, I ask the Minister to explain why. If it can be done, perhaps he could indicate whether the regulations or the Act wil be altered to allow this approach, which is more flexible, more sensible and enables greater community involvement, to apply. 
I hope that the Minister will answer these questions. I have put them constructsvely in a non-partisan way. I believe that they are important to the subjects under discussion. In conclusion, I repeat that the Country Party supports these measures. 
-I seek your guidance, MrDeputy  Speaker.  I and other members put specific questions to the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  during the course of the debate. They were constructive questions seeking information. I ask the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart),  because of the absence of the Minister for Social Security, when we will receive answers to these questions? 
I wish to congratulate the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  both for his courage and for his honesty. I also wish to tell him that his attendance at a fruitgrowers' meeting at Shepparton in my electorate earlier this year was appreciated by the people there. I was also in attendance at the meeting at Berri referred to by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  Basically I wish to support his comments about the problems confronting the canning fruit industry and in particular 3 canneries - Riverland, Jon Preserving Co. and Leeton - over 1972 fruit crop payments. The canning fruit industry has many problems but I do not wish to mention them all. I do not even wish to mention what happened last week when the Reserve Bank advances were increased by 2 per cent. This will cost the canneries in the Goulburn Valley over $500,000 next year. The manager of the Leeton Cooperative Cannery advised in a telegram that it will cost his cannery $170,000 or the equivalent of $7 a ton - in other words, 7 per cent of grower returns. 
I do not wish to dwell on that because I want to concentrate on this one problem of the 1972 crop payments. This problem began with the revaluation of the Australian currency by about 6 per cent by the previous Government in December 1971. The Government stated that the industry would be compensated if it could show demonstrable losses. It also advised the industry that because of the devaluations by the 2 other competitors of Aus-  traliaininternationalcannedfruitmarkets--  the United States of America and South Africa - it should match them in the market, which meant a reduction in price. This basically represented a loss to the industry. This was compounded by the floating - or, more accurately, the sinking - of sterling in June 1972. These canneries competed in the world market, as they have to if they wish to sell their fruit, and they lost heavily. 
By the time of the Federal election in December 1972 the losses for the 1972 year had not been finalised. As an interim measure and showing the good faith of the Government in honouring its commitments, loans were made to these canneries against these losses. The South Australian canneries received $383,000, Leeton cannery received approximately $680,000 and one of the Goulburn Valley canneries also received a loan. This was to allow growers to be paid up to 85 per cent of the contracted price. I assume that not only is the grower not receiving a price that has not been altered in line with inflation for some years to any degree but also he is not receiving more than 85 per cent of that particular contract. The industry finalised its losses for the 1972 year only about 6 weeks ago. This is because of problems of payment from overseas markets. The industry presented its case for 1972 to the Government - to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  - about 6 weeks ago and it is anxiously awaiting the Government's decision. 
These 3 canneries have paid only between 75 per cent and 80 per cent of growers' returns for 1972. The lesser figure is because some of the canneries have revolving funds to pay loans outstanding to the Reserve Bank or other banks. These canneries will be able to pay in full their contracted price for 1973 because of the growing fruit shortage in the world if they do not have to repay the loans advanced to them in 1972. These loan repayments are due in 4 six-monthly instalments. The first instalment was due in June or July but was deferred until December. The first repayment will have to be made in December. This brings 3 critical problems for these canneries. The first is one of grower liquidity, the problems of growers meeting their commitments and making a living when they are not receiving the contracted price. The second problem is that if the canneries are forced to repay these loans the canneries will not be able to meet their commitments for the 1973 and 1974 crops. 
An additional problem concerns the Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee. A sugar rebate is paid to canneries to compensate them for the disability of using Australian sugar when they are competing on a world market. One of the conditions of the sugar rebate is that it is payable only if the contracted price - the official FISCC price - is paid. Up until now the FISCC has not made a final decision on whether to withdraw the rebates or not allow them for 1972. The next meeting of this Committee will take place in 
Hobart in about 2 weeks time, and a final decision will be made then. Unless there is some indication given by the Government by then that compensation will be paid for these losses over these revaluations, the growers and these canneries will not only not have the full payments for 1972 but there will actually be a reduction of what they have now which will be taken out of growers' returns for the next crop. 
This Government is not to be criticised on these matters up to this point, just as the previous Government is not to be criticised. I believe that the previous Government acted in good faith in making this statement to the growers, and at the time that Government lost office it had done all it could to honour its commitments, because finalisation had not been made and, as I said earlier, was not made until about 6 weeks ago. As an act of good faith the previous Government provided these interim loans. Until these finalised returns were made 6 weeks ago one could not point to anything which showed that this Government had not honoured any commitment it wished to make or which the previous Government had made. 
But now the time of decision has arrived. It is of critical importance to these canneries that a favourable decision be made quickly. I urgently request the Government to make a favourable decision to honour what I believe was an honourable commitment of the previous Government made to a group of Australians to allow them to meet their commitments. I ask that the Government, in making this favourable decision, make it in the most favourable manner possible, which would be by the payment of approximately $20 a ton. If the Government considers it is not able to do this, I ask that at least it accept the lesser of the 2 possibilities and that is to convert these loans into grants for these 3 canneries. It would mean that they would not have to make the repayments. They would not receive any more for the 1972 crop but at least they would be able to meet their 1973 payments in full. That would not be as favourable as the payments of about $20 a ton revaluation loss but at least it would be more acceptable than the present position. I ask the Government in good faith to act and to act quickly in a favourable manner for these growers and these 3 canneries which find themselves in this critical position at the present time. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did he obtain expert technical advice from the River Murray Commission before writing to the States suggesting that Dartmouth Dam be deferred and water from Blowering Dam provided for South Australia. 
As the use of water from Blowering Dam  is  vital to Riverina irrigators in the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area, Coleambally and the Murray Irrigation Area, did he discuss the proposal with the member for Riverina. 
asked the Minister for Labour, upon notice: 
Did the Public Service Board recently announce a 16 per cent salary increase for Second Division officers. 
What percentage increase in salary has the Second Division received from the Public Service Board and National Wage decisions in each of the last 3 calendar years. 
asked the Minister representing  the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
How will the Grants Commission ascertain what is a standard not appreciably below the standards of local governments in the same or other regions. 
What criteria will the Commonwealth use in determining a standard. 
Did the Government consider providing section 96 grants for local government, with the grants to be administered by State local government departments. 
If so, why was the Grants Commission alternative preferred. 
I will leave it to the Queenslanders to continue the battle between themselves which I have no doubt will continue. I intend to confine my remarks to the Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement which will expire on 30 June next year. One of the most important tasks the Minister for Transport  (Mr Jones)  will have will be the renegotiation of that Agreement with the States. Decisions to be made will include the initial allocation the percentage increase to be allowed each year and the percentage allocation for the various categories of roads. The present scheme saw a significant departure from previous ones in that a more comprehensive road allocation grant was made to the States. I am told that the Minister did not completely accept the Bureau of Roads recommendation. I am sure the present Minister will not necessarily accept a recommendation either if he feels that other factors should be taken into account. 
I understand that the recommendation to which I have referred was based solely on vehicle usage without regard to the types of vehicles in the sense of whether they were used for entertainment, ordinary traffic, heavy duty traffic, business purposes, the carriage of goods, fibre, food and so on. Because the then Minister did not adhere to the recommendation of the Bureau the allocation for country roads was much fairer than would otherwise have been the case. I ask the Minister to remember this in the event that a similar recommendation is made this time and I hope he will make a recommendation that will provide a fairer share for country roads in Australia. 
Much has been said by the present Government - and rumours are floating around - in regard to expenditure on public transport as against expenditure on road maintenance or upgrading roads for use by private transport. This may be the correct policy for the major cities. I will not comment on this but I would remind the Minister and the Government that in country areas there is no substitute for adequate roads whether they be national highways, arterial roads or rural roads. If this Government is sincere in its wishes to hold down the price of food and the price of fibre it will have to continue with a rural road upgrading program, improvements to arterial roads and improvements to inter city highways because one of the unfortunate things that exist in Australia is that a higher percentage of the cost to the consumer is attributable to freight costs than just about any other country. One of the unfortunate burdens which the wheat grower of Australia has to bear is that on many occasions the rail freight on transporting wheat from the farm or the rail head to the port is higher - he may only be 200 or 300 miles away - than the cost of shipping that wheat several thousand miles to the export market. Freight charges on rural products is the only profit making business that the Australian railways have. 
Returning to roads, I say that there is no substitute for an upgrading program involving adequate expenditure on country roads in Australia. The present scheme allowed for an inflation factor of 5 per cent, compounding each year, on the initial or base allocation. It has become obvious that this figure is insufficient for 2 reasons. The first is the rate of inflation. The cost of road building has increased at a very high rate and with the present rate of inflation the inflation factor will be nowhere near adequate. The other reason is the overall cost in upgrading roads to a reasonable standard according to modern transport requirements. I would hope that the Minister will allow in the new agreement for a higher percentage increase per annum than exists under the present scheme. We have heard of examples of other countries and the money that is being spent on public transport systems because of problems concerning private transport in the cities of those countries. I am not here to argue that point. But I just remind the Minister and the Government that on our standards those countries also have very adequate road systems particularly arterial roads, national highways and rural roads. It would be a tragedy for the economic development of this country and for social justice for the people who live outside the capital cities if, when this new Agreement comes into force late next year, the percentage of the allocation for country roads is not at least as high as it is now and also if the inflation factor is not considerably higher than it is now. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Is it the intention of the Government to concentrate all aspects of animal quarantine and health, including live animal and semen imports and exports, in one Commonwealth Department; if so, which Department. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
If an offshore animal quarantine station is built, which Commonwealth Department will administer it. 
If it is the Department of Health, will that Department or the Department of Primary Industry decide the priority of admission of animals to the station. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
How many successful applicants for (a) debt adjustment and (b) farm build-up have there been in each State since the inception of the rural reconstruction scheme. 
How many of the successful applicants in each category in each State have been (a) dairy farmers, (b) horticulturists, (c) graziers and (d) grain growers. 
The Prime Minister will be aware of the extensive damage to private property, roads and bridges in northern Victoria from excessive rainfall and river flooding. Has the Premier of Victoria requested Federal financial assistance to repair this damage? What contribution to flood damage works will the Victorian Government have to provide before it becomes eligible for Federal assistance and on what basis will such assistance be provided? Will claims to the State Government by shire councils for finance to restore roads and bridges be accepted for assistance by the Australian Government? 
asked the Minister for the Envir onment and Conservation, upon notice: 
How much has been allocated to each State for water projects from the national water resources program. 
What projects have been approved to combat pollutionor salinity. 
What projects have been approved since the Government took office. 
What project applications are being considered by the Government at present. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Did the Government in November 1972 provide loans to several fruit canneries to allow them to pay fruitgrowers up to 85 per cent of the contracted price for the 1972 season, as an interim measure pending finalisation of losses resulting from the December 1971 currency alteration. 
If so, (a) which canneries received loans, (b) what was the sum advanced in each case and (c) what were the repayment and interest terms of the loan. 
What percentage of the 1972 price for the various types of fruit have the growers received net of cannery levies, and what percentage of this is provided by the loan. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the request made by  Mr N.  Sakiasi Waqanivavalagi, leader of the Fijian delegation to the 19th Conference of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association in London, as reported in The Canberra Times' of 20 September 1973, for Fijians to be allowed into Australia for short periods of employment. 
In view of the critical shortage of fruit pickers for the canned fruit industry, and the request of fruitgrower organisations for Fijian workers for fruit picking, will he meet this request. 
I wish to concentrate my remarks on the dairying industry and I do so because the Murray electorate is the largest producer of dairy products in Australia. It produces more than either Queens land or Western Australia, and New South Wales, South Australia and Tasmania must be looking over their shoulders at this one electorate for production total at the present time. To begin with, I commend the then Minister for Secondary Industry and Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  on a statement he made at the New Zealand-Australia trade relations talks in May. He stated: 
However, both governments are aware of the need to avoid disruptive competition in our exports of primary products, both in each other's domestic markets and in international trade. 
At that point the Minister was referring to dairy trade. I hope that this good sense between the two major dairy exporters of the world, Australia and New Zealand, which is included in that statement is continued by this Government. I wish to refer to some of the dangers of trying to predict what world trade will be because the short term outlook for dairying is the brightest it probably ever has been. According to 'Agra Europe' of 3 October, European Economic Community stocks are less than they were a year ago. There are probably problems for the EEC as a result of a sale of 200,000 tons of butter to Russia. The EEC stocks probably will not be sufficient. Russia, with its failure in socialised agriculture, as it changed the whole outlook for coarse grains and ordinary grains in the world from a situation of over supply to a shortage, is doing the same for dairy products at present. 
In the United States of America for the first time butter soon will have to be imported. In an article in 'Agra Europe' of 10 October 1973 the following appears: 
In view of the continuing decline in US butter production since 1971 while per capita consumption has remained steady at 2.2 kg per annum, market experts are now expecting the US Government to open a new butter import quota to maintain home market supplies. ... 
EEC merchants are now waiting for the announcement of a new US butter tender. Some firms have already shipped large quantities over the Atlantic into bonded warehouses in case licences are granted on a first come, first served' basis. 
If this happens it will repeat what happened recently in the United States, with mammoth sales of skim milk powder to that country. Murray-Goulburn Co-operative Co. Ltd, the largest dairy co-operative in Australia, did exactly the same thing by anticipating a skim milk powder shortage. It shipped several thousand tons of skim milk powder ahead of the release of import quotas and stored them in bond in America. The day before yesterday at a conference of the Australian Farmers Federation in Canberra the Prime Minister, in referring to the dairy bounty, said: 
These bounties have done nothing to solve the industry's major problem - the adjustment of farm production levels to realistic local and overseas demand. 
At present the major dairy companies in Australia are already sold out of their total production for the year ahead and the Prime Minister was saying, and meaning it the other way, that somehow or other we have a surplus of dairy production in Australia. In the March issue of the United States magazine 'Foreign Agriculture', which is produced by the United States Department of Agriculture, an article concerned with dairying states: 
Ample supplies and relatively low world prices for dairy products will continue to 1985. 
Six months ago the United States Department of Agriculture said that there would be an over supply of dairy products for 13 years, yet 6 months later there is a world shortage and a shortage in the United States itself. This makes it all the more essential that there be stabilisation programs for agricultural production because of the unpredictability of what will happen in world markets. Such programs also are essential if one is to help overcome the present world food shortage because more than anything else food producers and food producing countries need stability and the ability to plan ahead to produce the food the world needs. In this regard the phasing out of the dairy subsidy is most dangerous because it will lead to the possible breakdown of the cornerstone of stability in the dairying industry - equalisation. At present threats are being made in certain States and by certain companies to withdraw from equalisation. While the subsidy applied they were held in check. 
In reply to a recent question concerning whether the voluntary equalisation scheme would be changed to a compulsory one as a result of the referendum of growers held some time ago,  Dr Patterson  said that this matter was being considered at present. I hope that the Government does more than consider it. I hope it invokes it because if equalisation breaks down the stability that was so bard fought and hard won for the dairy industry over the last 40 years will be lost and the industry will be reduced to the same situation which is now facing the canned fruit industry. The canneries are short of liquid assets. They are forced to sell on the local market for less than they need to sell. There are no minimum price requirements. Quite often the Reserve Sank is forcing the canneries to sell because of its requirements for credit 
There could be a canned fruit industry situation in the dairying industry and this, in the long term, will cost far more than the subsidy would ever cost. If anyone suggests that the subsidy has not helped the dairying industry, that person has not bothered to read the statistics. In the annual report of the Dairy Produce Board reference is made to the transfer of dairy holdings from the less efficient areas of Australia to the more efficient areas - within States as well as across State borders. The program provided for the orderly transfer over a period of 20 years. This has made Australia now equal with New Zealand, as the most efficient dairy producer in the world. That program has done a great service for Australia. This has been done at a time and in an industry in which ordinary social service entitlements do not apply. If one likes to apply to the dairy industry the principles of social welfare which apply in secondary industry it would be seen that the dairy subsidy has been far cheaper than would have been the equivalent social welfare payments. 
At the present time, the price for dairy products is very high. I believe that instead of the Government's saying that it will end the dairy subsidy it should have said that it would temporarily suspend it. If world dairy prices then declined below a certain level some of the money saved in those years when the subsidy was suspended could be applied back to the dairy industry to maintain minimum incomes at a reasonable level. This would have saved money for the Government, safeguarded the industry and the incomes of the producers and, more than anything else, safeguarded the future stability of the industry. If there is not stabilisation, the problems of primary industry are such that without ordinary social security benefits that do not apply, there must, in justice, be some sort of negative income tax applied to farmers. But with all the weaknesses of commodity stabilisation, with stabilisation based on the commodity rather than on income adjustments for individuals, the former is still preferred to the latter course. If income adjustments had been applied to the dairy industry instead of a subsidy, the more efficient sectors of the industry would have been retarded more than they have been because this would have encouraged the less efficient dairy producers to stay in production. 
In the brief time remaining to me, I wish to state that the dairy industry is doing much to help itself with innovation. Gouda cheese is an example. One area in which the dairying industry should be doing more is in the spreadability of butter because this is a major consumer demand. At the present time, we have increased butter spreadability but not enough. We have a fat fractionisation process in Australia but not yet at a commercial level. New Zealand has a surface active agent process which is commercially viable. I do not know why we are not using it in Australia. I do not know why our equalisation system is not more flexible and why incentives required for marketing innovation and flexibility are not widened so that such things as butter spreadability are taken more into account in pricing our dairy products. The Australian dairy industry is a great industry. It is efficient by world standards and efficient by our own standards because the price of dairy products has risen by less than one-third of the rate of the increase in the average income during the last 10 years. Do not knock it and do not kill it. 
The speech by the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  was a very good speech in support of the amendment because he has acknowledged that the industry will be hurt by this abrupt measure. The point I make in relation to his speech is that he acknowledges and we acknowledge that the industry will be hurt. So far we have heard only vague proposals from the Government in respect of what it may do. The whole purpose of the amendment is to defer the implementation of provisions of this legislation so that an accurate study may be made of what will happen and what the Government will do to overcome the hurt that the industry will suffer. This is a very sensible and constructive amendment, and the need for it is proven by the inability of the rural committee of the Labor Party in Caucus to obtain from the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and the Government a factual and definite statement on what the Government will do to alleviate the problems it has created. Of all the sudden death measures introduced in the Budget which were selected from the Coombs Task Force report, this is the most abrupt. Coombs picked on a very nice selection of things and many of us would have picked on plenty of others from an anti-Government point of view. 
One season has just ended, vast stocks of juice are on hand, another season is fast approaching and there is confusion in the industry because of the measures that have been adopted. Various honourable members have referred, evidently on good authority, to statements that this matter was never even considered by Cabinet, and that the rural committee of the Labor Party in Caucus was against it. The question now is this: How ineffectual are the rural members of the Labor Party, and in particular the rural Ministers in Cabinet? Are they considered to be so unimportant that they are not even consulted when a decision as abrupt and as important as this is made? Apparently they do not count within the Government or within the Labor Party, and the people they represent also do not count so there is no need to consider them. The way in which this measure was introduced reveals perhaps its true intent. It was a last minute attempt to gain more money to finance some of the lavish promises and proposals of the Government. Who was the money taken from to do this? It was taken from the rural industry and the rural people. 
The collective effect of all these anti-rural measures which have been introduced will snowball particularly once the present world food shortage passes, and it will pass. Labor members should take note of this point about the present world food shortage because it has been caused principally by the failure of socialist agriculture in socialist and communist countries to produce food which is in any way adequate for their people and in any way comparable to the way in which it can be produced in Western nations. Russia is an example. So before my friends on the other side of the House consider too seriously the question of socialising our agriculture they should consider the effects that it will have on our production. Over a period of years the fruit industry has been told repeatedly that it has to diversify. With fresh fruit there are the problems of traditional markets, the European Economic Community tariffs, freight rates, revaluations which all act against the industry. The same is true of canned fruit. The industry has accepted the challenge. The fruit industry has diversified and millions of dollars have been or are to be spent on diversification, particularly in respect of juice because this is one of the viable ways of diversification. 
One of the co-operative factories in my electorate, Ardmona Fruit Products Co-op. Co. Ltd, one of the major canners in Australia, recently spent over $2m on diversification in which juicing is an important part. It has done this to overcome the continual pear surplus and the repeated criticisms which are made in this House. The question is asked: 'Can you not do anything else with a pear except can it?' The industry has done this, but what has happened. The Government takes assistance from the industry and then says: 'What you have to do is be a little more consumer orientated. You have to go out and get into the market place a little more'. If the industry tries to do something else, if that is possible, the same thing will happen again. Something will be done to ruin any legitimate and well worked out proposal. Because of this and so that we and the industry can be told what the Government intends to do, the amendment must be accepted. 
If the honourable member was a little closer to the people in his electorate he would be told loud and clear that something has to be done. Something that has been introduced so abruptly and with no study of its implications is having a serious effect. For example, we have a proposal from the Federal Association of Soft Drink Supply Houses, the fruit juice processors- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The sitting is suspended until the ringing of the bells. 
Sitting suspended from 1.30 to 2.55 p.m. 
Already from the industry there has been a submission from the federal association of the soft drink supply houses - that is, the processors, consisting mainly of co-operatives - and also the Australian Apple and Pear Growers Association with definite proposals to the Government on ways to alleviate the difficulties ahead, but so far no replies have been received. So the industry does not know what is to be presented to it or what will happen. This is of tremendous importance because the stocks on hand at the moment are not completely committed. Some bottling concerns want the processor to export the product but if they do this they will suffer losses because of revaluation changes and because the fruit has been denatured and decoloured, etc. 
There must also be considered the season which is rapidly coming up and in which the present problems will be aggravated because the European Economic Community will be increasing external tariffs on friut. Freight rates have been increased and there have been revaluation adjustments. The amendment moved by the Opposition would allow time for the industry to be told what will be provided for it. One of the proposals is that export assistance should be provided so that these markets can be developed over a period of time. The Government should also consider the development of the pure fruit juice market in Australia as well as various other measures. These problems of adjustment will be more severe for the apple and pear section of the juice industry than for the citrus section because citrus fruits are more acceptable as a source of fruit juice for the Australian market. 
The Coombs report, in referring to this measure, is too simplistic. The Committee does not appreciate or is ignorant of the position of the industry in relation to this question. The report talks of $25m as a charge for lost revenue and of bringing a $5m return to growers. However, the more significant point is that 20 per cent of apple production in Australia, approximately half of the citrus production and an increasing percentage of pears is juiced. If this fruit is not juiced, it will still go onto the market - probably the local market - and will depress returns and one must add the depressed returns to arrive at the true figure of what this 'measure will cost the industry. It is impossible for any grower to pick only those particular pieces of fruit that are suitable to be canned or exported. He must clean his trees, anyway, for health reasons. By having this additional outlet of juicing, he can lift his returns without increasing his costs. Therefore, the value to the grower is far beyond the simple monetary figure mentioned because he is getting a marginal return with no cost. For example, in the Goulburn Valley the pear grower must pick all the fruit on his trees. It is graded for size. The off-size fruit, which is still excellent fruit, then is taken in bulk and processed. The remaining fruit is taken for canning. 
I believe that the argument used on the Government side, that is that after all this juice is only being used in the manufacture of soft drink and that soft drink is not of much good for anybody is a very doubtful argument, particularly when at the same time as making soft drink more expensive for the children of Australia and also for adults who like soft drink, by imposing a 15 per cent sales tax levy, the Government is taking away free milk from children. The Government cannot very well say that it is not doing anything to knock the children of this country, even if it can argue that perhaps children should be drinking milk rather than soft drink. The Government is knocking the children in relation to milk as well as soft drink. I would prefer to see the children of Australia drinking soft drink at as cheap a price as possible, particularly with the addition of some fruit juice to make it of better value, than to see them drinking wine or something like that. Incidentally, the Government does not tax wine, but before I go too far on this point 1 should remind the Government that it is kicking the pants of the wine industry far harder with the revaluation of trading stocks as provided for in the Budget than the previous Government ever did by way of excise. When Government supporters talk about ruining fruit juice, they do not know what they are talking about because there is a difference between taking flavour out and removing colouring from the fruit juice. The essential ingredients of the fruit are still not being touched. We are really not interfering with the quality of that product. 
What is the Government doing? That is what the industry would like to know. We heard a vague statement from the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  which I believe the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  misunderstood, about doubling to 10 per cent the proportion of fruit juice contained in soft drinks. If a representative of the Government would stand and say: 'We will keep this exemption if the percentage of fruit is to be doubled', the fruit industry would rise and applaud this Government. But the Government has not said this. It has just made a vague statement about 10 per cent. We have also heard other figures relating to what the Government will do. For example, a newspaper printed in Griffith, the Area News' of 29 August 1973, states: 
Member for Riverina, Minister for Immigration,  Mr Grassby,  has obtained a firm assurance from the Treasurer,  Mr Frank  Crean, that the fruit industry will receive the full benefit of the money saved following the dropping, of the concession on carbonated drinks, which include some fruit product. 
My assessment is that the amount of money could be more than $5m and I want to see the whole of this money applied to the industry.' 
That is a very nice statement. But has the Treasurer confirmed it? How will this $5m be spent? The fruit industry has put up some proposals on how it could be spent over a 3-year period to assist the diversification of the juice industry. Will this be spent over one year? Will it be over a number of years? If it is to be just a sudden death proposal for this year, it will still lead to confusion in the industry for the coming season. 
One is reminded of the Press statement by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  that $20,000 had been given to the Lemon Board of New South Wales. But lemons are processed for juice in South Australia also. Is that industry to receive any money or is the money to be granted in an electorate held by a Labor member of Parliament? Perhaps the patronage will be on a political basis, not on an industry basis or a variety of fruit basis. Not only members on this side of the House but also the citrus growers of South Australia and the apple and pear growers throughout Australia would like to hear the answer to that question. They want to know what the Government intends to do. The fact that the rural committee of the Labor Party - I give credit to the honourable member for Wilmot in his endeavours in this regard - has been unable to obtain a firm statement from the Government reaffirms the point that the rural members in the Labor Party count for nothing. They do not have to be considered. They are ignored. 
The real reason for the imposition of this measure is to obtain extra finance as a last minute attempt prior to the Budget to finance some of the lavish promises of this Government. If this is the reason - I believe it is - the Government can still have it both ways by introducing a differential sales tax of, say, 10 per cent if fruit juice is contained in soft drink or 20 per cent if there is no fruit juice present. In this way, the income can still be obtained for the Government. There could still be the incentive for fruit juice to be used in soft drinks and everybody would be reasonably happy. I suggest seriously and constructively to the Government that it should accept even at this late stage the proposal which has been put forward by the Apple and Pear Growers Association and the other fruit grower bodies as the best way to overcome the embarrassing situation in which the Government finds itself, particularly in Tasmania, as a result of this measure. If this cannot be done, Government supporters should support our amendment as a way in which time can be bought so that industry will know what the Government is going to do. It is obvious that the Government does not know at this stage what it will do, otherwise it would have told us. I support the amendment. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
One of the main points made by the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  related to the social injustice and double payments that supposedly occur with the existing health scheme. I would have thought that he would have kept very quiet about that point, because if there is any question of double payment and social injustice it is in the proposed new scheme, under which a husband and wife who both work will both be taxed. The majority of households in which this occurs are those of the working people, the believed supporters of this Government. In an endeavour to earn sufficient income both husband and wife work. Both will be taxed on the full amount they earn irrespective of what their health care needs are. So I do not think we should bother to hear too much about social injustice and double payment from the Government. 
Australia is a democratic society. It is a gradualist society; it is not a revolutionary one. We believe in change by evolution rather than revolution. The Government's proposals for a new health scheme are revolutionary; they are not evolutionary. The Government is saying in effect that the present scheme is so sick that everything has to be tossed out and we have to start again. If one looks at the results of what happens in revolutionary societies one can imagine the confusion, the uncertainty and the problems that the Government scheme will create. The basis on which the Government assumes that our present scheme is so sick is incorrect. All of us acknowledge that there are weaknesses in the present scheme - weaknesses that have been exacerbated by the unwillingness of this Government to do anything to update some of the features of the scheme so that it can keep up with inflationary costs. It has done this in an endeavour to create a climate of public opinion in favour of its scheme, and just as it did when it tried its hand with the doctors and their fees it will fail. The medical fees tribunal report on doctors' fees completely exonerated doctors and showed how false the arguments and the propaganda of the Government were. 
That is a good question to ask, and it is far better asked of your socialist societies in countries such as the United Kingdom, where a person has to wait up to 3 years for any sort of surgery. So if the honourable member wants to talk about shortages let him have a look at the socialist societies. The basis of the Government's claim that it has to bring in this revolutionary change, or try to bring in this revolutionary change, is that there is not universal health insurance cover at the present time. It keeps claiming that IS per cent of the population is not covered. The figures that have been cited repeatedly by various sources show that about 96 per cent of the population is covered. But what is of particular interest emerges from reading the report of Scotton and Deeble at paragraph 1.18 on page 4 where they give the percentage of the society they claim will be covered under the new scheme. The report states: 
From these 2 sources- 
It is referring to child endowment records and electoral rolls, the 2 sources the Government claims it will use-  an estimated 80 per cent of the population will be covered. The remaining 20 per cent will include- 
The report then lists the 20 per cent of the population that will not be covered by the new scheme. That is a far greater percentage of the population than that not covered at the present time. The report goes on in paragraph 1.19 to state: 
To register these groups it may be necessary to mount a publicity campaign advising people of the introduction of the plan- 
One of the great criticisms that this Government made of the present subsidised medical scheme is that it is impossible to publicise it sufficiently well so that the person who should be reading the advertisements about the scheme wakes up to what his possibilities are and takes advantage of them. Yet the Government is saying with its scheme 20 per cent of the population will not be covered and it will mount the same sort of futile publicity scheme which it claims was the cause of the failure of the present subsidised medical benefit scheme. 
Another point is that I believe the present scheme - I think we all acknowledge this - is unjust to pensioners through the operation of the pensioner medical scheme. Coupled with this is the problem of hospital finance. Surely the way to overcome these problems is to adjust and update the present scheme so that pensioners are included in it on a just basis, as are other members of society, at the same time making sure that the hospital finance, the cost of treating these people in hospital, is adequately covered. This can be done with the present scheme far more efficiently and far more quickly than with the new scheme. 
It is very hard to ascertain exactly what the proposed scheme will be, because whenever one tries to debate the Scotton and Deeble report - we were not allowed to debate it - or put up a proposition based on the report the Government says: 'But we will not necessarily adopt Scotton and Deeble on that aspect; we have something else in mind. We have modified that particular point'. We were confronted with this approach when the Government tabled a White Paper on the Australian health program today. Once again we will not be allowed to debate it. A Bill will be introduced and will be passed before Christmas because the Government wants its scheme to start on 1 July next year. When looking at the Government's proposition we have to ask whether its proposal is any better and whether the problems that exist could have been overcome in a better way by the present scheme. The answer is that the new scheme will not be better; that the job could be done far better far more quickly than with new scheme. 
What will the new scheme do if it can be introduced by 1 July? Rows are going on in the Department of Social Security about it and there are problems about whether or not the health funds will be needed to help the Government out of its trouble. After the Government has been criticising the funds for some time it now finds that it will have to use them for several years if the scheme is to work. Constitutional difficulties arise with the States, which are the sovereign bodies responsible for financing hospitals. Two States say that they will not have a bar of the scheme. In this situation it will be impossible for this scheme to be introduced on time on 1 July. At the same time all it will do is create confusion in the minds of the people about the most essential service that any community can provide, health service. It will create uncertainty about what people will be entitled to, what is will cost and whether they will be able to receive support if they go into a private hospital - all for something that will not provide the cover that can be more adequately and efficiently provided by updating the present scheme. 
Why is the Government trying to do this? Why is it trying to bulldoze through to the people of Australia something that will be to their disadvantage? At every level, every time we have tried here in the Parliament to say that the Government should let the people of Australia have time to study the proposal and let us air these questions in Parliament, we have been denied the opportunity to do so. We have been refused an opportunity to debate the Scotton and Deeble report. We have been refused an opportunity to debate the White Paper on the Australian health program. We are to have a Bill forced upon us and forced through Parliament, no doubt with the assistance of the guillotine, sometime between now and Christmas. 
I think that the suggestion in the motion for a committee is a very sensible proposal because it will allow the people of Australia time to study what is before them in the White Paper and the Bill. It will allow other people to provide expert viewpoints on health care. We should remember one other thing about the Scotton and Deeble committee. Representatives of a big area of expertise in this country were not allowed an opportunity to provide evidence to that committee. A whole area of health expertise in this country has had no opportunity at any time of presenting to this Government its views properly considered on what should be the best health scheme for Australia. Why does the Government not slow down for its own political good even if it is not worried about the uncertainty it will create with respect to health care throughout Australia? It should consider the setting up of the committee that is proposed and during its considerations the people of Australia would have time to study the Government's proposal. If such a committee were established, during its investigations it could examine some other aspects of health care that Scotton and Deeble did not consider, including a more adequate cover for ancillary services in Australia. If people want to talk about a more universal health care service and wider cover, this is an important point; which has not been made by Scotton and Deeble. 
I hope that this motion is passed so that the Parliament and the people can look at the overall situation. I suggest that when the proposed Bill comes before the Parliament its consideration should be deferred until the autumn session. This will give all people a chance to study its implications before it becomes law. I am sure that if this happens the Government will become aware of the growing opposition to its proposed national health scheme. I hope the message will sink in and that the Government, for its own political future if not for the good of health care in Australia, will slow down and do the decent thing by improving the existing scheme rather than throwing it out of the window for something that is completely uncertain and extremely costly. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr McLeay's)  be agreed to. 
I feel that I was maligned by that statement also. 
I would just add that if one is fighting for a just cause one does not have to be paid by anybody. 
If by descending into the gutter is the only way that the New South Wales Labor Party has any hope of faring well in the New South Wales State election campaign, well, good luck to it. That is about all- 
The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  in his usual manner has laid serious charges tonight. I intend to answer those charges and to lay some in return at the foot of the Labor candidate,  Mr Drew.  I suggest to the Labor Party that if it is so anxious to draw the attention of the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  to this alleged malpractice, it also should look at what its own candidate has been up to, and I have no doubt what the end result of such an inquiry will be. A by-election for the seat of Murray was held recently in New South Wales. 
This seat was won on the preferences of the Labor candidate who polled very badly in that by-election. 
On this occasion, the Country Party topped the poll. On this occasion, the same candidates with some additional independent candidates are running for the seat of Murray. Bruce Jeffrey, who was the Country Party candidate at the by-election, is standing as an Independent. That is correct. He is standing without the authority of the New South Wales Country Party. As a private citizen in this country, if he wants to run as an Independent candidate, he can. 
Earlier this week the charge was made that one of the candidates for the seat of Murray in the State election had offered to buy the preferences of the Labor candidate. No names were mentioned until tonight under the privilege of Parliament. If  Mr Drew  was honest and sincere in his attempt to overcome a malpractice, why did he not announce the name of the person who made this offer? All of the candidates for the seat of Murray in the State House have denied the charge, including Bruce Jeffrey and his campaign manager,  Mr Norm  McDonald. No verification of the tape recording is available. If  Mr Drew  wishes to be the honest broker for honest politicians in Australia, why does he not say who it was who made the offer - if it ever happened? Bruce Jeffrey and his campaign team have said publicly that the incident did not occur. 
I return to the subject of the by-election. Why does not  Mr Drew  reveal what he did in the course of the by-election campaign when he offered Labor Party preferences to the highest bidder? He and a State member of the New South Wales Labor Party approached Country Party members and said: 'You can have the Labor preferences for $3,000.' These Country Party people said that they would have nothing to do with this offer. If there is to be any investigation by any AttorneyGeneral into malpractice in the course of this election, why is not the true malpratice investigated in respect of which witnesses are available who can verify what occurred? If  Mr Drew  wishes to carry out his public service, instead of relying on some intermediary in this gutter type attitude that we have heard about tonight, why does he not support such an investigation? This attitude is symptomatic of the attitude of the New South Wales Labor Party. 
What about what happened with respect to the Federal electorate of Shortland, and the pre-selection ballots there? I quote from the House of Representatives Hansard of 24 May 1972. The then member for Shortland,  Mr Griffiths,  is reported in this way: 
The pre-selection of Peter Morris as the Labor candidate to represent the scat of Shortland by the Federal Executive of the Australian Labor Party last Sunday concludes one of the most sinister - 
What has occurred demonstrates again the point that it is all right for members of the Labor Party to dish out mud but when the facts are being thrown directly into their face, all those Labor members who say that they want the truth to emerge and who talk about our members taking points of order, are very quick to resort to the same action themselves. If honourable members read through some of the speeches made by  Mr Charlie  Griffiths while he was the member for Shortland they will read some most interesting material not only about the pre-selection for the Federal seat of Shortland, to which I will not refer, but also about the whole attitude of the Labor Party in New South Wales to vote rigging and bribery. The honourable member for Blaxland would probably know more about those things than many. 
I return to the subject of the State seat of Murray. If the Labor Party and the honourable member for Blaxland are sincere in claiming that they want the truth to emerge, why do they not ask their own upstanding, publicspirited, public-minded candidate,  Mr Drew,  to reveal what has happened in Murray in the course of the last 2 elections for that seat. Let us hear the facts about how he went around and on behalf of the Labor Party in New South Wales, as the official Labor candidate for that State seat, offered Labor Party preferences to the highest bidder. He had no thought as to policy or to public attitudes. He offered those preferences to the highest bidder, and the offer was refused by the Country Party then. Government members can laugh and carry on if they wish, but why do they not carry through their threats and go ahead with the nice little charges that have been made by the honourable member for Blaxland and then see what the facts are, not just some alleged tape recording but something in which witnesses are involved who can speak if required, and so see how the offer made by  Mr Drew  and the New South Wales State Labor Party, made obviously with the support of the Labor Parry, happened in the course of that by-election? 
We might also learn about  Mr Drew's  attitude in this election. If he was going around offering his preferences to everybody then, if he was ready to sell them, he will probably do it now. He will probably do it again, because that is the type of candidate that the Labor Party attracts. If there is any attempt by the Labor Party to cloud the real issues in the New South Wales election, particularly in country areas if there is an attempt to draw attention away from its dismal failure, its antirural attitude, its belabouring of all areas outside Sydney - which will count heavily against it in the New South Wales State election - if the best it can do is to draw a smokescreen over the position, it is a pretty poor attempt and it typifies the gutter attitude it has to politics in this country. I repeat that if the Labor Party is keen to pursue the question of  Mr Drew  supposedly being offered a bribe or an amount of money for preferences, let us see what  Mr Drew  himself has been up to during both elections. 
 I congratulate the Government for plugging two of the gaps in areas of social welfare injustice in providing for the single or no-parent families with dependent children, the supporting mother's benefit, which clarified one area, and the double orphan's pension for the parentless or orphan child. I know that I am speaking on the same subject as did the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  but I am quite happy to do that because I believe that there is one area still outstanding which is the single most serious area of social welfare injustice in Australia, and that is the single male parent with dependent children, the widower, the divorced or the deserted father. The Australian Birthright Movement was reported in the 'Australian' of 17 October 1972 as saying that at that time there were approximately 11,000 of these people in Australia. 
Any single parent has problems. The woman has a problem in earning an income while she looks after the house and the children. The man has the problem of paying for the housekeeper and child-minding facilities while he earns an income. A paper "The Deserted Father, A Study of his Problems' by the Family Services Committee of the Victorian Council of Social Service, Melbourne, on this subject had this to say: 
The problem is much more complex when a father is deserted. He too may stay at home to care for the children whilst receiving social service benefits. However, the community tends to frown upon such a reversal of roles, and the father himself frequently cannot accept what he considered as a degrading position. Yet if he continues at his job. who does run the home and care for the children? As the community is prepared to take the responsibility as breadwinner for a deserted wife should the community also take responsibility for the provision of a substitute mother? This need is a much greater one and more difficult to meet because of its personal nature and the consequent demands in times and effort. 
That is a fairly old paper. When I asked the Parliamentary Library Research Service to provide some material on this question of the single male parent 1 was surprised at how little material is available. A woman, if she has one dependent child,  can work  and earn up to $26 a week before the benefit of $32 a week is reduced. The man - nothing. The man is not even allowed child-minding or housekeeper services as tax deductions. The single male parent usually has a greater earning capacity than has the woman so the general benefit level cannot be applicable. But there should be some payment to cover the housekeeping and child-minding expenses. Just as a purely tentative suggestion I suggest a payment of $10 a week for the first child and $5 a week for succeeding children. If this Government can introduce a single parent benefit to cover this area of need I believe it will be doing a great service for Australia. I hope that the Government does this while it is in power rather than wait for the next Government to return. 
The other matter I wish to mention concerns the danger of the introduction of exotic diseases into Australia, particularly foot and mouth disease. The honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  referred to this today in a question when he pointed out one of the weaknesses in our protection system in relation to small aeroplanes flying from somewhere in South East Asia, where there is foot and mouth disease, to some area in Australia which does not have preventive facilities. There is a greater avenue through which this disease could come in, and that is through the breakdown of inspection and disinfection procedures at our major airports. This is happening at a time when more people are entering Australia - perhaps this is one of the reasons why the system is breaking down - from countries where diseases such as foot and mouth disease are prevalent. A good example is Bali, a very popular holiday place for Australians now, where there is foot and mouth disease. This is also happening at a time when one of the greatest outbreaks of foot and mouth disease is occurring in Asia Minor. It is spreading from that area to other parts of the world. I quote from an article in the Shepparton 'News' by  Mr K.  D. Bowtell, Managing Director of Consolidated Meat Holdings Ltd. This was reported in a number of newspapers. He said: 
I returned recently from Europe where I inspected farms and meatworks in foot and mouth countries but I had to ask the authorities to disinfect my footwear. A friend who returned about the same time from the same area forgot to ask the authorities and they didn't disinfect his shoes though he bad nominated on the customs entry that he'd been on farms in foot and mouth areas. 
When I returned from the parliamentary delegation tour of China via Thailand and 
Malaysia, I also reported on the customs form that I had been in those countries and that I had imported certain animal products. The customs officer did not bother to inspect the footwear or the other items. I drew his attention to this. He had a quick look and said: Oh, they're all right. We won't bother to spray them'. I could mention an increasing number of other people who have returned from farms in foot and mouth areas in other parts of the world who are having the same experience. The general consensus is that Darwin is quite good and that the procedures there are followed fairly well but that Sydney is very lax. There, one virtually has to force the customs officer to carry out the correct procedures. This is not good enough. When I was in New Zealand last year I found that the New Zealanders were far more conscientious with their application of disinfectant procedures than we are in Australia. Once again I quote  Mr Bowtell  to draw the attention of the Committee to the danger to Australia. He said: 
At any one time, there is about $84m worth of export in store in Australia and another $48m worth of meat in transit to oversea countries. Thus $132m worth of meat would immediately be classed as a health hazard' and would be unsaleable in most parts of the world. 
The meat industry is our greatest export industry, the one with the greatest future. We are putting it at risk with the present failure to carry out procedures at our major international airports. I know that this matter perhaps is not completely the responsibility of the Department of Health in the sense that that Department has the overall responsibility through the animal quarantine section and that the officers at the airports are customs officers and not officers of the Department of Health. I am also aware of the expert group of people in the animal quarantine section in the Department. I believe it would be better for Australia if they were transferred to a national veterinary service in the Department of Primary Industry, but that is beside the point at the moment. I ask the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  to take this up with his officers to see that for the future of this industry which is important to Australia the procedures are strengthened and carried out as they should be with people coming in to Australia from foot and mouth disease affected areas of the world. 
asked the Minister for 'Education, upon notice: 
How has the $3m provided for needy tertiary students been allocated to the various universities and colleges of advanced education. 
How many students attending Victorian institutions have(a) applied for and (b) received assistance. 
How much of the $3m has been made available as (a) grants and(b) loans. 
How much has been made available (a) to pay fees and (b) for living allowances. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to advertisements by the honourable member for Riverina during the campaign for the 1972 general elections for the House of Representatives stating that a Labor Government would change the probate law so that the death of a member of the family of a family business or farm would not diminish assets of the family. 
If so, when is it proposed to introduce this legislation. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I wish to refer to 2 matters, namely, the stationing of a meteorological officer at Shepparton and the possible movement of the headquarters of the Antarctic Division from Melbourne to Hobart. The Goulburn Valley is the most intensely farmed and irrigated area in Australia. Some of its crops are particularly prone to weather conditions. I refer particularly to the fruit industry and the tomato industry. For some time people in the area have made representations for the stationing of a meteorological officer at Shepparton. I had some correspondence on this matter with the Minister for the Interior in the previous Government who was then in charge of the Bureau of Meteorology. With the change of government the discussions continued with  Mr Hannay,  the Victorian Regional Director of the Bureau. A meeting was convened in Shepparton earlier this year and representatives of the different interested people in the area attended. Since then the senior officer of the Victorian Department of Agriculture in Shepparton,  Mr Wauchope,  has arranged with the Victorian Minister for Agriculture,  Mr Ian  Smith, to write to the Commonwealth Minister requesting the stationing of such an officer at Shepparton. My information is that such a letter has been forwarded. 
I would ask the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  to give this request sympathetic consideration and approval. Weather is tremendously important to high risk, high value crops and also to the overall efficient utilisation of irrigation water, the problem of frosting and the avoidance of flooding. There are 2 research stations in the Goulburn Valley - a horticultural research station and an irrigation research station. The officers of these research farms would be more than happy to co-operate with the meteorological officer for the development of certain programs such as water use, irrigation timing, macro and micro climatology, instrumentation, frost timing, etc. I ask the Minister to give this request serious consideration and approval. If that is done I believe that this will be a most important development for the greater matching of what we can produce efficiently and the preservation of the environment. This will be achieved through reduction of the risk of unnecessary flooding through better timing of irrigation, through better weather forecasting and other meteorological services such as the provision of evaporation-precipitation ratios, etc., which will add to the productivity of this most highly developed area in northern Victoria. 
The other matter I raise relates to the concern expressed by a number of people about the possible movement of the Antarctic Division headquarters from Melbourne to Hobart. 
I think many members of Parliament have received letters on this matter from exmembers of Antarctic expeditions. I have received several letters, including one from a personal friend who was the leader of a previous Antarctic expedition. All of the letters express concern over the possible movement of the headquarters. I have been trying for a couple of weeks to ask a question of the Minister on this subject but unfortunately, due to nobody's fault, I have not been able to ask the question to ascertain what is the actual position at present. Evidently at the moment there is a need for rehousing or more adequate housing for the headquarters of the Division in Melbourne. I think that this is accepted by everybody. This perhaps raises the question of whether to rehouse the headquarters again in Melbourne and perhaps add to the present building or whether to move it somewhere else. Apparently, for a variety of reasons, there is pressure that the move be to Hobart. There is concern that such a move will reduce the efficiency of the operations of the Division. I shall quote a section from a letter I have received from a previous leader of an Antarctic expedition. When referring to the possible movement to Hobart he states: 
I consider that such a move can have only detrimental consequences for Australia's Antarctic work. Hobart has not the technological resources needed to support a complex expeditionary headquarters; it has not the sources of supply; it has not the variety of scientific support facilities (universities, CSIRO laboratories, instrument makers, government Departments, etc.). 
From Hobart many categories of expeditionary personnel would have to be sent to Melbourne for their specialised training. The design and maintenance of mechanised equipment demands close collaboration between the user and the supplier and most of the suppliers of such equipment are in Melbourne but not in Hobart. 
In addition the transfer to Hobart would result in the resignation of a number of key personnel upon whose long period of polar experience the logistic effectiveness of the ANARE depends. 
The move would, moreover, be expensive and so would the operations in Hobart as compared with those in Melbourne. 
Lack of technological back-up facilities, posisible resignations of senior personnel and the increased cost of the overall administration of the headquarters are arguments that have been put by other people who have been connected with the Antarctic Division in some form or another over the years and all those people are most concerned for the possible future efficient operation of the Division, if the move takes place. As I have not been able to ask a question of the Minister I should be pleased if he would at least clarify the position on the thinking of his Department on this subject when he replies. I ask him to consider the detrimental effects a move to Hobart will have on the Division, if it takes place. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Does the Australian dairy industry have two federal bodies, viz.: the Australian Dairy Farmers Federation and the Federal Dairy Council. 
If so, what is the membership claimed for each of the bodies in each of the States. 
What representatives of each of the organisations are represented on what Commonwealth and State dairy industry bodies. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that the Telefunken Co., patent holder of the phase alternating line - PAL - colour television system, will not allow colour television components or sets to be imported into this country for 2 years after the introduction of colour television in Australia? If this is so, will the Prime Minister explain how the Australian consumer will actually benefit from his promise of lower priced colour television sets if the local manufacturers cannot be kept honest by actual or threatened import competition from overseas sets? 
 I am surprised that the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  has raised this matter again. At no time did I raise it. The matter was raised by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  On both occasions when he raised the matter I replied because I believe that if there has been gutter politics and muck spreading, it was started by the honourable member for Blaxland, who made a character assassination on a person who is not here and has had no chance to defend his honour. If anybody talks about cowardly attacks, let us look at where this matter started and where it has persisted. 
One other point I wish to make is that I have been pleasantly surprised by the number of Labor Party members of this Parliament who have come to me privately and have dissociated themselves from the remarks of the honourable member for Blaxland. They have pointed out that no political party is in any position to point the finger at any other political party, and I think I have demonstrated that fairly clearly in this whole episode. They said that such an attack was personally repugant to them, and they also raised the question of the validity of a tape recording. It is still disputed whether such a tape recording exists. If it exists it is completely unsubstantiated. 
I think the two other points that these Labor members of Parliament made are very interesting. The first is that a tape recording is inadmissible in evidence, and any talk of referring the matter to the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  is hogwash, and I think 'hogwash' is the correct term for the gutter politics that have been used in this instance. The other point is that this happened at a time when  Senator Murphy  is making great statements about laws to protect the invasion of privacy through such gadgets as electronic listening devices and tape recorders. On the one hand the Labor Party is saying that it is the protector of privacy, and on the other hand, if this happened, if this conversation was tape recorded - and it has been denied that it happened - it is a breach of all the ethical rules of privacy in this country. Those statements were made by Labor members of this House. 
Has he withdrawn that remark,  Mr Speaker? 
Thank you. 
The honourable member for Blaxland made these 2 attacks. He is the one who started it, he is the one who spread the mud in a cowardly character assassination in the events that led up to the State election. If one asks who does this sort of thing, I believe that it is the Labor Government. The members of the Labor Party are the last people who can talk about this matter because one only has to recollect what the former honourable member for Shortland said in this place about the tactics of the New South Wales Labor Party in such matters. By speaking under cover of parliamentary privilege the honourable member for Blaxland has allowed the person who has been attacked no chance to reply. The honourable member has allowed alarmist headings to be placed in newspapers in the electorate concerned in an endeavour, I believe, dishonestly to affect the outcome of the election in that seat. 
If one wants to talk about charges, the only charges that one can refer to in the sense of breaking some guidelines or rules are those relating to preference selling, not to preference buying, because on  2  occasions - 'both in a by-election and in a general election - the Labor candidate wanted to sell his preferences not only to the independent Country Party candidate but to other candidates as well. 
I wish now to refer to some information that I have obtained. On Friday, 21 September last at approximately 9.30 a.m. in Napier Street, Deniliquin, between the Labor Party and Country Party offices which are both in that street,  Mr Jack  Hallam, M.L.C. and  Mr Lin  Gordon, M.L.A. approached  Mr Tim  Fisher, M.L.A. and  Mr Bruce  Jeffrey, the endorsed Country Party candidate, seeking an arrangement regarding the by-election to be held on 6 October.  Mr Jeffrey  asked  Mr Hallam:  'What is meant by an arrangement? Our preferences will go to the Liberals and the Liberal Party preferences will go to the Country Party,  Mr Hallam  said: 'The other Party is offering a good deal. What can your Party offer?' As I said the other day,  Sir Charles  Cutler was further down on the other side of Napier Street.  Mr Jeffrey  and  Mr Fisher  said that they could make no comment and that they would talk to  Sir Charles  Cutler.  Sir Charles  Cutler said: 'Definitely, no. We will have nothing to do with any deal whatsoever'. This was then reported to Messrs Hallam and Gordon. 
If one wants to dispute whether these people were in Deniliquin one should read the articles in the Mumimbidgee papers where one will see references to these gentlemen being there at the time. In the election, I repeat, once again  Mr Drew  was offering his preferences to the highest bidder, or so he claimed. He stated that as the price paid in the by-election was $2,000, the price would have to be higher. So much for the talk of whether it was preference buying or preference selling. If any charges are made they must be in relation to preference selling. 
Also there is a question of the breach of the Australian Broadcasting Act by Labor Party supporters. On Thursday morning prior to the State election, after the closing time for all political comment, on the 8 a.m. news on 2QN, through the assistance of Labor Party people, these allegations that have been made in Parliament were broadcast in contravention of the Broadcasting Act. 
I do not enjoy doing this. I did not start it. It is personally repugnant to me. But I want to make one thing perfectly clear: Nobody is going to make character assassination speeches in this place against any personal friend of mine and get away with it. I inform anybody on the other side of the House who wishes to continue this particular episode that I have considerably more information of interest to this Parliament that can be revealed. I say to the honourable gentlemen opposite: Give up. You have started a dirty business. Let us leave it there. If you want to continue with the battle, you will have somebody to fight. 
I ask the Minister for Social Security whether it is a fact that under the Government's proposed health scheme the $16 per day bed allowance for patients in private hospitals will cease after approximately 180 days and long term patients will then be forced back to standard wards in public hospitals, as the special account arrangements which at present provide indefinite cover for such patients are to be abolished. The White Paper does not mention this restriction but it does state that the Government will restrict private insurance cover for private patients to $15 per day. Does this not mean that the Government's claim of freedom of choice for patients and support for private hospitals and private patients is not true? 
I wish to comment on two or three points arising from the Bill which is, from the point of view of the Minister for Social Security  Mr Hayden)  basically a tidying up measure. First, I refer to the handicapped children's benefit. To put this into perspective, I will quote the following reference from the relative section of the Budget Speech: 
The handicapped children's benefit is payable to charitable and religious organisations conducting approved homes accommodating and caring for both physically and mentally handicapped children under 16 years of age. As announced in the Budget Speech, it is proposed to double the rate of benefit to $3 a day for each child at an estimated cost of $0.2m in 1973-74 and $0.5m in a full year. 
I congratulate the Government upon doubling this benefit. The point I want to make relates to the contradiction that parents of handicapped children face. If they send their child to be accommodated in an approved home, the organisation running that home will receive $3 a day towards the cost of caring for the child. However, if the parent is unable to have the child accommodated the benefit is not paid, and he is deprived of it. In my area, there are some parents in this position because, as they live in the country, they are some distance from where these homes are located. Perhaps it is just as difficult for those living in metropolitan areas to obtain accommodation at a home for their children because of the shortage of beds and facilities. In addition, parents may believe that it is their responsibility to care for a child at home, believing that that is where the best care can be provided for the child. In such cases, the child goes to a special day school of some type. Such parents already carry a heavy financial and emotional burden in having handicapped children. 
I do not criticise this Government any more than I criticise the previous Government, because this anomaly - I will call it that - existed during the term of office of the previous Government. I believe that it is an anomaly that a parent of a handicapped child under 16 years of age should receive no assistance at all. Together with the anomaly relating to the single male parent, I think these are 2 basic weaknesses in our present social welfare cover. I believe a special benefit should be introduced that could be an extension of the invalid pension arrangement which, at present, begins only when the person concerned reaches the age of 16 years. Alternatively, there could be an extension of the domiciliary care arrangement for those over a certain age who are adjudged to be acceptable under particular provisions. An extension of either of those 2 existing schemes or some other scheme that I am sure the Minister and this Government - or any Government - could dream up could be appropriate to cover this anomaly and weakness with regard to the important matter of handicapped children. 
The other point with which I wish to deal concerns amendments relating to the pensioner medical service to update the payments. In the last 2 paragraphs of his second reading speech, the Minister referred to the updating procedures for the pensioner medical scheme and said that if the scheme was updated any further there would be a problem with regard to people on low incomes who were required to take out health insurance coverage. Great complications could arise in this connection. I believe that it is a great pity that in this Bill the Government did not take the opportunity to cover not only the abolition of the $10 charge for hearing aids - which I certainly support - and the other matters, such as the transfer of certain responsibilities to the Department of Social Security, but also to include the necessary amendments to update the present national health scheme and overcome its accepted weaknesses. This could have been done in the present Bill, without all the complication and turmoil of the Government's other Bills and without the confusion that will be created if those proposals of the Government are accepted. 
The problem with regard to low income earners and pensioners to which the Minister referred could have been solved by the necessary amendments being included in this Bill. By this one simple Bill, our National Health Act could have been updated and could have continued so that people could understand and be confident about the sort of health care they would receive. I repeat that this could have been achieved without all the turmoil and uncertainty that will eventuate if the whole range of the Government's Bills on the national health scheme comes forward. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the most successful exhibition of archaeological finds of the People's Republic of China now being staged in London. 
Did he see in Peking the companion funeral jade suit to the one which is creating tremendous interest at the exhibition. 
Will he endeavour to have the exhibition come to Australia before its return to China. 
In seconding the amendment I wish to say that the Australian Country Party supports the establishment of the Apple and Pear Corporation. It is one of a great number of reorganisational proposals in relation to which the previous Minister for Primary Industry was well advanced when the change of Government took place. I hope that if the previous Government had been returned there would have been a few things in the Bill rather different from what is in this one. Nevertheless this Bill is an important step to help an industry that is in real trouble. The honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  stated that the previous Government had not done anything for the industry in a decade. The most important measure which brought stability to the apple and pear industry in a long time was that introduced by the previous Government, namely, the apple and pear stabilisation scheme. Income stability is of tremendous importance to any exporting industry. I believe, and the amendment states, that the apple and pear stabilisation scheme should be updated now, but it has given some level of stability which otherwise would not have existed. The honourable member for Franklin also conveniently forgot about the success of the previous Minister for Primary Industry in reducing the multitude of labels, shipping arrangements, etc., for exports from Tasmania down to one single label. This action by the previous Minister helped in some way to overcome the Tasmanian ports' bad record of being the most expensive series of ports in the world. 
The honourable member also mentioned the crime of fruit trees being uprooted while we have hungry people in the world. I agree with him on this. I only hope that some success is achieved. One of the first things I did when I became a member of Parliament was to check the official list that the Australian Government has of goods and other items which it is prepared to offer in its foreign aid program. The proposition of offering fruit as foreign aid has been promoted by the Government, but I think the important point is that if we are genuine in our desire to help less fortunate people we should give them what they want rather than thrust on them what we have in surplus, as has been the situation. Unfortunately fruit is not a high priority food with people in need of assistance, and when they have wanted something from us they have asked for grain or some other staple food. The deep seated problems facing the apple and pear industry, particularly the export section of the apple industry, go far beyond what this Apple and Pear Corporation will be able to achieve. This applies more to the apple industry than to the fresh pear industry. I remind honourable members that there is also a canning pear industry which probably has equally deep seated problems as has the apple industry. 
I think that some aspects of the Apple and Pear Corporation Bill are very good. The power to control exports is essential. The power to charter and to arrange shipping is also essential. I think it has already been mentioned that approximately 60 per cent of the value of exported fruit represents freight charges. In addition there is to be a 16 per cent increase in those charges this year and I do not think that will be the last increase for the coming season because the industry is faced with the prospect of surcharges being imposed due to the oil shortages affecting shipping. The power to organise sales within Australia is of tremendous importance because unless breakthroughs can be made with new export markets - and I wish the Minister well in his discussions with Japanese officials on the problem of codling moth which is affecting our exports to that country - particularly apple markets there will be tremendous pressure on the domestic market as the export sales to our traditional markets become less and less. There is increasing competition for available export markets from New Zealand and South America the industries of which in some ways are more efficient than ours and unless we have an overall authority to try to save the situation from chaos I think chaos could eventuate before very long. 
The power in respect of research and promotion is also welcomed. The honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  mentioned some alternative pear products. I will just reiterate what he said about perry wine and dehydrated pears. I congratulate the people at Shepparton who are world leaders in the field of dehydration of pears. But I would repeat that the problem facing the successful innovation of perry or pear wine and various pear alcohols is that there is no excise or sales tax on apple alcohols, wine alcohols or grape alcohols. Yet there is a IS per cent sales tax on other fruit alcohols of which perry wine would be a major product at the present time. It is hard enough to introduce a new product onto a market alongside the established products such as cider and wine without having a IS per cent hurdle to overcome at the same time. I ask the Government once again as I have asked it several times to give favourable consideration to the removal of this sales tax because it does not bring in any income. It is an anomaly. The only way to sort it out is to remove the sales tax on all other fruit alcohol. 
There are some points in this legislation that I am not happy about and one is the fact that the members of the Corporation are to be appointed, not elected. As the honourable member for Corangamite mentioned, the growers in the industry were told by the Labor Party spokesmen before the general election that they believed in elected representatives. They were following that belief through faithfully I suppose when they required a referendum on the embargo on the export of merino rams. If they required a direct vote of the industry in that instance in order to ascertain the effect on growers rather than a vote of appointed representatives, why did they not be consistent and stick to the same formula for the Apple and Pear Corporation? They should be consistent. All the grower representatives will be appointed from the Australian Apple and Pear Growers Association. This provision has certainly resurrected this organisation. The legislation places tremendous responsibility on it to be truly representative of all the apple and pear growers in this country and to act in an exemplary and efficient manner on behalf of the industry. After all, it has been given a statutory monopoly as a growers organisation with real power. 
I suppose that a reasonable distribution of the 4 growers appointed as representatives initially would be two from Tasmania, one from Western Australia and one from Victoria. The Victorian representative would represent the pear export section of the industry. Honourable members will remember that approximately 70 per cent or two-thirds of our fruit exports are apples and the remaining percentage is pears. Victoria is responsible for about two-thirds of our pear exports. I think it is only just that one out of the four should represent the pear growers and ought to be a Victorian. 
There are 2 points in the legislation with which I am most unhappy. One is in clause 6 (0 which sets out the functions of the Corporation. Clause 6 reads: 
The functions of the Corporation are - (0 such other functions in connexion with apples and pears as are provided by the regulations. 
The Opposition will not attempt to delete paragraph (f) of clause 6 although it does give power to the Corporation to extend by regulation its powers when we have, one would hope, in the Bill restrictions of a legislative nature. The other point is the more important one. We will be moving for the deletion of clause 7 (3). In an attempt to justify the provisions in clause 7 (3) the Minister in his second reading speech said: 
There is also expressed in Clause 7 (3) of the Bill a general requirement that the Corporation must comply with any directions given it by the Minister with respect to the performance of its functions and the exercise of its powers. 
This power of direction over the Corporation is a power which would only be drawn on in unusual circumstances. It might need to be used, for example, to restrain activity by the Corporation if such activity is having serious and undesirable repercussions in important areas outside the cognizance of the Corporation. 
I think the Government should make up its mind. It either has faith in this Corporation to act on behalf of the industry - in which case it will give it the power to carry out its responsibilities - or it should openly state that it has not any faith in the industry or the apple and pear growers representatives or the members of the Corporation who have special qualifications because there will be a head prefect to keep them in line and to overrule their decisions. I refer to the Minister for Primary Industry. Therefore we will be moving for the deletion of that sub-clause. 
In respect of the membership of the Corporation, 3 members with special qualifications are to be appointed by the Minister. It has been mentioned that the expertise of those people should be in marketing, transport and so on. One gets the impression that one of these members will be from the Australian Shippers Council. I hope that the Minister will adhere to the proposition that the members will have special qualifications. We do not want to see a unionist as one of the 3 members chosen just because he happens to be a unionist. If he is somebody with special qualifications in marketing or shipping that would be fair enough but he should not be appointed just because he happens to be unionist. 
The question of the levy also is of some interest. A levy is to be collected on fruit and fruit products sold locally, as I understand it. How will this levy be collected? What rate will be charged? In the second reading speech the Minister states that no final decision has been made in respect of the levy. The Minister said: 
The Government currently has under study, in consultation with the industry, the most practicable method of imposing and collecting such a levy and will be submitting measures to the Parliament for adoption in the near future. 
I would hope that when this is submitted to the Parliament that the growers who I believe generally are in support of this legislation will still support it and they will not be hit in what they consider to be an unfair way either in various parts of the industry or in total by the levy. 
Other speakers in this debate have mentioned apples. I think that is reasonable because apples represent the most important sector of this industry. But the fresh pear industry is of considerable importance in northern Victoria. The fresh pear industry has developed some very important new markets in South East Ask. It is not facing quite the same marketing difficulties for the future as is the apple industry. I believe that there is not the same sort of competition from other countries either in markets outside Europe or even during the off season in Europe itself on the fresh pear market. One can look ahead with reasonable confidence if income stability can be provided and a profitable return maintained for the growers in this industry. But this Bill falls far short of establishing a complete statutory marketing authority which would acquire the crop and provide financial stability. Many growers in the industry, rightly or wrongly, believed that such an authority would be established after Labor came to power. If that had been done perhaps our amendment tonight would not have had to list these particular points. With the present arrangements there are still serious deficiencies in the industry. 
There is the problem of providing immediate financial assistance to growers by way of compensation. Compensation was granted because of the 1972 revaluation of Australia's currency. This was considered by most to be an unsatisfactory form of compensation because of the way in which it was administered. A grower, whether he was a fresh fruit grower or a canned fruit grower, was limited to receiving a certain upper limit of compensation. Most growers who were solely producers of this type of crop were eligible for far more compensation than provided by this limit. Since the 1972 revaluation there has been a series of revaluations. I hope that' the Government can provide revaluation compensation to this industry in the immediate future to ensure more liquidity in the industry to help it with the costs of the season ahead. 
The second point in our amendment relates to the adjustment of the stabilisation scheme to provide for increased costs and freight rates. I think that is reasonable. In the long term a stabilisation scheme is still the best provider of some form of stability for this industry. But because of increased costs and particularly increased freight rates, the maximum levels of assistance which were provided when the Bill was introduced are no longer adequate and I believe that adjustments should be made to the maximum rates at present provided. 
The Labor Government in Tasmania promised that it would provide a guaranteed price to growers of export fruit. Ever since it has been trying to back out of that promise. We were told that the Premier of Tasmania was in Canberra again early this week, presumably on the same errand of asking the Commonwealth to take over responsibility for that which the Tasmanian Labor Government promised the growers of Tasmania. This is why this point is included in the Opposition amendment. The Tasmanian growers, particularly the apple growers, were told and believed that they would be given some guarantee to cover the cost of exports for this season. They really believed that the guarantee would be provided for more than one season, but at least for this season because of the serious conditions facing the industry. 
It is up to this Government to sort the matter out, either by itself or in conjunction with the Tasmanian Labor Government. Apparently the priorities of the Tasmanian Labor Government are such that it can spend a considerable amount of money on Lake Pedder and nothing to carry out its promise to provide some cover for the growers. It is up to these governments to sort out the matter. But I suggest that if the Tasmanian Government had its priorities right it would adhere to its promises. 
Finally, I turn to the matter of having elected representatives of growers on the Corporation as promised by a Labor spokesman prior to the last election. The honourable member for Corangamite and I have made this point. I am glad that this Apple and Pear Corporation is coming into being. It is one promise, or part of a promise, that this Government is fulfilling, even it is is only picking up the groundwork done by the previous Government. When one considers all the other problems the industry faces and the other promises made by a Labor opposition anxious to get into power, one would hope the Government will now fulfill those promises to a greater extent than it has done so far. 
 I propose an amendment to sub-clause (3) of clause 7. Sub-clause (3) reads: 
The Corporation shall comply with any directions given to it by the Minister with respect to the performance of its functions and the exercise of its powers. 
I move: 
Omit sub-clause (3). 
I have moved this amendment because a search of the legislation relating to other statutory authorities has revealed that this sub-clause gives additional power to the Minister for Primary Industry. Admittedly it is the same as that contained in the wheat legislation which this side of the chamber attempted to have amended recently because it showed that ministerial discretion in this regard is something that should not be given lightly. In respect of the Wool Corporation the reserve power vested in the Minister concerns only the reserve price. I think that is reasonable because a considerable sum of Commonwealth money is involved. Under the apple and pear stabilisation legislation the reserve power relates to minimum prices at which fruit will be sold overseas. I would consider that to be reasonable in view of the Commonwealth commitment to the stabilisation fund. Sub-clause (3) reads: 
The Corporation shall comply with any directions given to it by the Minister with respect to .the performance of its functions and the exercise of its powers. 
This is a very broad undefined power that the Minister can exercise. The apple and pear legislation provides under section 18 of the relevant Act that the Minister has the final say in determining the prices at which fresh apples and pears can be sold overseas. In other words, the Minister already has the power to prevent the apple and pear industry from selling fruit at an uncommercial price which will lead to an excessive drain on Commonwealth finance. Admittedly that is not completely complementary legislation because that scheme could end. But one may ask: If the power is not provided to enable the Minister to ensure that the industry sells fruit at a commercial price, why should it be in the Bill? 
When one looks at the wheat situation one wonders whether this power is put in this legislation so that the Minister can have special power to enable him to make to another country a political sale which is not in the best interests of the apple and pear industry. That is the reason why we have moved for the deletion of this power. 
I believe that the Government should be honest about this clause and say if it wants the clause to remain in the Bill that it has no faith in the ability of the Apple and Pear Corporation to look after the wellbeing of the industry. If it does have faith in the ability of the industry why does it put this clause in the Bill in view of the fact that a similar provision is not contained in the general gamut of statutory marketing authority legislation? If the Government agrees that this is not necessary and says that it does have faith in the Corporation to carry out its functions I would hope that it would also agree to the removal of this clause from the Bill. As it is proposed to move this amendment in the Senate the Opposition is quite prepared in the meantime before this legislation goes to the Senate to agree to withdrawing the motion for the deletion of sub-clause (3) if the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  who is handling this Bill tonight, perhaps with the assistance of departmental officers, can show good reason why this sub-clause is necessary for the administration of the Corporation. JJ he cannot - and I believe he cannot - then this amendment will be moved in the Senate. Because we believe this is an unnecessary power to be given to a Minister, because it is against the best interests of the industry and because it is detrimental to this new Corporation which is being set up, I have moved for its deletion from the Bill. 
This is rather a curious situation. The Government proposes to deny the freedom of consumer choice by saying that if consumer choice is developed through promotion and marketing of a particular type of product - say for orange juice as distinct from milk - the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  has the power to prevent this natural consumer choice from having effect. It is the same as saying that the Wool Corporation should have power to prevent synthetics from being manufactured in Australia if their manufacture will be to the detriment of the wool industry. If I am not interpreting the position correctly I should like to be given some examples of what is the real position. If the apple industry starts to sell cider at the expense of the citrus industry because of the extra promotion of apples which this corporation will engage in, will that mean that the industry will be prevented from actually selling the cider because it might be hurting the citrus industry or some other industry? It seems a very curious situation. 
asked the Minister for Secondary Industry, upon notice: 
Are motor cars manufactured in Melbourne sold there and in other capital cities at a uniform price. 
Are car buyers in Victorian country areas charged up to $40 extra for vehicle delivery. 
If the position is as stated, will he arrange with the manufacturers for a uniform price to be charged throughout Australia. 
There are grave problems regarding some of the financial provisions of this Bill. One of them is whether the taxpayers of Australia, as a right, will be entitled to receive the $16 a day bed cover. The levy of 1.35 per cent is not a general revenue tax; it is a special additional tax. Yet one reads in the Bill that unless agreement is reached with a State, all hospital patients - and by 'hospital patients' I do not mean those covered by the terms used in this Bill, but all people who are hospitalised in a State - are to be deprived of their right to receive the $16 a day bed payment. The question involved is: Are these people as Australian citizens to receive this payment as a right, because a special additional tax is to be levied on them as on everybody else, or is the payment to be made only in those States which have reached an agreement with the Commonwealth? 
If the States reach an agreement with the Commonwealth, one sees other grave dangers. For example, because a legislative amendment is necessary before this payment of $16 a day is altered, does it mean that once the figure of $16 a day is set that level of payment will remain for all time? The situation will not be so bad with public hospitals because the difference between what is provided and the net operating costs to the State system will be split between the Commonwealth and the States on a 50-50 basis. But with the private hospitals, once the payment is set at $16 a day it will remain at that rate for all time. It is not as though a special account will operate which will keep lifting the figure provided to private hospitals. So one can see some of the fears of the private hospitals in this matter. 
Another interesting point relates to the schedule of agreement. If one were ever presenting unlimited power to a Minister to dictate to the States so that he had their health care systems at his mercy, one is doing it in Schedule 2 of this Bill because it is so terribly vague. It leaves the Minister all the power he wants in order to dictate to the States. The Schedule provides that an eligible person who is a private patient in a recognised hospital or being a hospital patient in a recognised hospital elects to pay hospital charges in respect of accommodation in a single room or small ward in a hospital is to be charged only in accordance with the scale of charges set out in the agreement. Does this mean that once an agreement has been reached between a State and the Minister, that State - although constitutionally hospital services are supposed to be within its power - is unable to alter the bed charges without the approval of the Federal Minister, therefore making him once more the dictator of the whole of the Australian hospital system? 
Several other curious points emerge from the vagueness of this Bill. One of the weaknesses of the previous scheme was that eye care services were excluded from it. An eye care practitioner demonstrated outside this Parliament on this very point. The old argument between the ophthalmologists and the optometrists prevented a completely universal medical benefits scheme because eye care services were excluded from it. One looks with wonder at the failure of this Government, which appears to be so all-knowing, so well ahead with its ability to sort out the problems of medical care services in Australia, even to solve this weakness in the previous system. A grandiose scheme to cure all the ills of our health scheme has been set out in principle. But it is delightfully vague and contradictory in much of its detail. Yet this Government, with its tremendous ability to overcome all the problems of health care services in Australia, has not been able to take one step forward to overcoming one of the minor weaknesses of the previous scheme concerning optometrists and ophthalmologists and to formulate a truly universal scheme which includes those people who have eye problems. 
Another interesting question concerns private hospitals, and one looks particularly at religious hospitals in this regard. What happens if a religious hospital is forced to accept some public hospital patients, to become part public? 
With the power of the Minister - and there are no safeguards in this legislation against this at all, although there was a vague promise in the White Paper that there would be a safeguard - what happens if the hospital staff is required to carry out abortions in that hospital contrary to the wishes of the administration and the staff of that hospital? This is no vague fear. This question was put up by the private hospitals, and in response a statement was included in the White Paper? But where is the legislative protection for the people running the religious hospitals who did not ask to be forced into this situation? If one wants to use the Minister's words, they are acting as good Samaritans. I do not take kindly to the way in which he used the term 'Good Samaritan' in this context, in throwing a bait to the private hospitals on this point. Where is the protection for the staff of these hospitals? 
One can go on and on talking about the problems. I turn to what I believe is the greatest danger in this Bill. When one talks about the need for improving hospital services and considers the situation of hospital bed availability, one finds that 20 per cent of a'l Australian hospital beds are in private hospitals run mainly by religious organisations. Under the Government's scheme, these organisations running those hospitals will not extend the hospitals or provide additional beds. I think that many of them will stick to their original vocations and possibly move out of providing hospitalisation. Where will the additional beds be provided? The absurd situation is developing where this Bill will create an increasing shortage of hospital beds and another Bill, which we will debate tonight, contains special measures to try to overcome the problems that this Bill creates. The Bill which we will discuss tonight provides special financial assistance for hospitals and for hospital construction. 
People in Australia, living in a democratic society, have had the choice provided by a dual hospital system - public hospitals and private hospitals run mainly by religious organisations. Because of the greatly increased cost of insurance for private hospital treatment and because there will be no special account provisions which will increase hospital insurance costs - probably the insurance funds will reintroduce the provisions relating to pre-existing ailment conditions and so forth - private hospitals will be forced to open their doors to public bed patients. The Minister will tell them how many beds he wants, and he gives no guarantee whether the supplementary payment will meet the full cost of hospitalising public bed patients. One looks in particular at some private hospitals with special account provisions which at present take over from the benefits provided by ordinary funds after 84 days hospitalisation. Some private hospitals specialise in long term patients, such as those being treated for psychiatric or orthopaedic reasons. Doctor Deeble has stated to the private insurance funds that they will not be able to insure beyond 180-odd days, anyway. We do not know this for a fact. It is another of the delightful uncertainties of this situation because the relevant legislation is not before us. 
Some people are in need of special care and should have special consideration. They include these psychiatric and orthopaedic patients. Hospitals such as St John of God Hospital at Brighton, another at Ryde and various others in the country specialise in this form of hospitalisation. Possibly they will be forced out of existence. People who should be considered specially and placed in this category will be forced to return to the public hospital system. If they had wanted the services of a public hospital system they would have gone there in the first place. 
When we speak about freedom of choice and people's rights, we must look at what the vast majority of Australians want. The vast majority of Australians have made it clear that they want something more than standard ward accommodation. When we talk about some service being available to everybody and the whole community being involved, why should we drag everybody down, or attempt to drag everybody down, to that standard level? What this legislation will do, if it is passed, is to polarise hospitalisation in this country. The community will no longer support as it has in the past country hospitals, city hospitals and particularly religious hospitals through agencies and auxiliaries which have worked to provide better facilities and extra care through those hospitals. People will say: 'The Government will do that'. There will be no need for such activities by them and this work will not be done. 
What will happen is this: The very rich will still go their own way, far more than they do now, and the connection that they have with the community through these hospitals will be lost. An inordinate percentage of doctors and special care services will be provided for the wealthy who can afford them. One only has to look at what is happening in New Zealand at present with respect to the construction of private hospitals for profit. The rich will still have their special hospital arrangements; the rest of the community will be forced down to the lower standard. So, instead of having a hospital system in which all members of the community can share and for which all members of the community will work, we will have this polarisation of the rich and the poor. The average standard of hospitals in this country will drop. This will be to the detriment of Australia. 
lt is an interesting coincidence, I think, that we should be debating the Hospitals and Health Services Commission Bill tonight when referendums were held on Saturday. The referendums were an attempt to transfer more power from the States to the Commonwealth Government, and of course they failed. I know this Bill was introduced before the referendums were held, but after reading the provisions of the Bil! one should ask: Why bother to have referendums, because these powers can quite easily be transferred from the States to the Commonwealth just by a simple Bill such as that which we are discussing. If one reads the Bill one finds that that is exactly what it does. Until now the States have had the major responsibility for hospital and health care services, particularly the physical construction of these services, and yet here we have them, to a certain extent, being made redundant or bypassed and, until this amendment was promoted, not even being consulted, so that the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  has once again this direct power from Canberra over this most important aspect of our lives. 
Another interesting question, I think, is: Why should this Bill be introduced at this time? An Interim Commission was set up to investigate priorities in this area of health care services. One would assume that a more substantive report than the one which has been presented will be made and that when that report is made that will be the time to transfer the Interim Commission to a permanent Commission. Why are we having the change at this time, particularly when the States say - and we have telegrams to this effect - that it is a breach of an understanding reached with the States earlier this year when the Interim Commission was first established? Is it that the  Chairman  of the present Interim Commission feels that he would like a more permanent appointment before he completes the first part of his work? Is it that other members of the Commission themselves feel that they would like a permanent appointment? 
What is to be the procedure for appointing the permanent Chairman? Rumour has it that  Dr Sax  will be the  Chairman  of the permanent Commission, the same as he is  Chairman  of the Interim Commission. That may be the best decision but will anybody else be considered? What experience does he have, particularly within our Federal system in Australia, in a senior administrative role of this nature? I think some very interesting questions can be asked on this point. If this Interim Commission has not completed its investigative role of the priorities for health care services, why does it suddenly switch and have these extra powers given to it - and they are extra powers - in order to provide financial grants for these services? I believe that the States have some very real fears for the future about this proposition. I look at some aspects of this Bill in particular. Clause 5 (4) states: 
An organization or person may accept a grant made under paragraph (1) (c) by way of or for the purposes of pharmaceutical, sickness or hospital benefits or the provision of medical or dental services, and may give effect to any condition subject to which the grant is made, notwithstanding anything contained in a law of a State. 
In other words, because of the way this Bill was originally drafted, without allowing for the amendment, the Commonwealth - the Minister - can completely not only disregard the State but also go against the actual wishes of a State on a particular issue. Clause 5 (1) (d) states that the function of the Commission will be:  to investigate means of securing and, with the approval of the Minister, to arrange for, the representation of Australia or the Commission on State, Territory, regional and local government organizations involved in health care; 
Does that mean, as it appears to mean, that the Government of Australia will have its own representative on all of these boards down to a local area community centre or hospital - the State does not have representatives on them at the moment - and that it will also have representatives on all of the State organisations? If it is intended to investigate means of securing such representation on all of these boards and authorities down to a local level, one can imagine what it will mean. It will probably mean that those who play along with the wishes of the Federal Government and agree to somebody being on a board or authority will get their money, but that if they do not agree to have some Federal representative who will pull the strings at every level they will not get this grant at all. 
This is to me a very dangerous infringement of any sort of autonomy, and it goes against the assertions of the Minister's whole proposition that local areas or regions are best able to care for things themselves and should have some power in this regard. As I see it, with a member of the Commonwealth Government perhaps on all of these bodies, these areas or regions will have less and less power than they have ever had before. One also reads with interest sub-paragraph (v) of paragraph (e) of clause 5 (1) which states that the function of the Commission is to achieve:  the avoidance of any unnecessary duplication in health services; 
That must be one of the best laughs coming up to Christmas. When the Commonwealth intrudes in this field when it never has done so before, it can mean nothing else but increased duplication. That would be one of the best laughs we have had this week, if it was not so serious. 
 It is hard to be amused in this place sometimes when one sees what is coming from the Government. There are particular problems for country areas and it has been stated - and I think sincerely - by some honourable members that this proposal will be a help to those areas. I hope that in the long run it will be a help but initially at least that will not be the case, and there are grave fears in country areas on this point. Subparagraph (i) of paragraph (e) of clause 5 (1) provides that the function of the Commission is to achieve:  the organisation of health services on a regional basis; 
Then the Minister in his second reading speech said: 
The Government has committed itself to a policy of promoting the regionalisation and modernisation of hospitals, linked with the development of community based health services and preventive health programs. 
Country areas, particularly the smaller country areas, fear that under this so-called regionalisation - and I hope that the Minister can reassure me on this later - their hospitals will be closed because it will be considered more efficient to have them on a more regional basis than is the case now or that these hospitals could be forced perhaps to become nursing homes under Government direction. Every country community deserves and needs, if it is to have a future, not only its own hospital but also its own medical, dental and other health care services. This is a difficult enough problem for these small areas at the moment. I believe that it has meant that the small country communities provide on a self-help basis to a far greater extent than does any other section of this community, whether it is helping to support a doctor to stay in the area by the provision of a house or whether it is making some guarantee of income or salary. I think that these small country communities give to a hospital on a far greater per capita basis than is the case in the bigger cities. 
Country areas have this fear concerning not only hospitals but also doctors. If we are going to have these regional centres, these community centres - and the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  mentioned that he would like to have some of them in his electorate - they will have to be staffed. They will have to operate on a salary basis. What happens when you have a salary basis? You do not have long working hours. I think that this is fairly understandable. Those people want the same provisions as those which apply to anybody else who works for a salary. This means that we need more doctors. It is not as if a magic wand could be waved to create more doctors. We have a shortage of doctors in this country at the moment, particularly in country areas. The country people fear that the attraction of perhaps an easier vocation in the cities will lead to increased shortages in country towns because the doctors will move to these other centres. 
The honourable member for Scullin mentioned the United States experience, amongst other things, as something we should look at. Perhaps we should. One can see from that experience the problems that that country has had in retaining doctors in smaller country towns. The realisation of this has led to a federal-state financial arrangement which applies in some states of that country, to try to increase the attractiveness of country areas in order to retain doctors there. I would hope that one thing this Commission could do would be not only to establish these centres but also to provide financial guarantees to doctors in small country towns so that it would be attractive for them to stay there. This would apply not only to doctors but also to the other health care services. The honourable member for Scullin said - I am not criticising him in this regard - that there were not enough general practitioners in his electorate and that there were no general practitioners at one end of it. But that end may be only a few miles - per haps less than that - from the other end of the honourable member's electorate, and public transport is available. But what happens in the country towns? If centres are established at Ballarat, Bendigo, La Trobe Valley and Albury-Wodonga, this may sound fine in theory. But if in practice it means that in setting up these centres facilities are taken away from the country towns up to 100 miles around them, the quality of life of people in those areas will be severely limited and their capability to obtain modern health care services will be restricted. There is no public transport in these areas such as is available in the city electorates in which honourable members are concerned because a doctor may not be available within an area of one or two square miles. 
Labor Party members seem to be wondering - we read about this in the Press - why they are not more popular in country areas and why all their expensive proposals on one subject or another are not going down with country people. The point is that these expensive proposals never get through to these country areas. As I said before, it is one thing for Labor Party members to think that they are doing wonders in a few provincial cities. But at the same time, it is quite another thing when these country people see the doctors and the dentists leaving these smaller country towns. This is what the country people see, fear and realise is contained in these bland promises that somehow or other things will improve for them. 
The Opposition is not opposing the Bill, with the exception of the amendment that has been moved. I had hoped that there would have been more time to consider it, not just for us here in this Parliament but also for the State Parliaments. They should have been consulted at an earlier time than they were. Had that been done, certain dangerous provisions in the Bill would have been deleted and certain others included, such as those suggested by the honourable member for Isaacs. I hope that when the Bill is considered in the Senate certain of these provisions will be rectified. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the weighting of the Consumer Price Index was last altered in 1966-67. 
If so, as mutton consumption has dropped 37 per cent since then, is the importance of mutton prices as a cause of inflation greatly exaggerated. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. The interim  report of the committee of inquiry into aged persons housing released last week recommends increases in Government subsidies and acceptable upper cost limits. In presenting the report, the Minister stated that it will be some time before a policy decision is made on these recommendations. Is the Minister aware that his statement has added further confusion to the already uncertain position of organisations considering building programs? These organisations do not want to proceed because of inflated building costs in relation to subsidies; but, if they intend to wait for a Government policy decision, they may be forced nevertheless to proceed in the future on a more unsatisfactory basis than now because the decision still has not been made. Does the Minister agree that these people face a dilemma? How long will they have to wait for a decision? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Is it a fact, as stated by a State colleague,  Mr A.  Wade, M.L.A. for Newcastle, in a letter to a Deniliquin resident and reported by him in a local newspaper, that the Minister had told  Mr Wade  that the Omega navigation station will not be built at Deniliquin. 
If so, where is the most favoured area for the establishment of the station. 
asked the Minister for Secondary 
Industry, upon notice: 
What quantity of jam has been imported from what countries and  at  what cost during thelast 3 years. 
What percentage of total jam consumption do these imports represent. 
What tariff applies to jam imports and how will the 25 per cent tariff cut affect the quantity of imports. 
This Bill does 2 things. It extends the fruitgrowing reconstruction scheme for another 12 months and it also lifts the payment for fresh fruit from $200 an acre to a maximum of $250 an acre. Both of these amendments are minor, and they are acceptable to the Opposition. This scheme had a very difficult birth some 12 months ago mainly because of complications arising from a severe means test. The former Minister for Primary Industry, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  eased the means test on two separate occasions, in August and October last year, and because of this, the reconstruction scheme was considered to be a reasonable proposition if goodwill and flexibility in administration occurred at both Federal and State levels. 
I intend to restrict my comments basically to discussing Victoria and to the irrigated areas of northern Victoria - the canned and fresh peach and pear areas - because these are some of the major areas affected, or to be affected by the scheme. The history of the application of the scheme in those areas is less than happy. By the time the second alteration to the means test was made, the fruitgrowing season was at hand and no time was available for growers to make decisions. Also, a great deal of confusion was created by various Labor members of Parliament and Labor candidates for election to Parliament who said that if the Australian Labor Party became the Government, the means test on eligibility would be completely abolished. I should like to quote an article in the Griffith Area News' of 16 October 1972 in which reference was made to what the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  had said. The article states: 
The tree pull scheme is inadequate and hopeless if a means test is applied and State debts deducted from any compensation money',  Mr Grassby  declared. 
We will insist that the means test be deleted and that if money is to be made available it should be for the grower to decide what to do with it. 
So, one can understand the confusion in growers' minds at that time last year, when one of the leading spokesmen for the Labor Party said that if Labor became the Government, the means test on the tree pull scheme would be completely removed. However, once Labor came to power as the Government, this undertaking evidently was forgotten because since that time there have been 2 surveys of this scheme and nothing further has been done to ease the means test. The only action along these lines was taken by the previous Minister, the honourable member for New England. 
In my opinion, the scheme in Victoria has been marred by lack of commonsense in its application, lack of goodwill - in fact, one gets the impression sometimes that certain people do not want the scheme to succed at all - and lack of flexibility in administration both at the Federal and State levels. I will give honourable members some examples of this. The first example I give relates to the Victorian administration of the scheme, the Victorian Rural Finance and Settlement Commission. In order to decide how much per acre will be paid for canning peach or pear trees, the Victorians have instituted a points system., and in this system are included certain criteria such as the age of the trees, which is fair enough, and also the shareholding of the grower which determines his cannery access. By some strange means, the Commission has arrived at the conclusion that if a grower has few shares or, because of quota arrangements, poor access to a cannery, he should be offered a lower compensation value for the removal of his trees than if he had good cannery access. This situation is completely topsy-turvy. 
One would think that the people who should be assisted to leave the industry are those who do not have a ready market for their fruit, namely, those with poor cannery access who are restricted by cannery quotas from selling their fruit. They should be offered the highest possible figure to help them leave the industry because they are the ones without any future in the industry. Yet, in this topsy-turvy situation in Victoria, those people are offered the least. This anomaly has been pointed out on a number of occasions both by me and by members of the Northern Victorian Fruit-growers Association at both Federal and State levels, yet nothing has been done about it. This is a very good example where one could wonder whether or not people really want the scheme to work. 
For example, as at 30 November this situation has resulted in an average figure of $259 an acre being paid in compensation for canning fruit in Victoria. According to the original Bill, the average figure to be achieved was $350 an acre. One had hoped that the generous administration of the scheme, which I believe has been one of the features of the general rural reconstruction scheme, would also have been applied in this instance so that, at least in the initial stages of the scheme, the average compensation payable may have been even higher than $350 an acre. If necessary, under pressure it could have been reduced later. But we find that, 12 months after the scheme has begun, the compensation being paid, on an average, is approximately $100, or 30 per cent less, than what it is possible to pay. How can one say that it is an incentive to make the scheme work, when the administrators of the scheme are paying only 60 per cent to 70 per cent of what the grower is entitled to? 
Another point relating to the lack of flexibility in administration of the scheme concerns the household area. In many cases, under the clear fell operation, the grower must leave the property. Particularly if they are new Australians and are unsure of themselves in this country or if they are older persons who could possibly retire, the one thing they want to retain is their house in which to live. 
It has been suggested both by myself and by the fruit growers in the area that surely when a clear fell operation takes place or when the Rural Finance and Settlement Commission takes over the property a subdivision should be made so that the house and perhaps half an acre around it can be retained by the grower. This would not inhibit the sale of the property because people who would be buying this property would be buying it basically as bare land for an extension of their farming operations - most likely of a grazing nature. But these people, because of their fear of being put out without a house to live in 'have refused to accept any proposition put forward to them. At least 20 new Australians as well as a number of old Australians have come to me and have said that they want to get out. They have no financial future in the industry at all but where can they go if they are left without a house to live in? In this area of northern Victoria, because of the closer settlement, it is possible that they could still have this house on a property and drive to work at Shepparton, Numurkah or one of the other major towns in the area. This is another example of lack of flexibility in the scheme. It has nothing to do with the original legislation itself, but it is just cussedness in the way it is being administered that is restricting the success of the scheme and restricting social justice to these growers. 
Another point arises on the question of what happens to any excess money after the sale of a property when it has been compulsorily acquired by the State administering authority. For example in Victoria we have a case where a grower was bankrupt.  His  place was compulsorily acquired; it had to be compul sorily acquired - I have no argument with this - so that terms of agreement could be reached with creditors. Because of the proximity of this piece of land to Shepparton it had quite a high real estate value. This property has been sold, the creditors have been paid and one could even pay back the tree pull compensation which the State authority - the Rural Finance and Settlement Commission - claimed from the Federal Government. But approximately Si 0,000 to $12,000 remains undistributed. One fears at the moment that the State authority - the Rural Finance and Settlement Commission - is going to retain this $10,000 to $12,000. That to me would be completely unfair, unjust and unreasonable. Surely this person who saved for years and who paid out on his property for years but fell behind with his payments should be paid the balance after these other commitments have been met and this money should not be kept by the State authority which could make a profit out of money - Federal money - which at no time has been at any cost to itself. That is another area where I believe the Commonwealth should take a far harder line and tell the States: 'It is not your money; it belongs to the grower once all the debts have been settled'. 
One of the ironies of the scheme is that in the Goulburn Valley it was aimed in general at canning pears. But more peaches have been pulled than pears and this is because of the settlement policies in the area, unsuitable soils and climate problems where some peach trees have been planted. This year 3 additional problems have arisen and I want to make 3 points on how the scheme itself as distinct from altering Victoria's criteria system - the household area etc. - could help from now on. Fifty per cent of the peach trees of Northern Victoria have died because of the wettest year on record. This will mean a shortage of peaches this season and, because of lack of financial incentive and poor outlook for the future, in the past few years not enough peach trees have been planted to maintain peach production, the peach tree having a very short life as distinct from the pear tree. 
At the moment in the Goulburn Valley there are orchards where some peach trees are still living and some peach trees have died. I would ask that the administrators of this scheme be flexible enough to allow dead peach trees to be included for tree-pull compensation because it is a terrible situation - and not a workable one - to have some trees living and. some trees dead. I do not think it is good enough to say: 'Well, if a tree is dead it has to be pulled anyway'. There is also a point made in the second reading speech which I think is completely wrong, and I agree with the member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  in this regard. The second reading speech states: 
Since the scheme is designed to assist horticulturists who are in financial difficulties the Australian Government has taken the view that no useful purpose would be served by allowing growers after the extension of the scheme was announced to withdraw applications, take one more crop off their trees and reapply for assistance, lt was considered that such a course of action was likely to aggravate a grower's financial problems. 
To me this shows once more the remoteness of the administrators of this scheme from the real life situation facing orchardists. A crop shortage is facing the industry this year because of the season and we have this problem of some trees still living and some dead. 
Surely the sensible thing to do would be to allow growers to take this crop off because the season is just about here again and expense has been incurred for spraying etc. and, in conjunction with allowing the dead trees to be included, after this season the growers should pull the trees and claim compensation. It would do 2 things. Firstly, it would improve the financial position of the grower - not make it worse - because he has already incurred the majority of his debts and there is a hope of some income coming in if he is allowed to pick; and secondly, it would help the fruit industry generally this year when there is this critical shortage of canning peaches and even possibly canning pears because of blackspot and other problems. 
The third point I wish to make is that because of this problem of peach trees or peach tonnage for the future the scheme should be amended to allow certain types of peach trees - certain varieties which are in demand in the market and which are seasonally the best - to be replanted in certain areas where it is known that the soil and the climate are correct even though the grower himself has claimed compensation for tree pull. Under the scheme basically a person has to sign an agreement that he will not plant fruit trees again for 5 years after he has accepted compensation, yet in a letter dated 15 October the Minister for Primary Industry has told me that in Tasmania, provided 2 types of apples are planted, this requirement that no fruit tree be replanted for 5 years after accepting compen- sation will be waived for apple orchardists in that State. There are certain conditions. I think that should be done for the peach section of the canning fruit industry as well. If it is good enough for the Tasmanian apple grower where there is not the forecast of a crop shortage as there is with canning peaches in the future, it is good enough to be done for the peach canning industry as well. It could be hedged - and should be hedged - with requirements that only certain varieties be planted and that these varieties be planted only in certain soils. 
If some of these ways of being more flexible with the scheme both at the State and at the Federal level are carried out - I have enumerated quite a number of them - I believe there is still hope for this scheme to be a far more successful one to help the industry and to help the growers with social justice than it has been up to date. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Have the States failed to spend within the allocated time all the finance provided by the Commonwealth for education. 
If so, in which (a) States and (b) categories has this happened, and what sum is involved in each case. 
Have extensions of time been granted for any programs; if so, which programs. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice:  (0 When will the Government's stated policy of establishing a Statutory Development Assistance Agency to administer our foreign aid program be implemented. 
Does the Government intend to allow for deductibility for donations to voluntary foreign aid organisations, and/ or does the Government intend to provide matching contributions in respect of money raised by these organisations. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Can he say whether the Governments of West Germany, France and Italy have placed restrictions on the use of certain varieties of rapeseed oil foodstuffs because of the health danger from erucic acid. 
Will his Department place similar restrictions in Australia, and publicise the health danger resulting from the use of certain varieties of rapeseed oil. 
I address my question to the Minister for Labour. In doing so I welcome the Minister's statement that the criteria for payment of unemployment benefits are to be reviewed. I ask the Minister to consider in the review the present anomaly brought about by the payment of adult unemployment benefit to 16 to 18 year olds whereby a 16 year old girl receiving unemployment benefit in many cases is paid more than if she were an apprentice. Will either the benefit be reduced to juniors or the payments to apprentices increased so that a genuine incentive will be created for young people to work and to enter apprenticeships? 
Nothing illustrates better the double standards and the anti-rural attitude of this Government than some of the examples used by the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  In his concluding remarks he said that somehow or other it was wrong for us to import superphosphate from Christmas Island or Nauru, hinting that we were getting it from cheap labour countries. Yet his whole tariff policy regarding the textile industry in Australia has been designed to open the floodgates of Australia to textiles from cheap labour countries. Why have one standard for one section of the community and another standard for another section? The Minister talked about the development of the Australian superphosphate industry. Nothing will retard the development of this industry and of these deposits in North Queensland more than the present minerals and energy policy of this Government, and let the Government bear witness to that as time passes. 
The important factor concerning the announcement of the ending of the superphosphate bounty is that it is a watershed for the non-metropolitan areas of Australia. No longer will anybody outside the great metropolitan areas of Australia give any credence to anything that this Government does. They will accept everything that this Government does as being against their interests. The ending of the superphosphate bounty comes as the king hit after all the preceding measures which the Government has taken and which have been aimed against the rural sector of Australia. No matter what vacillations take place in the final determination of what will happen to the superphosphate bounty and no matter what plaintive cries come from members of the Labor Party who supposedly represent rural electorates, the action which the Government has taken against the rural sector will be seen clearly and precisely by the people in the country and their attitude will be expressed at the next Federal election. 
It is of some interest to note that the termination of the superphosphate bounty is a watershed not just because the bounty is to end but because of the way in which the termination of the bounty was announced. How much consideration has been given to the views of the so-called champions of rural industry on the Labor side of the House? The fact that none of them is to speak in this debate is a clear indication of what I am saying. Along with the 2 Opposition speakers who have taken part in this debate, I exclude the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  from any criticisms that I make in this regard because he is away on urgent business connected with the floods. But perhaps he does not have to be here because one of the contradictions and ironies of the present situation is that there was a definite announcement that the superphosphate subsidy would end but there was no statement on the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty. That bounty comes up for review at the same time as the superphosphate bounty. The nitrogenous fertiliser bounty applies basically to the sugar industry and the fruit industry. Perhaps it means that of all the socalled rural members in the Labor Party, the only one with any clout is the honourable member for Dawson who often is referred to as the minister for sugar. 
One thing which the last  speaker,  the Minister for Overseas Trade, could have said, was that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  would make a clear statement about what is to happen to the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty, seeing that he was so concerned that primary producers should be given plenty of warning about ending the superphosphate bounty. If the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty is not to end, does this mean a one-sided policy again? If it is going to end, I think it shows up how hollow are any claims by any rural member of the Labor Party that he represents his electorate. As a challenge to that statement, I urge all rural members of the Labor Party in this Parliament to distribute in their electorates the speeches of the Prime Minister, the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and the Minister for Overseas Trade who represent those 3 well known rural electorates. If it shows nothing else, it shows that these Labor members who represent rural electorates either are not counted - and obviously they were not counted when the decision to end the superphosphate bounty was made - or they are not prepared to stand up and continue to say things that they cannot fulfil, as the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  has done for many years. He has shown himself to be a hollow statesman. But the problem with the Government's attitude to rural industry is that it is based on false assumptions because the Government is ignorant of the nature of rural industry. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was saying that the disastrous approach by the Labor Government to agricultural policy is based on its ignorance of the facts of the rural situation and the big city bias of its strength within the Party, which is shown by the fact that not one rural member from the Government side will be speaking on this issue. These facts have led the Government to base its arguments today on certain false assumptions. The first one is that it takes a short term view of agriculture when agriculture is basically a long term industry involving the questions of seasonal variations, cyclical fluctuations in overseas market opportunities and so on. The figures cited by both the Minister for Overseas Trade and the Treasurer have been based on only the last 2 years. If they had looked at the figures over the last 10 years there would have been a very great difference. One could then see that one has to look at rural industry on a long term basis. In that 10-year period the average income of primary producers was less than the average income of all Australians. I believe that in this present period this will still be the case. In addition, what the Government has done, culminating in the withdrawal of the superphosphate bounty, is to put into motion such disincentives to continue to update agriculture which will not become obvious for some years, but will act to the detriment of Australia over the long term both in reducing income to farmers and in increasing the cost of food to consumers. 
Even if we accepted the argument put forward by the Government, if Government supporters were honest and sincere they would have to say that if conditions were so prosperous for agriculture at the moment that a bounty was not needed, then in return they would guarantee that the moment prices dropped the subsidy or bounty would be reintroduced. That would be the minimum position they would have to take to be seen as being sincere and logical, and not by referring the question to the Industries Assistance Commission which may or may not agree with the Government's proposal. But to do exactly as the Prime Minister did on the question, namely, to say that the subsidy would be discontinued without the guarantee that the moment prices dropped the subsidy would be reintroduced, is wrong. This Government so far has not been prepared to do this. One can only deduce from this that it is not sincere. 
The second false assumption is that Government supporters believe that too much has been done for the farmers in Australia and that somehow or other they are redressing the balance by their actions. In debates in this House we have heard examples cited of other countries in relation to their health system, their education system and other things. If one continued to compare other countries with Australia one would see that in every advanced agricultural country such as those in the European Economic Community, Canada, the United States of America, New Zealand and South Africa, support measures and incentive programs for agriculture are greater than those in Australia. So if one wanted to use an international comparison, even for the period when we were in Government, Australia would not come out of it well, and would certainly come out in a very poor light at present. This is because agriculture is different and requires different policies. 
The Government's inability to understand the problems has led to the third false assumption. The Treasurer used the argument that if we are to have this payment system we should have it on a welfare basis. He cited the cases of big sheep farmers or wheat growers. The honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  made the point that in percentage terms it helps the small farmers more than it helps the big farmer. But in addition to that, there are 2 other arguments. The one time that this Government has put this policy of welfare into play in agriculture it has been disastrous. That was with one of its fruit compensation schemes because of currency revaluation whereby it paid $12 a ton up to the welfare cutoff point on the one hand, and on the other hand took away $10 a ton right across the board. Nobody in the fruit industry wants a repeat of that welfare performance. The Government also misses the main point, namely, that if $60m is being expended on a superphosphate bounty it is up to the policy formers to see that that $60m is spent as efficiently as possible. The most efficient way to spend it is on an industry basis to produce the most food and the cheapest food for the people of Australia and the world. The Treasurer also said that the way the bounty was paid hurt the poor people in the country. The policy the Government is carrying out is hurting the poor and ordinary people far more because fertiliser contractors, fencing contractors and service people in rural industry are losing their jobs because of the Government's policies on agriculture. 
The Government also tried to claim credit for the upturn in world food prices. That started in 1972 and was a result of natural circumstances. If the Government can claim credit for droughts in other countries, it should go on the international stage and say so. But the point in this debate is that this action, coming on top of the other actions of an antirural nature by this Government, is a watershed which has meant that no longer will people in Australia place any trust in or give any credence to anything this Government does. It is ruining the long term incentives that are required for agriculture to remain efficient and to continue to produce food cheaper in Australia than in any other country in the world. 
The Country Party joins with the Government and the Liberal Party in supporting the proposed amendment of the River Murray Waters Act to safeguard the superannuation rights of present officeholders of the River Murray Commission and to encourage staff recruitment from other sources, including transfers from Commonwealth employment. In his second reading speech the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  referred to changes pending in the River Murray Waters Agreement and River Murray administration generally. It is obvious that with the growing population along the river, particularly in the Albury-Wodonga complex, and with tourist developments downstream the problem of pollution and salinity is increasing. This raises some important questions for the future of the River Murray Commission whose officeholders we are discussing today, including widening the powers of the Commission to include control over water quality as well as water quantity. This means the power to regulate discharges of any type of pollution from any source into the River Murray - pollution which will affect people further downstream in the Sunraysia area and in South Australia generally. Of course such pollution would affect the water supply of Adelaide itself. A national objective we should have is the safeguarding of Australia's most important water lifeline. 
One should seriously consider widening the powers of the Commission to allow it to have a greater say in future on the question of the discharge of water from the Snowy Mountains weirs and hydro-electric stations into the river system through the Hume Weir or the Murrumbidgee and downstream. This is another aspect that I hope the Government will bear in mind in any consideration of widening the Commission's powers. The Gutteridge report on salinity in the River Murray recommends a number of high priority antisalinity measures to bring about a quick reduction of salinity in the river. I understand that some projects from the States involved - this is in addition to the River Murray Commission's project at Lake Victoria - should be ready for presentation to the River Murray Commission and to the Commonwealth for funding. If, in his reply today, the Minister can make an announcement or give an assurance that funds will be available for any of these most important salinity projects it will give encouragement and confidence to the people living by the river and in Adelaide. 
It will be remembered that the former Government had a national fund of which, I understand, approximately $80m remained when it lost office. The present Government has announced a national water policy but has not allocated any funds to it or given any indication of what funds will be available for it. A figure of $50m - the annual return for power generation from the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority - has been mentioned as a suitable sum by leading Labor Party spokesmen. An announcement or assurance by the Minister that funds will be available - if not this figure of $50m - for high priority anti-salinity measures will be received well by people who live beside the Murray River. 
The people to whom we are referring today in our discussion of this Bill have before them a major decision. I understand that the tender date has closed for the contract for the major construction section of the Dartmouth Dam. The Minister for the Environment and Conservation will be conferring soon with the 3 States involved with the Commonwealth Government in the River Murray Commission on which tender to accept for the completion of the major part of the dam. I hope that the Minister will announce shortly in the House that the Dartmouth Dam will proceed with full speed and will be completed. The Minister will be aware of doubts and uncertainties in some of the States and in areas along the Murray that the Government will not proceed with the completion of the Dartmouth Dam. If the Minister in his reply can give an assurance that a tender will be accepted and work will proceed as quickly as possible for the completion of the dam this will be good news for all people living along the Murray and particularly for the people of Adelaide, especially as one realises that the River Murray is the lifeline of South Australia, the water for Adelaide coming from the River Murray. 
The problem of water quality has been mentioned but there is also the problem of water quantity for Adelaide in the future. One should remember that if the Premier of South Australia,  Mr Dunstan,  had agreed earlier to the construction of the Dartmouth dam - he delayed agreement for 2 or 3 years - the dam would have almost been completed by now, and at a lower cost. This would have guaranteed the water supply of South Australia and, in addition, would have added considerably to the water quality of the river because of the flushing effect Dartmouth Dam will create through certain periods of the year right throughout the Murray system. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! I think I have now been as flexible with the honourable member for Murray as I was earlier with the honourable member for Darling, and for as long. I now ask the honourable member to relate his remarks more closely to the contents of the Bill. 
I accept your advice,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  In conclusion, I say that we support the Bill and I ask whether the Minister in his reply can give us 2 assurances, first on the funding of the anti-salinity works in the Murray, and secondly, on approval for work to proceed full speed ahead for the completion of Dartmouth Dam. 
It ill behoves the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  to try to distract attention from the problems which the Labor Government is facing in fulfilling its election promise to increase pension rates to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. When one considers the figures closely one finds that the Government is losing the battle. It ill behoves the honourable member to talk about other people being dishonest in their use of figures when on a number of occasions this morning his figures were shown to be incorrect and he had to admit it. A further examination will show that the basis of the speech of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  was incorrect. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)There is no point of order involved. 
The Australian Country Party supports the Bill and wishes it a speedy passage through the Parliament. My Party supports it because, with the Liberal Party, it believes that it provides the minimum amount necessary to provide any justice for pensioners in the present inflationary situation. However, in agreeing to do this we on the Opposition side were unaware that the Minister would devote half his speech to a desperate political attack on the Opposition. It is obvious why he devoted so much of his speech to this attack. Gone are the days when one could consider a second reading speech to be a description of the contents of the Bill and to be a help to honourable members on both sides of the House who would speak in the following debate. It was an attempt to distract attention from the detail of the speech and the detail of the figures provided. On close consideration one finds that those figures are a sham and, I believe, dishonest. If anybody refers to dishonesty it should be people on this side of the House in relation to the speech of the Minister last night. 
The Minister's speech highlights that, with the evil of runaway inflation, the increase of $3 is the minimum figure necessary. One can only use the word 'trotting' to describe the rate of inflation at present, because if one uses the word 'galloping' now one will not have an appropriate word to describe the rate of inflation that will be in existence later in the year. Inflation in this country will really take off in the latter part of the year. Pensioners comprise the section of the community that is the hardest hit by inflation. Proof of that is the Australian Labor Party's original promise that by granting twice yearly increases of $1.50 a week it would achieve its objective of increasing the pension to 25 per cent of the average weekly earnings. The Labor Government has already had to double that rate of  increase and it is still not gaining on its objective. A further problem for pensioners in the present inflationary situation is that there has been no comparable alteration to the supplementary benefits. The base rate pensioners who have no other income and who need and deserve assistance, whether it be in the form of supplementary rent assistance or the payment of so much for each dependent child, are the ones who are being hit the hardest. There has been no alteration to the supplementary benefits. Because of the present rate of inflation rents are being increased and it costs more to rear children. 
The rate of inflation from which the country is suffering is the responsibility of the Government. If the Government is to claim credit for the announcement of a $3 a week increase in the basic pension - and it is claiming credit - it must also accept the condemnation of pensioners and the community generally for allowing such an inflation rate to occur. Pensioners are suffering not only from the failure of their pensions to keep up with the rate of inflation but also from the loss in purchasing power of any savings they might have. As I said before, those on the base rate who are also dependent on supplementary benefits are being affected because the supplementary benefits have not been altered. If one wants to examine the rate of inflation in Australia one has only to look at the figures which were published recently by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development on its 24 member countries. The latest figures show that for the 10-year period between 1961 and 1971 Australia had the second lowest inflation rate of the 24 member countries of the OECD. In 1973 Australia moved from its position at second from the bottom of the table to eighth from the top, which was a tremendous turn around. I think that anybody who wishes to make a safe bet should bet on Australia being in an even higher position in the list this year. 
The Government has claimed that this $3 a week pension increase is one of the most generous in history. The Minister for Social Security said in his second reading speech that when the Liberal-Country Party Government lost office in December 1972 the pension was 20 per cent of the then average weekly earnings. Those figures are for the December quarter of 1972 which, of course, was 3 months after the previous pension increase. We have been told that the pension rate has now moved to 22.57 per cent, which is halfway to the magical figure of 25 per cent. But the Government is being dishonest in its comparisons. It is using the figure for the average weekly earnings in the December quarter and relating it to an increase of $3 a week which will not become operative until April. That it will not become operative until April is stated in the Minister's second reading speech. If the Government were to be honest it would have to use a percentage based on the average weekly earnings in April of this year or the figures for the March quarter of this year and not the figures for the December quarter of last year. 
In actual fact the standard rate of pension that is paid to pensioners in Australia at present is 19 per cent of the average weekly earnings. It has been estimated that by the time the increase is being paid in April the standard rate of pension will be not 22.57 per cent of the average weekly earnings but about 21.5 per cent and that by the time the next increase takes place in October, after what happens in the March quarter, the June quarter and the September quarter is taken into account as well as the fact that during that period there will be a national wage case decision and a metal trades award agreement which will further accelerate the inflation rate, the standard rate of pension would have dropped to 19 per cent of average weekly earnings. So much for Labor's brave claim that the pension will be increased to 25 per cent of the average weekly earnings by, as the honourable member for Robertson said, August of next year. 
The Minister for Social Security has claimed that the Government is gaining on the 25 per cent objective. He has used dishonest figures to justify his claim. That is not just my view. If one reads an article in the 'Canberra Times' of 9 March headed 'Pension ann weighed down by inflation' by Warwick Bracken, the newspaper's economics writer, one will see that even though he has been charitable in suggesting that there will be only a 3 per cent rate of inflation a quarter such an objective will not be achieved. The pension rate now is 19 per cent of average weekly earnings. It will be 21.5 per cent when the increase becomes effective and not the 22.5 per cent that the Government is suggesting. It will also be under 19 per cent by the time the next alteration takes place in October. What a sham! The Government's figures are not as good as those that were achieved by the previous Government; yet it is claiming to the people of Australia that it is gaining on this 25 per cent objective. 
When the honourable member for Melbourne finishes his prattle I will complete my speech. Another subject referred to by the Minister in his second reading speech was that of unemployment benefits. I think that the people of Australia are rather confused at the moment as to what is the position of the Government on the criteria for the payment of unemployment benefits. Two weeks ago we had statements by the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and the Minister for Social Security that they are going to take a tougher line on the payment of unemployment benefits. Yet in his speech last night the Minister for Social Security seemed to dissociate himself from a tougher line attitude. The confusion in this respect is similar to the confused situation which reigns in the field of immigration at the present time in that the Minister for Labour appears to be adopting a different line from the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby). 
The question that has to be answered at the present time is whether the Government intends to toughen the present procedure for the payment of unemployment benefits in this country. If it is, let us hear what the procedure is and get on with the job. If it is not it should stand up and say so. Will the Government continue to try to justify the present position to the people of Australia? In my electorate of Murray the payment of unemployment benefits has been the biggest issue for several months. It has now been joined by the superphosphate bounty issue. Right throughout all classes of people in the electorate, particularly the ordinary working people, it has been the biggest issue against the Government for some time. Those people are seeing at first hand the abuse of the present system of paying unemployment benefits. They are seeing physically fit young people turning down work that is offered to them because it is not suitably equivalent to what they claim to do. They are claiming that they are clerical people, but they are fit enough to do physical work. Others who have shown up for a job, as requested by the authorities, have not bothered to wash or dress properly. Those who are refused jobs, and justifiably so, by employers because of their appearance are obtaining unemployment benefits. If there has been a change of policy in this respect let us get it out to those in the areas where this is happening. 
There is also the problem of the double payment of unemployment benefits. There have been a couple of cases of this happening recently in my electorate. Those who have been found guilty of receiving double payments have been dealt with. I congratulate those who found them out. Not only do we have physically fit people who are not bothering to work at all because the work does not meet their requirements but also we have the question of the positive identification of the people who apply for unemployment benefits. What is required of a person who has applied for unemployment benefits to show that the name and address he uses are not phony ones? That has been happening far too often. I understand that positive identification is not required or requested. I know that this can be difficult, but why not require the presentation of a driver's licence, which would appear to be a fairly common basis of identification that is carried around. How much investigation is being conducted by the Department of possible unfair practices or unfair claims? I believe that there has to be far more investigation. There is also the overall philosophical problem of the incentive to work. What incentive is there for 16 to 18-year-old single people to work when they are being paid the adult rate? In some cases this rate amounts to more than they would get if they were doing an apprenticeship. What incentive is that to work? I believe that there should be a differential unemployment rate for juniors. 
I return to the question of the pension increases. The Labor Government is caught in a cross-fire between an election promise to raise pensions to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings and runaway inflation. An increase of $3 a week, which is offered now, will not improve the position of pensioners. But the Government has raised the expectations of pensioners by raising their pensions $3 per week on this occasion, and with inflation increasing, they will demand that this high rate of increase continue. The honourable member for Robertson promised that the pension target of 25 per cent of average weekly earnings will be achieved by August-September of next year. The Minister for Social Security said in effect: We have been in office for half the time in which we promised the target would be achieved and we are over half way towards the magical figure'. The only way this Government can really help the pensioner is to reduce inflation, because no matter what it does in the present inflationary situation the pensioner cannot gain. Pensions are down to 19 per cent of average weekly earnings now, they will be 214 per cent when the present increases become operative, and they will be down to under 19 per cent by the time the next rise comes. So $3 a week is the minimum necessary figure. 
The Country Party supports it, but the Government is only toying with the problem while the present rate of inflation continues. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How much money has been allocated to how many institutions under the Aged Persons Homes Act in each year from and including 1969. 
When the rather garish events of this week reached their inevitable conclusion this afternoon, somebody in the Australian Labor Party pressed a panic button; and this is the first of the panic measures, the first of the pieces of legislation which will be desperately trotted out again to try somehow or other, to justify to the Australian public the return of the Labor Government. Of all the pieces of legislation to be trotted out again this is the most symbolic because nowhere else in all the Government's legislation does the Government show the cynicism it has towards the health of the 13 million people in Australia. At no time has this Government tried, in any constructive and practical way that had any chance of success, to update the many aspects of health cover and nursing home cover, which was mentioned by the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer),  to keep pace with inflation, or to overcome some of the weaknesses which we all acknowledge to be in the existing scheme - if the Labor Government cannot see them, we on this side of the House can easily show them to it - so that the problems of inflation that this Government has caused will not bring undue suffering to the people who need health care. 
We have just had this discredited piece of legislation trotted out once again at the last minute. At no time during the period of office of this Government has the health of the people of Australia been put above the political opportunism of this Government in matters of health. Let us look at the whole sorry succession of events that led up to this legislation. We had the Deeble report which was never debated. If anybody tried to tackie the Government it said: 'Well, it is not necessarily what we mean. We had a White Paper which was never debated. Again, if anybody tried to tackle the Government on what it meant we were told: 'That is not necessarily what will be in the legislation'. Then finally we have this piece of legislation - one of the largest pieces of legislation we have had before this Parliament and, if we are to take this Government and this legislation seriously, one of the most important pieces of legislation - and we are given approximately one hour to debate it. How can we treat it seriously when that attitude is taken? 
Instead of getting on with the job of keeping the health of the people of Australia within their reach by updating the various factors involved in it as this Government should have been doing - for example, updating the subsidised health benefits plan limitations to keep up with inflation, keeping the Government's contribution to medical benefits schemes and hospital benefits schemes at a satisfactary level also to keep up with inflation, and increasing the bed allowance so that the States are not overburdened financially and so that the scheme can continue to run - this Government says that it has some grandiose scheme which somehow or other will solve all the problems of the people of Australia. But it is a scheme which has been defeated, and the Government knows it has been defeated. In reintroducing this legislation the Government knew that it had no hope of achieving success with it. The Government reintroduced it only as a desperate political gambit for the forthcoming election campaign. Instead of going on with this mockery this witless Government 
I wish to use the dairy industry as an example of how the ignorance of the Labor Government on matters of rural policy can cause considerable harm to a rural industry and also cause considerable confusion and distress. The Government is ignorant not only of rural policy as such but also of the ramifications of its policy. The Government is ending the dairy industry bounty. The bounty has played a major part in a stable dairy industry not only by its injection of income into the industry but also - this is where the Labor Government's ignorance shows - 'because the bounty was the foundation stone of equalisation. Equalisation returns are of vital importance to thousands of dairy farmers, even if they do not appear to be of any importance to the Labor members of Parliament: Equalisation is the mechanisation that averages returns between the various end products of the dairying industry.  Mr Speaker,  I find it difficult to speak above the babble that is going on in the chamber at present. 
The House is debating today a very serious matter, a matter which is central to the forthcoming election - that is, that the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  and the Government have misled the House and the people of Australia over the Government's health proposals which are supposedly to be one of the major features of the Government's election program. While the Government was supposedly standing firm on its previous but discredited national health scheme it was secretly negotiating with private hospitals and health funds for a significantly different scheme. Those negotiations culminated in a meeting in Melbourne on 27 March which was attended by 12 people, and not by the 3 people as the Minister has suggested from time to time. 
This raises several very serious questions. What are we expected to believe in Parliament - what the Minister tells us one day or what he is forced to admit to the following day? What is the Australian public supposed to believe - what is being trotted up again as the Government's national health scheme, its perfect answer to the health problems of this country, while at the same time the Government is attempting to amend it significantly? What has happened to ministerial responsibility? What will happen to future relations with all sections of the health care industry in Australia when the relations between the Government and the industry are being poisoned and increasingly confused by secret negotiations, rebuttals, promises or assurances supposedly made on behalf of the Minister? 
We have a scapegoat Minister, a man who obviously instructed one of his officials to arrange a meeting with the National Standing Committee on Private Hospitals. Those people would not have attended the meeting, because of their previous experience with the Minister, unless they were completely assured that the meeting and any instructions given or discussions taking place at that meeting were being carried out on behalf of the Minister involved. The honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  has already quoted from one of the documents that was circulated to these people. I will refer to it again. It said that the Minister is prepared to amend the present program. Surely no Government official would have put that in writing unless it was the Minister's assurance and unless he was working completely on an understanding with the Minister. The people at the meeting were told that the Minister would see them the following day if any agreement could be reached. Nobody promises that a Minister of this Government or any government will meet another group of people without the Minister's categorical assurance that this will take place. 
To add further to the official nature of the person acting for the Minister, one of the motions passed by the people at the meeting in Melbourne of the Standing Committee on Private Hospitals said in effect: 'We do not see any purpose in the Minister's coming'. In other words, once again there was the implied assurance that anything being said that day was said with the complete approval of the Minister. After the secret negotiations, which were taking place the day after the socalled be all and end all of the health problems of this country had been re-printed for presentation to Parliament on 19 March, a letter dated 20 March was sent, setting up this meeting. So we had the subterfuge by the Minister misleading Parliament and misleading the people of Australia on this very important issue, showing the cynical attitude of this Government to the health of the 13 million people of Australian ever since it came to office. The Government has not attempted to deal constructively with the health care problems facing this nation but it is trying to force the people of Australia into a corner so that private hospitals, freedom of choice and the things that we have come to expect as being essential to a democratic society will end in domination by Canberra. 
As soon as these secret negotiations became public the Minister denied them. This scapegoat Minister will not stand up to ministerial responsibility. He obviously instructed an official to negotiate on his behalf. The moment this was found out he denied that it was on his instruction. What can the people of this country expect of a Government when one of its senior ministers - the man who is considered by some to be the next leader of the Australian Labor Party - when faced with a tight situation resorts to desperate measures? How can the people of Australia trust or vote for such a Government when such a senior minister adopts this attitude to Parliament and to the people generally? He added to these desperation measures in the debate today. He quoted to his advantage from a private letter. When it was suggested that the letter be tabled he refused to do so because it was a confidential document. Then in his turn he quoted extensively from a confidential document belonging to the Liberal Party and he wanted to table it. He was not prepared to accept that what is confidential for one is confidential for the other. He wants to have it both ways. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting, we were debating the actions of the Minister for Social Security in attempting to cover up secret negotiations aimed at amending the Government's proposed health scheme. This is a most serious charge and one- which, on our side, I believe is substantiated. The Minister has misled the House and the people of Australia. He has denied the rule of ministerial responsibility. These are all serious matters and matters that must be considered as we approach an election. We have a situation where, at the same time as the Minister was presenting a supposedly genuine reintroduction of the discredited Health Insurance Bill which was defeated last year - we were told that the Bill was reprinted on 19 March - on 20 March, at the Minister's urging, a letter was sent from an official of the Department of Social Security to the National Standing Committee on Private Hospitals asking for a meeting for the purpose of making considerable alterations to this scheme. So, we have this confusion and this cynicism where on the one hand the Government is saying: 'Here is the scheme that will solve our health problems', while at the same time secretly trying to amend that scheme because it realises that it is not acceptable. 
What is the Australian public to believe? This is one of the important election issues. What does the Government intend to produce as its health program - the scheme that has been rejected once and which will be rejected again or a scheme containing the considerable amendments which the Minister's advisers have been trotting around to various people connected with the field of health care? When it became public that these officials of the Department were doing this at the urging of the Minister, the Minister denied responsibility for the discussions that took place. What an example of political cynicism we have seen from a senior Minister of this Government. What a deliberate hoodwinking of the Australian public as to what this Government really intends to do with its health care proposals. It is perfectly obvious why the Government is deliberately trying to alter its unacceptable health scheme. It is simply because the scheme is unacceptable to the broad categories of the Australian public - to the different groups of people that make up the Australian public, not just a narrow group of conservative general practitioners or some other section of the health care industry. 
The Government repeatedly says that these are the people who are trying to prevent change but it also says in the same breath on other arguments: 'You may not like the people involved in union discussions but you have to deal with them because they are part of the industry'. Yet the Government forgets that principle when it comes to health care. These people are part of the industry. They know what goes on. The Government also forgets that the people who rejected the Government's proposed amendments to the. system of health care in this country are the people who run the religious and charitable hospitals in Australia and nobody should be able to accuse them of having anything but the highest motives for the health care of this country. These are the people more than anybody else who have rejected this scheme and the proposed amendments. 
We have an election at hand and we have in front of us a serious example of a senior Minister misleading the Parliament and the Australian public and resorting to desperate tactics when cornered. The next question that must be asked is: How many other Ministers at present are presenting one face to the Australian public while they are engaged in secret negotiations and private double dealing behind the scenes? This is what the people of Australia must face up to on election day, 18 May. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
What quantity of (a) cheddar and (b) noncheddar cheese was imported in each quarter since January 1973. 
What was the (a) quantity imported and (b) average Australian landed price per pound of each of the 9 major non-cheddar varieties in each of those periods. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What are the figures for the various categories of farm build-up and debt adjustment under the Rural Reconstruction Scheme, up to 1 March 1974, in respect of (a) the number of successful and unsuccessful applicants for these categories and (b) the average amount paid or loaned to the successful applicants in each State and for each sector of primary industry. 
What sum has been advanced to the Slates in each of the 6 month periods since the inception of the Scheme. 
What rates of interest are currently being charged for loans provided under the Scheme. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
How many (a) successful and (b) unsuccessful applicants have there been in each State for the 2 categories of the Fruit-growing Reconstruction Scheme up to 1 March 1974. 
How many acres of each variety of fruit have been cleared by the Scheme in each State, and what is the average price paid per acre for each variety in each State. 
 The Opposition is completely justified in continuing its opposition to this particular proposal because of the principles involved and, more importantly, because of the developments that have taken place since this debate started about 12 months ago. Uncertainties and contradictions have developed in relation to the scheme as Ministers have tried to explain it and have kept changing their mind. The Government has attempted to deliberately deceive the Australian public. Why has it entered into these deceptions and contradictions? It has done so for one of 2 reasons - either to hide the real intention of socialising Australia's health care system or possibly - equally correctly - because it is an unworkable scheme and it has to be continually modified. 
It is immaterial which one of those 2 reasons one accepts because I think they are both partially true. The result will be the same. Australia's health care system will be thrown into confusion and the health of Australians will be jeopardised if the Government continues its headlong rush towards implementation of the health scheme. Some Labor Party members earlier spoke of a mandate for this particular scheme. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  effectively blew that claim when he said nobody could talk about a mandate because the majority of Australians really did not understand the scheme. In spite of several years of active promotion of this scheme by its supporters and by members of the Labor Party, there is no mandate for it anywhere in Australia. 
The majority of Australians are opposed to this scheme. Gallup poll figures show that 56 per cent of Australians are opposed to it. The vast majority of those who are in the health care system in Australia are opposed to the scheme and are more firmly opposed to it now than ever before. They are opposed more firmly for very good reasons - because of the Government's deceptions and because of the uncertainties and contradictions. Honourable members on this side of the House accept that the present scheme is not perfect. But it is by and large acceptable to the great majority of Australians. What is more, it is a sound base for the improvements which the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  has detailed from time to time and which can and should be made. These improvements can be made not on a socialist base but on an acceptable base, fitting in with the philosophy of a free society and a mixed economy. Any changes that take place to the health scheme should be evolutionary and not revolutionary because there are no grounds for revolutionary change to our health care system. The Australian people have never had accurately explained to them what the Government is attempting to foist on them. 
I agree that the Government itself does not know. That is why it keeps changing the scheme. The people should know, as a first principle, what the Government is attempting to foist on them. For example, no accurate costing of the scheme has been made. In these days of inflation that is of great importance. The White Paper set out certain figures. If one added up certain other figures that the White Paper left out, one would reach a certain sum. The State Health Ministers disagree with that figure. Phillip Shrapnel, an independent organisation, states that the Government's figures were under-estimated by about $400m. No honourable member on the other side of the House has been able to refute that claim. In fact, I do not think honourable members opposite have tried too hard because they know they cannot do so. What is more, those figures were collated 12 months ago. 
 As the honourable member for Barker has said, look at the escalation in health costs. We have had the Health Insurance Levy Bill before us with provision that the levy shall be 1.35 per cent up to a maximum of $150 for the first year. I bet it is one year only before the sky is the limit. When this Bill is debated in the Senate I believe the Senate should refuse to actually engage in debate on it until the Government puts forward accurate estimates of the cost its scheme will entail and until it indicates how much income will be derived from the levy so that the people of Australia can see how much it will cost them as a society. When that is done, the people and this Parliament will have to take into account the other expensive proposals of this Government - education, preschool education, hospital construction, the new compensation scheme- 
 This Government could never be accused of doing anything for the rural area so there is no need to include that in the list for consideration. There is the superannuation scheme, the base rate pension of 25 per cent of average weekly earnings and the continued abolition of the means test. All of these are expensive proposals irrespective of their merits or demerits. All of these expensive proposals come at a time when the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has informed the people of Australia that there will be no tax increases and he is calling for fiscal restraint. Yet all these proposals, together with the one before us, mesh in with those restraining parameters. 
If people like to say that the scheme that the Government is proposing will cost less, one has only to look at the United Kingdom where a recent Press headline stated that $800m will have to be put into the United Kingdom national health scheme immediately to avoid its collapse. One also can look at the Australian Capital Territory to see the beginning of the real aim of this Government to socialise medicine in this country. At present there is a crisis situation in the United Kingdom where people are being forced into completely private hospitals from the mixed public and private hospitals that have been known in the United Kingdom and have been known here. It is polarising the community in the United Kingdom and it will polarise the community here. It is polarising the community in New Zealand. One can look at the increased amount of private hospital construction in New Zealand and the United Kingdom to see what is happening. When that does occur in Australia it will mean that a disproportionate share of those who are required to provide the health system - the nurses, the doctors and the other technical experts - will move into that system out of the public system to the detriment of the middle and lower income groups of Australia. 
Honourable members opposite are very good at criticising the doctors just as they sometimes say of Opposition members that we neglect to consider unions and members of unions and do not treat them as real people when discussing industrial situations. Honourable members opposite say that that is an ignorant position because the industrial matters have to be considered with the union members and that without their co-operation the system will not work. The Government is neglecting that principle when it is discussing its health scheme. It does not matter what Government supporters say or think of those responsible for the delivery of the system, without their co-operation the health scheme will not work. Do not say that it cannot happen in Australia because it is beginning to happen in the Australian Capital Territory at the present time. 
One of the interesting contradictions of many contradictions now apparent in this proposal is to be found in the Australian Capital Territory and that is the question of patient moiety in medical costs. The Minister said that in the Government scheme there will be a Government cover of 85 per cent with a gap of 15 per cent which must be met by contributors in respect of attending general practitioner consultations. The Government is increasingly establishing more health centres in the A.C.T. But it is not establishing those new health centres in areas of need. It is not imposing means test requirements and it is not charging patients any fee. What is the Government's policy? Is it what the Government is doing in the A.C.T. or what it proposes to do by this legislation which is now before the Committee. 
What about optometrists? The legislation before the Committee is in one form. Yet on 6 May the Minister for Social Security announced completely different medical rebate facilities for optometrists. What is the Government's position there? Which proposal do we apply - what is before us in this legislation or what the Minister said on 6 May. What about the number of additional Bills that are required? In the Minister's second reading speech last year he mentioned motor vehicle third party and workers compensation. Has the new compensation proposal overridden the earlier proposal? What about the legislation on individuals' privacy? What about private hospitals? In his second speech yesterday, the Minister stated that private hospitals would continue to maintain their autonomy of operation in relation to such matters as admission, treatment policy and the number of patients admitted. Yet in clause 34 of this Bill the Minister states that once a private hospital agrees to admit public ward or standard ward patients the Minister himself will say how many are to be allowed- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti) 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. I call the honourable member for Perth. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I call the honourable member for Murray. 
I thank the Committee. The Bill provides in clause 34 that once a private hospital agrees to admit standard ward patients the Minister will decide how many of those patients will be admitted and what will be paid to that hospital. This makes a complete mockery of what the Minister had to say in his second reading speech yesterday. Which of these 2 versions states the correct position? 
What about State-Federal relations and cooperation in this area? I understand that legislation is to be introduced concerning private health funds. What will be the position in Victoria where already extensive legislation covers private health funds? What will be the position of hospitals and health centres in relation to which on the one hand the Minister said that he will co-operate with the States but on the other the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said in his policy speech that his Government would press on with the establishment of community health centres where possible in co-operation with State and local governments? By no means did the Prime Minister restrict his Government to cooperation with the other levels of government or to the communities concerned. 
I believe it is time that this Government became honest with the Australian people. If it can, it should tell the Australian people what it really intends to do through its scheme. I doubt that it will be able to do that because of the continuing alterations to that scheme. As a first principle, it should say how much the scheme will cost the Australian people and what it will mean for their health welfare. I believe that until the Government does this all Australians should continue to oppose this scheme as they are not being treated honestly or fairly by this Government. The health care future of all Australians is being placed in jeopardy by this Government. 
Before this debate is concluded, will the Minister for Social Security at least indicate for the first time what other legislative measures will be introduced which will be complementary to these 2 Bills concerning health which are being debated today, so that the Australian people and this Parliament may know for the first time what other legislation is proposed. If this is known, we can decide our attitude on those aspects. Until the Minister does that, one can say only that those on this side of the Committee will oppose at every turn possible the passage of this and other legislation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti) 
Order! The time allotted for the Committee stage of the Bill has expired. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I second the motion. I think the attitude of the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  who has been interjecting during this debate, indicates that he shows no real concern for the people presently in nursing homes. The reason why Standing Orders should be suspended to allow this matter to be debated is to expose to the Australian public the deliberate policy of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  since this Government came to office. That policy has been to squeeze and to bankrupt private and religious nursing homes and also private and religious aged persons homes in this country. This has been a deliberate policy of this Government since January 1973. 
The Government has created chaos in the nursing home industry. One can witness this by the almost daily Press reports of the concern it is causing old people who are not sure whether they will continue to have a bed. The Government has now realised that it cannot continue with its policy of completely changing the order of our society in this way. The Government is now trying to cover up its backtracking on this matter by throwing up the red herring that if it were not for the double dissolution these increases would have been made earlier. What a sham this is, because the Government has made no attempt to increase nursing home benefits in the 18 months that it has been in power. The last increase in nursing home benefits was made by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government in 1972 and commenced on 1 January 1973. At that time a pensioner in one of these nursing homes, after paying all that was required in order to be in that nursing home, still had $3 a week spending money. That was the gap between what he had to pay and the benefits he received. What is the situation now 18 months later, forgetting about the short time required for the double dissolution? In that 18 months the present Government has attempted nothing and at the present time the pensioner is- over $30 a week behind in the level of payments due to him from the Government. This creates problems for relatives and others who show concern for these pensioners. It is of no use for the Government to say that it is not aware of the increased costs in our society. The Government claims great credit for what it has done for pensioners even though the percentage of average weekly earnings that a pensioner receives is lower now than it was in December 1972 when the Opposition parties left office. At that time it was 20 percent of average weekly earnings. So much for the Government's great call for a benefits level of 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
Another reason why Standing Orders should be suspended is that this will enable us to expose to the Australian public that what is now being offered is not only too late but also too little. In private nursing homes in Victoria the present weekly charge is $136.50. It is of no use for the Minister or the Government to say that that is an exorbitant charge because that charge was basically set by the Minister's own Department. It has to be. The new allowance that the Minister has so proudly announced will still leave a payments gap in private nursing homes in Victoria of $13.60 a week. In other words, a pensioner will still be behind. The relatives of the pensioners will still be concerned about whether or not they will be able to continue to pay. 
That is right- after taking all the pension and not allowing for the inevitable increases that will take place in nursing home charges in the near future because of the inflation which is being led by this Government's own policies. If the Minister is genuine in saying that he wants to do something to put pensioners ahead of charges in nursing homes, not only should this increase be backdated, as the honourable member for Hotham has mentioned and challenged the Government to do, but also it should be not an increase of $29 a week but an increase of $45 a week. That is the minimum that is required to put pensioners ahead, particularly in private nursing homes in Victoria. That sum would allow a pensioner only $2.40 a week spending money, which is virtually nothing nowadays and which allows nothing at all for the increased costs which inevitably will occur before the Government, if one can judge by the past when it took 18 months to do anything, gets round to granting another increase. The third reason for calling for the suspension of Standing Orders is to put the record straight with regard to the Opposition's policy about which the Minister has tried to mislead the Australian public. The honourable member for Hotham has shown quite clearly our positive policy. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
When Marrickville Margarine Pty Ltd was granted a licence to produce margarine in the Australian Capital Territory, were applications called for the licence from other manufacturers. 
If so, which manufacturers applied, and why was the decision made in favour of Marrickville Margarine Pty Ltd. 
If not, why was this company granted the licence without other application being considered. 

 Mr BRYANT - The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is no legislation in the Australian Capital Territory requiring producers of margarine to hold a licence. 
and (3) See answer to (1). 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that most of the employees at the Marrickville Margarine factory in the A.C.T. do not reside in the A.C.T. and are In fact outsiders brought in specially to work the plant, 
If so, is this contrary to the argument put forward by the Minister at the time of the licence being granted that it would add to employment opportunities in the A.C.T. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Did the Marrickville Margarine factory in the A.C.T. open for production again on Saturday, 30 March 1974. 
If so, was some of this production loaded on to trucks with Victorian and South Australian registrations. 
If the position is as stated, is some of the production being exported to these or other States; if so, is this in contravention of (a) the Agricultural Council decision that production was for the A.C.T. only and (b) the quota arrangements. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What percentage of (a) married women and (b) married women with children under the age of 5 are in the Australian workforce. 
How many children under the age of 5 are there in Australia. 
The Opposition raises this matter of public importance to draw to the attention of the Australian public and members of Parliament the crisis situation that has been caused by the attitude of the Government. The Government has shown its lack of depth of feeling and of compassion for the aged - particularly the infirm aged - in our community. It is all very well for the Government to say what it has done for pensioners and for the aged people. It has concentrated on headline procedures, talking about straight pension increases, but this has been only a thin veneer. When one looks at the other aspects of policy that are required for a complete cover for the aged one can see no continuation of this concern, particularly when one remembers that 80 per cent of all people in nursing homes in Australia are pensioners. When the Labor Government took office in December 1972 these 2 key areas of aged assistance - that is, aged persons homes and nursing homes - were left in very good order by the outgoing Liberal-Country Party Government. 
The subsidies for aged persons housing had been increased in January 1972. 
I gather that if the honourable member for Hunter is not prepared to listen to untruths he will not be prepared to listen to members on his own side when it is their turn to speak. When this Government took office in December 1972 these 2 key areas of aged assistance were left in very good order by the outgoing Liberal-Country Party Government. There had been increases in subsidies for aged persons homes in January 1972, less than 12 months before. Legislation passed by the outgoing Government in the Budget session would have created considerable increases in nursing home benefits in January 1973. I want to remind people that at that time, in the calendar year 1972 to which we are referring, the inflation rate in Australia was just over 4 per cent. It is most important to remember in this debate the inflation rate at that time and the inflation rate now because the difference is one of the causes of the. present crisis situation. It is this deliberate government action that has created the crisis with aged persons homes and nursing homes. In one year, in the calendar year 1973, this Government managed to increase the rate of inflation in this country from 4 per cent to over 13 per cent - a tremendous achievement by a government in one year - with disastrous results for those 2 areas. 
Building costs skyrocketed, salaries skyrocketed, and the savings of pensioners to help them in these areas were considerably reduced by the ravages of inflation. During the heady early days - the first 12 months - of this Government it refused to recognise the havoc that it was creating. The Government had headlined its policy of 6-monthly increases in pensions to compensate for inflation, so it was obviously aware of what it was doing. But for 18 months, in spite of all the salary increases in nursing homes, there was no increase in nursing home benefits. For aged persons homes it was almost  2i  years before there was any increase. This was at a time of record inflation and at a time when it was recognised that 6-monthly increases in pensions were absolutely essential for pensioners to stay up with inflationary increases. 
Why did the Government refuse to move ahead and keep these 2 areas updated because of inflation? I believe it was because of the obstinate, doctrinaire policy of a group of front bench socialists on the other side of this Parliament who sit in Government, who are ideologically opposed to religious, private and community involvement in aged persons housing and in nursing homes. It was their clear attitude to squeeze out such involvement from those areas; to assume Government control - not just financial control, because in these areas the Government has had financial control for some years, but actual physical control and ownership, because of their belief that there is no place for religious, charitable or private groups in this field. What has been the result of this policy? There has been a belated recognition on the part of the Government, after the honeymoon period of the first 12 months was over, that it was impossible to achieve its aim of a Government takeover in these areas; and I hope there will be a recognition that the Government's pacesetter policies in wage and salary adjustments have created or helped to create this crisis in building costs and the salaries of those employed in these places. It is only in the last few months that the Government has recognised that it cannot continue its previous attitude. 
I agree that only some of them have. Their attitude is probably still the same, but reality has caught up with them. The Minister for Social Security has claimed that but for the double dissolution nursing home benefits would have been increased earlier. I believe that the double dissolution forced the Government to look at its own areas of weakness earlier than otherwise would have been the case, because it was not until the Minister's policy speech on 1 May that any announcement was made on nursing home benefits. There was not one word from him until the double dissolution was actually under way. 
If one looks at the time when the aged persons homes subsidy increases were granted one will see that it was not until late March that action was taken and by that time it was fairly inevitable that a double dissolution would occur. It is of no use for Government members to talk about the double dissolution retarding the generosity of the Government, because the double dissolution forced it into taking some action to give up, at least for the time being, this ideological approach which was causing this crisis in the field of aged persons homes and nursing homes. Even now the limited increases which have been offered are too little and too late. One only has to read the newspaper comments on the crisis which is facing aged persons housing and nursing home organisations to realise that. 
Let me deal in detail with the problems, firstly, in respect of aged persons homes. As I said, the subsidy and subsidy limits were lifted in January 1972. A committee of inquiry was established in 1973. That committee presented an interim report in November 1973. The Minister had the report by at least late 1973 and, for all we know, he may have had it earlier. But when did the Minister adopt the recommendations in that committee's interim report. It was not in November 1973; not in December 1973; not in January 1974; and not in February 1974. It was in late March 1974, with the increased benefits to come into operation on 1 April, which is probably an appropriate day in view of the attitude which has been adopted by the Minister. So it was 4 months after he received this report before any action was taken, and then only belatedly. 
The figures on building costs used in that report would have had to be based on 1972 figures, because if the committee looked into the matter in 1973 they would have been the latest figures available to it. So, on 1 April 1974 an increase - the first since January 1972 - was granted on the basis of building costs in 1972. The annual escalation in building costs in that period was approximately 15 per cent. 
 I am informed that it is now 40 per cent. I am not criticising that committee of inquiry, because the inflation that this Government set in train has overtaken anything which that committee recommended. When the Minister announced these increased benefits in March the increase was a theoretical one. The subsidy limits are not a realistic recognition of present day building costs. Instead of organisations really receiving an increase in subsidy on a $2 to $1 basis, which is to be expanded to $4 for $1, the. actual increase is approaching only $1 for $1. This means that there is no increase. Actually, there has been a withdrawal from the previous position. I quote what the Brotherhood of St Laurence has had to say. Its statement was reported as follows: 
Welfare services catering for the aged could be put out of business because of Federal Government financial restrictions, the director of aged services at Melbourne's Brotherhood of St Laurence,  Mr N.  Brooke, said yesterday. 'If the Government intends to put us out of business altogether, it should say so', he said. 
The Federal Minister for Social Security,  Mr Hayden,  recently announced the Government's intention to double building subsidies under the Aged Persons Homes Act, bringing the new subsidy to $4 for every SI spent on buildings for the aged. 
But  Mr Brooke  said since subsidies were restricted to units costing a maximum of $9000, the increased ratio was illusory. 

 Mr Brooke said it was clear the minister did not intend to raise the maximum cost level. Since $13,000 a unit was the average current price for individual self-contained units, voluntary agencies would have to find the extra $4000 per unit. 'So the present grant is not 2:1. We are asking  Mr Hayden  to advise how building costs could be reduced any further. Any building plans he could produce that would not exceed $9000 would be welcomed', he said. 
The Government has promised to increase the subsidy to $4 for $1, but unless there is an increase in the subsidy limit - 'all the information is that there is no intention to increase the limit and I invite the Minister to correct me on this if I am wrong - there will be no actual increase because it will be offset by the rise in building costs. The honest and realistic thing for this Government to do is not to wait for the final report of this committee of inquiry - because that is beside the point in the present situation - but to lift the subsidy limit. 
 I am referring to the hopeless situation in which the Government has placed aged persons homes societies because of the limit which it has imposed. The effective subsidy is now about $1 for $1, and even if the Government increases it to $4 for $1 without at the same time increasing the subsidy limit it is not helping anybody. The realistic thing to do is to remove the subsidy limit, particularly at the present time, because of the inability of anybody to obtain a fixed contract in terms of building costs. 
I move on to nursing homes. About 80 per rent of the 40 odd thousand people in nursing homes in Australia are pensioners. When we left office in 1972, under our legislation which was to come into effect in January 1973, pensioners would have been left with approximately one quarter of their pension for their own spending money. Since then wages and salaries for nursing home staff have increased. I will give the House some figures for the period January 1973 to June 1974 which have been supplied by the Research Service of the Parliamentary Library. Registered nurses in New South Wales have received a 48 per cent increase and in Victoria there has been a 44 per cent increase. Nursing aides in New South Wales have received a 77 per cent increase and in Victoria there has been a 36 per cent increase. Increases granted to all staff in nursing homes is a weighted average of 60 per cent in New South Wales and 53 per cent in Victoria. Yet there is to be no increase in nursing home benefits until 1 August. The benefits now being offered to nursing homes are inadequate because, as the Minister himself has stated, they will cover only 70 per cent of the people in these homes. As I have already told the House, 80 per cent of the. people in nursing homes are pensioners. In several States massive increases are in store. My colleague, the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson),  will enlarge on this. If a pensioner is left with $4 a week, as the Minister has promised, that money will be swallowed up very rapidly. On present prices, in order to be equal to what pensioners had when we left office the amount would now have to be $8 a week. 
I have with me a letter from the people who operate the Baptist Homes of Victoria and they certainly are not commercial people. Even allowing for the new increases in benefits which are to operate from 1 August, their 4 homes in Melbourne will have a deficit for the 6 months to the end of 1974 amounting to $47,000, and allowing for increases due to come in early next year the deficit will be $140,000. 
Once again the Government has adopted a policy of giving too little too late. As the honourable member for Hotham has said, like so many other homes, they may have to close down. The Government must be honest and realistic and face up to the inflationary situation which it has created. It must spread its assistance to cover all these areas of need and not just the headline cases. It must do this so that the aged people who are in aged persons homes or nursing homes are compensated for the inflation that this Government has created. These people should be allowed to live out their lives in the dignity which they deserve and in which when we left office in December 1972 they had every prospect of living out their lives. 
The pension increases which we are now debating are the only positive measures to come from the panic mini-Budget on Tuesday night. The proposals of Tuesday night served no useful purpose other than to provide a vehicle to allow these increases to be introduced earlier than usual. The measures announced on Tuesday night certainly were not antiinflationary. If honourable members do not believe the newspaper correspondents, the economists and those on this side of the House they only have to remember what the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  said on this subject yesterday. He said that the package certainly was not anti-inflationary. Whether he was saying that because he was 'being honest or because he wanted to have a voice additional to and different from that of the Prime 
Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  remains a point of conjecture. 
I congratulate the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  on taking the opportunity to introduce these pension increases just about a month ahead of schedule. The introduction of the pension increases now and the statements by the Treasurer on the postponement of the abolition of the means test for those between 70 and 75 years of age until April next year highlight at least 3 problems with which the Government has to grapple in this area. The first one is the very difficult, if not impossible, budgetary task of abolishing the means test, keeping pensions at 25 per cent of average weekly male earnings and also increasing supplementary benefits, dependent children allowances, etc., to compensate for inflation. I think that the announcements made on Tuesday night in the Treasurer's speech indicate that it is impossible to provide all of these things at the same time. 
A further question is raised. I hope that the Minister for Social Security can answer this when he is summing up. The abolition of the means test for those between 70 and 75 years of age has been put off from this year until 1 April next year because of budgetary problems and the inflationary situation. What will happen if inflation is worse in March and April of next year than it is now? All indicators show that it will be worse. Will the abolition of the means test for those between the ages of 70 and 75 years be further postponed? If it is not postponed but takes effect on 1 April, and if we still have the present inflationary situation, will the original Government promise - it was certainly a similar promise to that made by this side of the House - to abolish the means test for those between 65 and 70 years of age be honoured in the next Budget or 12 months later? I am not asking these questions in a political point scoring exercise. I believe that people in these age groups are concerned that they should be able to plan for their own future and have some firm idea about when the means test will be abolished. Many of those in the 70 to 75 age group were planning on the abolition of the means test being announced in the Budget next month or, as it will be now, in September. They will have to replan for the future. I believe that the Minister should, if he can, make a positive statement on this matter. 
This measure highlights another problem. Because of the excessive inflation that we have at the present time and with every possibility that it is increasing, when will the next pension increase take place? The present increase was to have taken place next month. The Treasurer now tells us that the next increase will take place in March next year. What happens if the inflation rate for the next 2 quarters, instead of being 4.6 per cent or whatever it was for the last quarter, is running at 5 per cent or even more and Parliament does not resume until some time in late February or in March? Will this Government, in an endeavour to keep base rate pensions as a respectable percentage of average weekly earnings, introduce into this Parliament further pension increases before the Parliament ends its sitting some time in December? I believe it is a distinct possibility that the Government will have to do this if it is to keep its great promise to bring pensions up to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. As the honourable member for Hotham has already said, with inflation increasing at the rate it is, by March of next year, far from being 25 per cent, it will be down around 18 per cent and the lowest it has been for some years. 
This measure also raises the problem of supplementary benefits. With the progressive removal of the means test on age pensions the secondary means test or the means test on supplementary benefits and other fringe benefits will become more important and in fact will become the means test. This is where the greatest area of poverty is at the present time. Professor Henderson, in the interim report on poverty, makes this quite clear. Pensioners who are paying rent or who have dependent children have had no movement in their supplementary benefits for some time. If honourable members opposite do not want to believe what the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  said or what Professor Henderson said, let me quote somebody on their own side, the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson).  Speaking on the last occasion when social service increases were debated in this House - namely 21 March 1974- he said: 
First is the possibility that 26.2 per cent - let alone 25 per cent - is insufficient for supplementary allowance pensioners. That is more than a possibility; that one is almost certain. Secondly, that we should be seeking to advance the supplementary pension more quickly than what is generally referred to as the base rate pension. Thirdly, that the very strict and' limited test for the supplementary allowance should be some what relaxed as it has remained on its present basis for a very long period during which money values have declined very markedly, and on its present basis it is starting to lose its reality. 
Those are the remarks of a respected member on the Government side of the House in the course of the last debate on this subject. What are members of the Government going to do to help those in the greatest need in the pensioner area? 
The rent allowance should be increased. The means test by which a person may earn a certain amount and still retain the full pension should be increased in line with inflation and also as an encouragement. Dependent children's allowances should be likewise increased. I agree with the honourable member for Sc'ullin  (Dr Jenkins)  who talked about the hollow promise of the Victorian Government with regard to rate assistance. Talk of hollow promises seems rather incongruous coming from honourable members on that side of the House at the moment as we see more and more of their election promises being broken. But I certainly agree with the honourable member with regard to rate assistance and the actions of the Victorian Government. I believe it is essentially a Commonwealth responsibility and one that all of us in this House should accept because on many occasions there is greater poverty among those people paying rates than among those paying rents. 
Other honourable members on this side of the House have mentioned the problem of single fathers. I ask the Minister for Social Security what he intends to do about handicapped children. In an election speech he made considerable reference to the handicapped but said nothing about the greatest area of need which is those handicapped children who are too young - that is, under 16 years of age - to receive the invalid pension and are unable to be accommodated in a home. If they are accommodated the Commonwealth pays assistance. If they are not accommodated the parent has to meet the additional expense of keeping them and the problems associated with those children and receives nothing at all from the Commonwealth. I believe that this is an area of real need which this Parliament should take up. I would like the Minister for Social Security to say whether his Government has considered the possibility of introducing a special benefit for handicapped children, reducing the age qualification for receipt of the invalid pension or introducing some other means by which these people can be accommodated. 
I have one last question of the Minister. The House was debating this matter earlier today. In February the Acting Minister for Social Security, in response to a letter from me last year concerning the payment of pension cheques into bank accounts, said that that matter had been accepted in principle but there were administrative difficulties to overcome. I ask the Minister: When will these administrative difficulties be overcome? When will he be able to announce that pension cheques can be paid directly into bank accounts, with the ease and assistance this will provide for pensioners? I hope he can make an early announcement regarding this matter.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  the Opposition supports the pension proposals and wishes them speedy passage. 
The Government has continued to repeat its tired argument. The Government asserts that arguments propounded against its proposed health scheme are only arguments to protect vested interests. The arguments which are advanced from this side of the House - I believe they contain a tremendously overwhelming quality - are directed to protect the vested interests of the people of Australia. We wish to assist their vested interests by obtaining and maintaining for the Australian people the best welfare service available by way of a scheme whose application is practical. That scheme is in existence now. It certainly can be improved; we all admit that. We wish to continue to provide a service that exists and which is not just ideological theory. 
From time to time in the course of this debate honourable members on both sides of the House have mentioned the position in the United Kingdom. Government supporters are very keen to quote the example of the national health scheme in the United Kingdom when they refer to how their Government scheme will keep down health costs in Australia. They say that because of the overall government control of health and medical services exercised in Britain, the percentage of expenditure devoted to the operation of the health service has been kept down to an acceptable level and to a lower figure by comparison with costs in Australia. On the other hand, whenever Opposition members take up the argument made by using the United Kingdom as an example to point out some of the disadvantages of that scheme and what will happen here, Government supporters say: 'Well, our scheme is not similar at all to the United Kingdom scheme'. But Government supporters use the example of the United Kingdom scheme to support their argument about keeping costs down in Australia by introducing a similar scheme. They cannot have it both ways. If one looks a little further at the situation in the United Kingdom at the moment, one can see why overall costs are being kept down in that country. The reason is that the health scheme is being bankrupted. Plenty of evidence to this effect is coming by way of reports from the United Kingdom at present. 
The honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris),  referring to the situation in the United Kingdom, said: 'Ah, but our scheme is different from the scheme in the United 
Kingdom. Ours is fee for service; the scheme in the United Kingdom is based on salaries.' The honourable member should have a little closer look at the community health centre program that is being expanded very rapidly throughout Australia and also at the increasing number of salaried doctor services provided in those community health centres. If he looks at the position a little closer I suggest that he will not continue with his argument that the system proposed by the Labor Government will be dissimilar from that which operates in the United Kingdom. 
While referring to the United Kingdom, I point out that at present the second stage of the scheme is being introduced in that country. The introduction of that second stage is being speeded up because of the force of union pressure. Private and intermediate patients are to be forced out of public hospitals altogether. The first stage of the scheme in the United Kingdom program permitted private and intermediate patients to continue to be treated in those categories, as has been the situation in Australia and which this Government claims will continue to be the practice under its scheme. But if we look at the first stage of the scheme in Britain - forget about what is happening under the second stage of that scheme at the moment - and remember what the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Thorburn)  said about the number of operations of various types per 1,000 persons in Australia when compared with the number of operations of the same types in the United Kingdom, the facts which reveal that more of these operations are performed in Australia per 1,000 persons than in the United Kingdom tie in very nicely with the comments coming constantly from the United Kingdom that people who need non-urgent surgery in that country must wait for anything up to 2 years for that surgery unless they are prepared to pay the full cost of private clinic treatment. That explains the statistics presented by the honourable member for Cook. That explains also what the situation will be in Australia if ever the Labor scheme eventuates. Do not let Government supporters argue that their intention is not to have operating in Australia a scheme similar to that in the United Kingdom. One needs to look only at what is being attempted at present in Canberra where proposals identical to those operating in the United Kingdom are being introduced. 
What about the second stage of the United Kingdom scheme which is now being introduced? I think the Australian people have a right to know whether the Government, if it is successful in introducing the first stage of its scheme, will continue its development by introducing a second stage by which people other than those at standard or public ward levels will be prevented from gaining admission to ordinary public hospitals. The Bills before the House concern the financing of the Government's proposed national health scheme; they do not concern the scheme itself. I believe that these Bills have to be considered in the context of the accelerating inflation in this country at the present time, particularly because a health care system that is labour intensive by nature has an accelerated inflation rate of twice to three times the ordinary inflation rate in the community generally. 
The Government made many expensive promises during the last election and has many expansive reports before it at the present time. It has education proposals and proposals for pre-school and child care, a superannuation scheme, a compensation scheme and social welfare schemes. All of these are tremendously expensive, no matter how good they may be for the country. But reality has already caught up with the Government. Before it has even considered 2 of its most expensive schemes, those concerning compensation9 and superannuation, which the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  mentioned would require massive increases in taxation to finance, the pre-schools scheme so loudly trumpeted during the recent election has already been truncated. The abolition of the means test for those between 70 and 75 years of age has been deferred. Before the cost of all the schemes that have been promised, proposed and considered has been added up the Government has found that it cannot finance all of these proposals or even half of them. 
To a large extent by its own pace-setter policies the Government has brought about the highest inflation rate this country has seen. This inflation is still accelerating. Where does the Government's health scheme fit into the overall budgetary concept that a responsible government must have in the present inflationary situation? A White Paper was presented to the Parliament in early November 1973. One assumes that the figures contained in it were taken out some months earlier. The total of the small parts of these figures is greater than the Government usually states and the White 
Paper was vague in some respects. The main point is that the figures are already 12 months out of date. They are for a scheme which was to commence at the beginning of this financial year. The earliest this scheme can commence - I believe it will not commence even then - is 1 July 1975. So these figures will be 2 years out of date by then and a lifetime out of date because of the inflation between now and then. These figures will be so out of date and therefore so unreliable that one will not be able to use them in a budgetary context. The White Paper, after referring to other sources of revenue for the funding of the scheme, states in paragraph 7.8 on page 69:  7.8 The remaining source of revenue of the Health Insurance Fund proposed by the Planning Committee was a special levy on workers' compensation and motor  verhicle  third party insurance premiums including the notional premiums paid by organisations which carry their own insurance. The Government will study all aspects of this proposal with a view to developing suitable arrangements to recoup the amounts now provided from these sources which, under the new program, will be met by the Health Insurance Fund. The new arrangements should not result in increased premium costs to insured employers or motor vehicle owners. 
How does that fit in with the compensation scheme which has been presented? I presume that the sources of funds available for a compensation scheme have been taken over and therefore the Government will have to find some other source of finance for its national health scheme. Although the figures given in the White Paper are out of date, it would be interesting to know how much the Government would actually have netted? One has to add to the already out of date and incomplete figures in the White Paper a new dimension, and that is the widespread introduction of community health centres staffed by doctors on a salary and free of patient fees. I am not arguing that there should not be health centres. I support them in areas of need. There is an argument about whether the cost of a consultation with a general practitioner in a salaried service at, say, Melba is greater or less than the cost of a consultation with a general practitioner working under a fee for service system. But there is the additional cost of ancillary services which are provided in these health centres by very laudable people. The cost of their services has to be added to the cost of the Government's program. Therefore we have a completely new dimension. The cost of these ancillary services which will be added to the overall scheme was not taken into account when the White Paper was drawn up over 12 months ago. 
Two independent reports have been made on the cost of the Government's proposals, one by Philip Shrapnel and Co. Pty Ltd and one by E. S. Knight and Co. These are professional groups. As professional people, in honour they have to preserve their accuracy and reliability. Both of them made estimates and expressed certain qualifications. It is no use smearing either of these groups because of the people who commissioned them. The only way the Government can answer the arguments advanced by these groups is to put up figures of its own that are up to date and more accurate. Just smearing the professional groups, which have an honour to preserve, or the people who commissioned them, is no answer, particularly in the present inflationary situation. Both Shrapnel and Knight calculated that the cost of the Government's scheme would be $400m more than what the Government had estimated. I shall quote the reply of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  to the Knight figures as reported in the 'Age'. The article states: 

 Mr Hayden said some of the projections which the actuaries commissioned by the AMA had made about the higher use of services under the new scheme were 'inaccurate, incredible and unrealistic'. 
The article further states: 

 Mr Hayden said he rejected the 'questionable assumption' of the report. 
The only way the Minister can successfully question those figures is to produce figures of his own which are up to date and which take into account all the costs that are involved in this scheme. I believe the Senate should demand up to date figures from the Minister or the Government before it is even prepared to debate the Bill preparatory to its rejection. Surely the Minister has these figures, because he must have a responsibility, as Minister for Social Security, to his Cabinet, to his Party and to his Prime Minister because of overall budgetary requirements in an inflationary situation. If he has these figures it is his responsibility to reveal them to the Parliament and to the Australian people. If he has not, not only should he be condemned but I believe the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  should also be condemned because at this time of great inflation in the nation they are not doing elementary national accounting with their Budget. They are not finding out what the up to date cost estimates are for their expensive programs. Surely if this Government claims it is responsible, that it is doing something about inflation, that it is looking at its own expenditure programs, it must have these figures. If it has not, all the more condemnation for it. 
I think you are right, because the truth is hurting. The reality of life in an inflationary situation is catching up with the Government's ideology. One could say: 'The scheme will not start until 1 July 1975. Why do we need the figures this year?' It must be remembered that the Government has a lot of other expensive programs. Unless the Government is to embark on a stop-start program such as it has with its pre-school program it has to take into calculation not only its programs commencing this year and continuing next year tout also major new programs which it hopes will commence next year. I have the suspicion that the Prime Minister has these figures. Otherwise why would he have said in the last couple of weeks that Australia could possibly have to pay out over twice as much of its gross national product on health care in 25 years time as it does now. That appears to point to an accelerating inflationary situation. Perhaps the Government has these figures, but because of fear of what they will mean to the people of Australia it is not prepared to reveal them. 0 
I have referred only to the national accounting figures or the budgetary items. What about the cost to the individual? I think the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  dealt with this aspect very well. Not only will the ordinary person have to pay a levy of 1.35 per cent of his income, which will have to be lifted, plus additional income tax because of transfers from ordinary taxation revenue, but he will also be forced to continue with private insurance, which will cost just as much as it does now, because there will toe no Commonwealth contribution, if he wants any guarantee of access to a hospital when he needs it. So the ordinary person with his own budgeting, as well as the country, will have to face an increasing escalation in costs. 
I would like to draw the attention of the Minister to a possible anomaly. I hope that he will correct me if I am wrong about this matter. It concerns the explanation of the levy. The explanatory memorandum states:  . . . a person who is entitled to deductions (for income tax purposes) for the maintenance of dependants of at least $100 and whose taxable income is  not greater than a prescribed amount - this amount would be $2,574 for 1974-75 , . . 
I take that to mean that anybody whose taxable income is not greater than that amount, after taking into consideration his dependant's allowances, actually will not have to pay the levy. If so, how does that fit in with the statement by the Minister on 10 July on the new limits for subsidised health benefits in which he said: 
Families with a gross weekly income of $68:50 or less will not have to pay health insurance fund contributions at all, provided they apply for the subsidy. 
The point I am coming to is that under the present health benefits scheme a person can earn approximately $3,500 and receive a health insurance cover free - he does not have to pay the insurance premium - but under the new scheme, if it were to start this year, a person would have to be earning only about $2,500, or about $1,000 less, before he would be up for the insurance levy. I hope that I have made a mistake and that I will be corrected. If I have not made a mistake it would seem that there is a rather curious anomaly in existence, although the Government has claimed that one of the major attractions of its scheme is that it will assist the poorer section of the community. People earning $10 a week more than the levy minimum in 1974 are being covered without cost but will have to pay under the new scheme. I admit that there are gaps and weaknesses in the present subsidised health benefits scheme, but the Opposition has stated quite clearly that it is its policy that the scheme should be amended and improved to allow the number of children and other factors to be altered so that a complete cover is provided for these people without any special taxation levy being imposed and without an insurance premium being charged. 
The Government is obstinately pursuing an ideological, impractical course. It is a course that will add to inflation, which is already bad enough. In the meantime, it is unnecessarily damaging the present scheme in the hope of forcing a desperate public to accept an untried, impractical scheme which, even if it were introduced, would not work, would add to inflation and would lower the standard of health care in this country. 
I accept the. point but I say that marginal dairy farmers will possibly become more marginal as a result of this Government's action. The decision that has been taken by the Government means that the only company which will gain will not be an Australian company; it will be that well known multinational corporation, Unilever. 
It is difficult to assess the furore over fund contributions and the Government action which led to it. It is difficult to assess it objectively because of the charges and countercharges that have taken place from both sides. It is unfortunate that confrontation rather than dialogue has been the action. It is particularly unfortunate because both sides are supposedly representing the will of the people. The Government supposedly is trying to help people with their health funds to provide cover against illness. On the other hand the mutual funds - basically co-operatives made up of subscribers - supposedly assist their subscribers to obtain this protection. The whole confrontation, rather than it being a matter of dialogue and cooperation, is to be deplored. It certainly is not helping the confidence of the people of New South Wales in respect of what they are actually covered for at present. 
If there is to be a prize for deviousness in this exercise it must go to the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  because he is pursuing a policy of denigrating the private health funds. I shall give two examples to show that I am not generalising. The major reason he gives for the amendments proposed by this Bill is that at present he considers there is uncertainty as to his power to vary an application for an increase in benefits or contribution rates. I quote a letter from the Department of Social Security dated 18 June and signed by  Mr W.  G. Armstrong, Assistant Director-General and delegate of the Minister for Social Security. This was in reply to an application by medical benefit funds in Queensland for an increased benefit. He wrote: 
You are advised that approval of the proposal to increase your organisation's Queensland hospital fund contribution rates, as notified in your letter of 26 February 1974 to the Department's Brisbane Office, has been refused. However, in pursuance of section 73b (c) of the National Health Act 1953-1973, the Minister has directed that you shall cause alterations to be made to your organisation's Queensland hospital fund rules to provide for the weekly contribution rate for -all members to the Private Table to be 63c (single) and $1.25 (family). 
The final paragraph of the letter relates to other contribution rates. In July the Minister said that he did not have the power to vary an application from a fund with respect to contribution rates but a letter dated 18 June signed by his delegate in response to an application from another fund in another State states that the Minister had the power and he directs the fund to adopt a different rate. In a letter later that month from the Medical Benefit Fund of New South Wales acting for the Queensland medical benefit fund the organisation agreed to the direction from the Minister. Why does the Minister have the power one month and not the power the next month to do what is required and what is being asked for now - to direct a variation? When one considers the provisions of the Bill one sees that with the exception of the provisions for an appeal to a judge or an arbitrator there appears to be little or no alteration. One wonders at the significance of some of the provisions included in the Bill. I should like the Minister to elaborate, if he can, on this aspect. 
The second area of deviousness which I draw to the attention of the House and which I should like the Minister to reply to concerns the sequence of events leading up to the confrontation. On 4 June the New South Wales State Cabinet made a decision that on 1 August - today - 'hospital bed charges in New South Wales would be increased by an average of SO per cent. On 18 June the New South Wales health funds received a preliminary circular from the Department of Social Security on this matter. On 8 July, in a circular dated 5 July, they received official confirmation that a meeting would take place on 11 July at which a senior officer would tell the New South Wales funds what policy the funds should follow in their submissions for variations of contribution and benefit rates. 1 understand the same  Mr Armstrong  was the senior officer at that meeting. I have been informed that  Mr Armstrong  told the assembled funds that they would have to bear all of those costs of the increased bed charges that the New South Wales Government was introducing on 1 August. He said that no increase would be allowed to the funds. If that is not correct I want the Minister to say so because it means, in effect, that it was a futile exercise, of which the funds were well aware after that meeting, to apply to the registration committee for an increase as they had been told in advance that any such application automatically would be refused. What a farce! This was a procedure so-called to sort out the problems of increasing costs and increasing benefits. The funds told the officer that they could not afford to bear the increased pay-outs in benefits. 
On 12 July the New South Wales funds received another circular announcing increased nursing home benefits. They were told that they would have to pay and that no increase in contributions would be allowed in any submission they made on this score. The funds were faced with a 50 per cent increase in hospital bed charges and a significant increase in benefit payments for nursing home beds and were told before they made any application for variations that their application would be turned down. Furthermore I ask whether it is a fact that in April the same  Mr Armstrong  told the funds that in future applications for increases in medical benefit contributions the assessment would be made on the basis of a 20 per cent rate for inflation in administration costs for the 2 months to the end of June - that is, the end of the 1973-74 financial year - but thereafter for this year a 10 per cent increase only would be allowed for inflation in their administration charges. Today inflation is accelerating at a rate of about 20 per cent annually. I want the Minister to confirm or deny this sequence of events because if it is true it makes a farce of the whole procedure. How true it makes the charge directed at the Minister that he is out to kill everything that is private, charitable, or religious or community based in our whole health system whether they are hospitals, doctors, nursing homes or health funds. 
The funds received a telegram informing them that their application had been rejected and advising them that once their annual returns were lodged, which I understand has to be by the end of September, their application possibly would be reconsidered. Will this be so or will a fresh application be required? 
The New South Wales funds received a telegram rejecting their application and stating that after their annual returns were lodged by the end of September the Department would reconsider their submission for increased contribution rates. Is this so or is it not so? Will it be reconsidered automatically or will a fresh application be required? Where does this put the Manchester Unity fund which is the third largest mutual fund in New South Wales and which has now applied for an even greater increase in contribution rates than the two that have already been rejected? Will they be automatically rejected? Remember, the 2 funds which have applied and whose applications have been rejected were seeking an increase of 40 per cent in contributions, whereas their pay-out in benefits is more than 50 per cent, so they are acknowledging and accepting a significant rundown in their reserves in this inflationary situation over the next 12 months. I do not think it is of any use for the Minister or any honourable member on his side of the House to wave the return of the registered medical and hospital funds before us for the year 1972-73 showing the state of the reserves in June 1973. That return is now more than 2 months out of date. We have an inflationary situation. Surely if the funds are acting responsibly their level of reserves must be gauged by present and future commitments, not on an historic situation. 
I want to put several more questions to the Minister. The moment this Bill receives assent will the Hospitals Contribution Fund and the Medical Benefits Fund be provided with an arbitrator to resolve the issue? Will the Minister not proceed with any possible court proceedings until such time as that arbitrator has reached a decision and delivered that decision? 1 believe that these 2 questions are of great importance for the Minister because he will be judged from here on by his attitude and his actions. If he acts in a co-operative manner, bearing in mind the responsibility to the majority of people in New South Wales, in an attempt to resolve the situation and does not continue with the confrontation, then the Minister will be judged as dealing responsibly. But if, the moment he receives this additional power from this legislation, he proceeds to act in an arbitrary manner, to penalise or attempt to penalise these organisations and, through them, the majority of the people in New South Wales, then he must be judged on this other basis of being out to kill anything of a private nature in our health system. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
It is understood that the outbreak of foot and and mouth disease in Brittany started on a pig farm. 
Can he also say whether or not the outbreak occurred because of swill feeding of remains of animal carcases. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is the Government considering the provision of finance to the States for the introduction of a school lunch program now that the school milk program has been terminated. 
If so. what progress has been made towards its implementation. 
If not, why not. 
-This is the fourth occasion on which this legislation has been debated. On the other 3 occasions the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  adopted the same approach as he has adopted today, that is, criticising the present scheme without once giving details of how the Government's proposed scheme will work. The Australian public wants to know how the Government's proposed scheme will work. The honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  at least gave some details but in doing so he gave away the devastating point, that under the Government's proposed scheme people will still need to take out private health insurance and at a considerably increased cost. The Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland),  with all his socalled expertise in propaganda, was unable to put forward a convincing argument in favour of the Government's proposal. A significant omission from the list of speakers from the other side of the chamber who are to take part in this debate is the honourable member for Prospect,  Dr Klugman.  In fairness to  Dr Klugman  I should say that he has expressed doubts about the present scheme, but he has also expressed doubts about the scheme that those who sit on his side of the chamber are putting forward. All of those things add up to the worst fears which have developed and been confirmed in the minds of those who sit in the Opposition since the debate started, that is, that this scheme is unworkable. The Government has not given any details as to how it will work. Presumably that is because it does not know how it will work. Another factor that has to be taken into consideration in relation to this matter is the problem of skyrocketing and accelerating costs, as the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  has said. The experience of other countries which have similar schemes has confirmed the Opposition's fears that the proposed scheme will be an expensive and unworkable one. 
The best summary of the opposition of those who sit on this side of the chamber to this scheme is provided in the amendment that we moved in relation to it during the first debate on it last year. The points we made were, firstly, that it would lower the quality of medical care to Australian families; second, that it would increase the total cost to the Government and thus to the taxpayer; third, that it would increase the cost to an individual because, in addition to increased taxation, expensive additional private insurance would be required to maintain health care standards; fourth, that it would reduce the freedom of choice of doctors and hospitals; fifth, that it would jeopardise the future of religious, private and country hospitals; and, sixth, that it would be the first stage of nationalisation of health care in Australia. Anybody who doubts the last point should look at what is happening in Great Britain at the present time. 
The reason why there are so many faults with the Government's proposal is that the basic approach of the Government is wrong. The Government is adopting a revolutionary rather than evolutionary approach to our health care system. What happens with revolutionary approaches? They bring confusion and chaos. It should be remembered that at least 92 per cent of the Australian public are covered at present for hospital and medical care. Surely that is not a revolutionary situation. After 30 years of a national health scheme Great Britain has managed to cover approximately 96 per cent- or 4 per cent more- of its population. It has been admitted in the Scotton and Deeble report that the Government's scheme will cover initially only 80 per cent, which is considerably less than the 92 per cent covered at present. It has also been admitted that it will take some time to pick up the difference. So we are arguing about 4 per cent or less of the population. Surely that is not a problem that requires drastic revolutionary surgery that will turn the whole health care system into confusion and chaos. One should add to that the fact that according to gallup polls a majority of Australians has consistently shown themselves to be opposed to it and that the vast majority of those involved in the health care system are opposed to it, including the doctors. Anyone who is critical of the doctors should remember that under the Labor Government's proposed scheme they would earn more and work less hours; yet they are still opposed to it. 
The Opposition agrees that the present scheme needs improving. The pensioner medical scheme and the subsidised health benefits plan for low income earners are not perfect. There are problems with them. We freely admit there are. We have put forward proposals ourselves to simplify and improve the schemes. Surely that is what the Government should be doing- updating the present scheme rather than destroying it. The Labor Party claims that its scheme will help the poor people in this country. It will not. It will harm them for 4 reasons. I will give some examples that have come forward in the last few weeks. Under the Labor scheme, if it had started on 1 July of this year, a family man with a taxable income of $2,500- that is a man who earns only a little more than $50 a week- would have to pay a special taxation levy of 1.35 per cent. Under the present subsidised health benefits plan- imperfect though it is- with the recent alterations, a family man can earn up to $3,500 and be completely covered for hospital and medical benefits with the Government paying his contributions and he still does not have to pay any special tax levy. In other words, even with the Government's great scheme the lower income people- those people earning $1,000 less than the people who are now covered without charge- will be caught and will have to pay a special tax levy. 
The second way in which the Government scheme will harm poor people is that it will reduce access to public beds because people who previously used intermediate beds or private beds will be forced into using public beds because of the increased costs of intermediate and private beds. Third, it will polarise the health system in this country. Instead of having a reasonable community approach to health in Australia there will be a polarisation between those who, on the one hand, are forced to use the public system and the wealthy who, on the other and, can well afford to pay for special private hospitals and private facilities. Those wealthy people using private facilities will take with them a disproportionate share of our health delivery people- doctors, nurses and so on- so, in a situation of shortages, depriving people who use public wards and ordinary faculties of the services of these urgently needed people. 
The fourth point is that the community support which has been apparent for health and hospitals generally will be lost. Because of this polarisation there will not be this broad spectrum of support. This will be particularly so in country areas where it has been most apparent and once again the ordinary person will lose. In the time available to me in this debate it is not possible to detail every point of opposition to the scheme but I want to refer to 2 points. The first point concerns freedom of choice and religious hospitals. Of all hospital beds in this country 20 per cent are in private, religious or charitable hospitals. The second point to remember is that, as the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  said, 80 per cent of all Australians prefer and use intermediate or private ward accommodation rather than public ward accommodation. Under our free choice arrangement at the present time 80 per cent of Australians opt for the intermediate or private ward accommodation. 
If the Government's scheme comes in, the cost of private and intermediate beds will increase because the Government supported insurance scheme will not be available for these 2 types of accommodation. Nothing Government supporters may say can alter this position. Insurance will still be available but it will not be the Government supported insurance that we have at the present time. That means that these types of hospitals will not have people coming to them because they will not be able to afford to use them as they have in the past. This will create a dilemma for them. The hospitals will either have to close or accept public ward accommodation. The Act states quite clearly that if a private hospital decides that it wants to have one or two wards turned into public ward accommodation, under this scheme it is the Minister and not the hospital itself who will decide how many of those wards and how many of those beds will become public. Instead of one or two wards becoming private wards, the whole hospital could be taken over by the Minister. He has complete power to do so under section 34 of the Act. In addition, it is the Minister who decides how much money will be provided to those hospitals for those public ward patients. The Minister will have dictatorial power over private, religious and charitable hospitals. 
I make another point: At the present time under the existing scheme there is a special provision known as the special account. Under the special account a patient's insurance is taken over by the Government after he or she has been in hospital for 180 days. This system provides a guarantee for long term patients and it also reduces the cost of health insurance. But Labor's proposal will abolish the special account. Many private and religious hospitals specialise in long term patients such as orthopaedic and psychiatric cases. Because private insurance will be more expensive as a result of the cutting out of the special account provisions many of these long term cases will be forced back into public wards after 180 days. These cases will be accepted in public wards only if the beds are available, and, as the honourable member for Hotham detailed, this will be subject to the level of the increased bed utilisation that will result. It will not be easy and it probably will not be possible for many of these people to take out insurance cover under the proposed scheme because of the additional cost that will result when the special account guarantee ends. 
Two specialist Sydney hospitals which could possibly be forced to close because of the abolition of the special account are St John of God at Brighton and Mount St Margaret at Ryde. These examples can be multiplied right throughout Australia. So the religious, private and charitable hospitals are faced with a terrible dilemma. If they are to remain open to a large extent they will have to accept public ward beds, but if they do that they will become employees of the Commonwealth and they will no longer be carrying out the vocation for which they were established. Catholic hospitals are concerned that under such circumstances they could be forced to conduct abortions, and there is no guarantee against this in the legislation. 
Government supporters- Oh. 
You can say what you like but I ask you to stand up and prove otherwise. 
-It is a shocking claim because it is a shocking truth that one has to reveal. So much for the Government's claim that it will not restrict freedom of choice. "What is freedom of choice if a person does not have the right to go to a private or religious hospital if he so chooses? 
The next point I want to make relates to the cost to the nation of the proposed scheme. The Leader of the Opposition made the point very well that there will be an increase in the gross domestic product expended on health from 5 to 12 per cent. The costs therefore will basically double almost immediately. The Minister for Social Security is very good at criticising the cost estimates of other people's schemes but consistently refuses to update his rather inaccurate cost estimates of 12 months ago. The only cost estimates that we have from the Minister and the Government are those provided in the White Paper which are now 12 months out of date. He has never updated them. He has never successfully countered the number of bodies that have criticised these figures. Shrapnel and Knight, 2 independent actuaries, have said that the Minister has underestimated the cost by $400m and State health ministers have said the same. More recently the Taxpayers' Association of Victoria has claimed an 82 per cent increase. Not only will there be an increased cost to the nation but there will also be an increased cost to the individual who will have to pay the special tax levy of 1 .35 per cent plus, as that percentage will have to be increased; he will also be required, out of ordinary taxation from general revenue, to pay for the deficit in the health fund. In addition, 80 per cent of Australians want more than public ward accommodation. As this scheme will provide cover for only public ward accommodation, these individuals will have to take out private insurance just as they do now. If Government supporters opposite do not believe me, they should believe what was said by the honourable member for Perth who gave it away 2 speeches ago. But private insurance will be very expensive partly because the special account will not operate under the new scheme to provide the safeguards and guarantees and also because the private insurance scheme will not have government backing. 
I want to quote from an article which was published in the Melbourne 'Herald' of 31 July, about 2 weeks ago. In commenting on what the Taxpayer's Association had to say about the increased cost that a person will pay, it stated: 
The Australian Government's proposed new health scheme will be 'a mathematical shambles that in some cases will more than double health care cost,' the Taxpayers' Association said. 
The scheme will represent a costly and retrograde step, the association says in the latest edition of its magazine, the Taxpayer. 
It gives the example of an average family, comprising a husband, a wife who works, and 2 children. Their health insurance bill will jump 82 per cent under the new scheme, it says. 
If the Government wishes to criticise some of those who have put forward cost figures disagreeing by $400m with the Government estimate, I do not think it can say very much in criticism of the Taxpayers Association which looks after and speaks up for the ordinary taxpayer in the community. The newspaper report states quite clearly that the health bill for the average family man will increase by 82 per cent.  Mr Acting Chairman,  the Government should stop its senseless, socialist stampede for a costly, unworkable scheme that will reduce health care standards, reduce freedom of choice and put many of our hospitals at peril. Instead, the Government should come to its senses and update the present scheme for the benefit of all Australians 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Navy received any complaints about the quality of its foul weather clothing issue. 
Is it generally considered to be inferior to that provided by the Army and the Air Force. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) How many Naval personnel have been charged with the possession or pushing of drugs during 1971, 1972, 1973 and 1974 to date. 
Have the men so charged been discharged from the Navy and no other action taken. 
What remedial treatment has been provided for these men while still in the Navy or after discharge. 
Are there 21 Naval personnel in Victoria at present charged with the possession of marihuana, and has a civilian working for the Navy been charged with drug pushing. 
Has there been any liaison between Naval authorities and the Victorian Police Drug Squad to ascertain from where the marihuana has been obtained so that the drug ring may be broken. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Does a special train, for the sole use of Naval personnel, leave Crib Point for Flinders Street Station every Friday night and return on Monday morning. 
Do very few and sometimes no sailors use this train. 
What has been the average number of passengers on each of these train trips during 1 974 to date. 
How much does the provision of this train cost the Department of Defence each year. 
Have alternative arrangements been considered, such as a bus to and from Frankston or Melbourne. 
Is it a fact that the Navy possesses suitable buses at HMAS 'Cerberus'. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the target strength of the Naval Police. 
How many Naval Police are there at present. 
How many of these have been transferred from other duties to alleviate the shortfall. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that 12 Naval Tradesmen have been travelling each day from HMAS 'Lonsdale ' at Port Melbourne in a chartered 42 seat bus to work on HMAS 'Derwent' at Williamstown, 12 miles away, while at the same time another chartered 42 seat bus also travels from HMAS Lonsdale' to HMAS 'Duchess' at Williamstown carrying 12 duty watch Naval personnel. 
If so, is this an efficient use of departmental finance. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Government propose to restructure the Australian Dairy Produce Board and the Australian Dairy Industry Council. 
Does the Government agree that, as Victoria produces over half of Australia's dairy output, its membership on the Commonwealth Equalisation Committee, Australian Dairy Industry Council and Australian Dairy Produce Board should reflect this dominant position. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
1 ) What water conservation and drainage projects have received financial assistance from the present Government. 
Which of these projects received approval from the previous Government. 
) What projects are being considered at the moment. 

 Dr Cass The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The following water conservation and drainage projects have received financial assistance from the present Government. 
Queensland 
Baralaba Weirs (Lower Dawson River) 
Bundaberg Irrigation Project 
Fairbairn Dam (Nogoa River) 
Kinchant Dam (North Eton Project) 
Ross River Dam (Stage 1 ) 
New South Wales 
Copeton Dam (Gwydir River) 
Flood Mitigation- New South Wales Coastal Rivers 
Victoria 
Dartmouth Dam 
King River Dam 
Millewa Pipeline Project 
Salinity Reduction Program (River Murray) 
South Australia 
Lock to Kimba Pipeline 
Tailem Bend to Keith Pipeline 
Western Australia 
Ord River Irrigation Project 
The previous Government approved all the above projects, with the exception of Baralaba Weirs, Kinchant Dam and Ross River Dam (Stage 1 ). 
The following projects are being considered at present: 
New South Wales 
Namoi River Weirs 
Queensland 
Advancetown Dam and Gold Coast flood mitigation 
Boyne River Dam (Gladstone Area) 
Brisbane Creeks flood mitigation 
Bundaberg Irrigation Project 
Burdekin Extension Project (Clare Weir/Urannah Dam) 
Julius Dam 
Karumba WaterSupply 
Leslie Dam (Stage 2) 
Mount Isa Water Board 
Queensland flood mitigation projects (Pioneer River, Proserpine River) 
Ross River Dam Stage 2 
Wivenhoe Dam on Brisbane River 
South Australia 
Water Treatment  for  Metropolitan Adelaide 
Tasmania 
North West (Tasmania) Water Supply Scheme 
Victoria 
Mitchell River Dam 
Western Australia 
Carnarvon and Gascoyne Groundwater Supply Scheme 
Employment Opportunities for Officers from Papua New Guinea  (Question No.  205) 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Who are the members of the Food Standards Committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council, and what is the basis of their membership. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Government intend to establish a Bureau of Animal Health; if so, when. 
Will the Bureau be administered by his Department or transferred to the Department of Agriculture. 
Is it his wish that it be transferred to the Department of Agriculture. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) What percentage of the vegetable oil necessary for the manufacture of poly-unsaturated margarine in Australia is imported. 
Is Australia importing an increasing amount of these oils. 
Is it a fact that approximately 80 per cent of the safflower oil necessary for the new margarine .ka-n, ' will have to be imported. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture upon notice: 
How many (a) successful and (b) unsuccessful applicants have there been in each State for the 2 categories of the Fruitgrowing Reconstruction Scheme up to 1 July 1 974. 
How many acres of each variety of fruit have been cleared by the Scheme in each State, and what is the average price paid per acre for each variety in each State. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Health. I understand that the Minister has presented a final draft proposal for new regulations to restrict further the advertising of therapeutic goods. Is it the Minister's intention to invoke unilaterally that part of the regulations which relate to the air media or does he intend to await the views of the States on the uniformity of regulations affecting all the media? 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
How many (a) successful and (b) unsuccessful applications for migration to Australia from (i) the Philippines, (ii) Hong Kong, (iii) Malaysia, (iv) Singapore and (v) India have been processed by his Department in each of the last 5 years and in 1974 to 1 July, listing Caucasian applicants separately. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Who has accompanied him on each of his overseas trips 
Of these, who have been (a) his family, ( b ) Ministerial staff, (c) ABC representatives, (d) other media representatives and (e) departmental officers. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How much research is being done into deafness in Australia. 
How much is being spent, at what institutions, and on what aspects of deafness. 
Is it a fact, as stated by Professor Clark, that Australia is not pulling its weight in research into deafness. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) What steps have been taken to introduce a new basis of payments for manufacturing milk. 
Does the Government agree that a basis of payment which includes total solids or protein in addition to butterfat is overdue. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the present position of the development and introduction of a butter/vegetable oil blend on the Australian market. 
Can the Minister assure the dairy industry that the control of this product will be vested solely in that industry. 
Is the Minister satisfied that sufficient research is being conducted in Australia into easy spread butters. 
Is it a fact New Zealand is well ahead of Australia in this field. 
) Does the Government agree that the introduction of a butter/vegetable oil blend should be deferred pending market development of a new easy spread butter research. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) In view of the repeated statements that the Phosphate Fertilizers Bounty is to end because of the improvement in farmer prosperity, is it intended that the subsidy will be reintroduced upon any future fall in prices for farm products. 
If so, what criteria will be used to ascertain when it should be re-introduced. 
If not, will this be a breach of an implied promise in the announcement of the reason why the bounty is ending. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the figures for the various categories of farm build-up and debt adjustment under the Rural Reconstruction Scheme, up to 1 July 1974, in respect of (a) the number of successful and unsuccessful applicants for these categories and (b) the average amount paid or loaned to the successful applicants in each State and for each sector of primary industry. 
What sum has been advanced to the States in each of the 6 month periods since the inception of the Scheme. 
What rates of interest are currently being charged for loans provided under the Scheme. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
Will the Minister provide up to date details on the Marginal Dairy Farms Reconstruction Scheme. 
How many (a) successful and (b) unsuccessful applicants were there in each State in each year since the Scheme commenced. 
What was the average amount paid to successful applicants in each State in each year. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Government considered providing financial assistance to the nationally important progeny testing scheme to produce superior sires for the dairy industry. 
Does the Government agree that this would be a most efficient and equitable way of assisting the industry and increasing productivity. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
In what States or sections of States is a test and slaughter program at present being conducted for the eradication of bovine brucellosis. 
2 ) When is it anticipated that the remaining States or sections of States will begin a test and slaughter program for this disease. 
Is compensation paid in any State upon the notification of this disease. 
When will compensation be paid in all States to encourage eradication. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) How many cattle were exported in each of the years 1972 and 1973 and during 1974 to date. 
What breed and sex were they. 
To what countries were they exported. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Can the Minister confirm a report in the 'Manchester Guardian' that the Turkish Government wrote to the International Red Cross in Geneva renouncing the Geneva Conventions on the rules of war shortly before the attack on Famagusta on 15 August 1974. 
Can the Minister also confirm that the International Red Cross reminded Turkey of its obligations as a signatory to the Geneva Conventions on 2 1 July 1974 the day after the invasion of Cyprus. 
What steps has the Minister taken to express the abhorrence of the Australian people to any breakdown of the Geneva Conventions by any of the parties to the Cyprus conflict. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) What Government and other Australian representatives are to attend the World Food Conference in Rome in November 1974. 
Has the Australian Government any proposals to put to the Conference on (a) the need for a global grain stockpile, (b) ways and means of overcoming the shortage and escalating prices of fertiliser particularly in developing countries and (c) international income stability and minimum price arrangements to encourage food production and help reduce the difference in standards of living between rural and non-rural people. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the terms of reference of the Interim Committee on the Production of Pharmaceutical Products. 
Who are the members of the committee. 
When is it expected to submit its report. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
When will the Industries Assistance Commission report on the level of protection for the pharmaceutical and veterinary products industry be presented to Parliament. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Premier of Victoria requested support for or consideration of flood mitigation proposals, as distinct from flood reclamation assistance, for the State of Victoria. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Did he refuse the request of the States for hospital benefits to be paid for short-term patients in psychiatric hospitals; if so, why. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What is his attitude to the request of State Health Ministers for tax deductibility for ambulance subscriptions and charges. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
When will the Government allow transferability of hostel bed entitlements under the Aged Persons Hostels Act 1972 from those organisations not willing to use the grants to other organisations able and willing to build hostels. 
As the Act is limited to 3 years, will he take heed of the need for early approval of transferability. 
-The Prime Minister will recall that he wrote to the Premiers of New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland on 27 September asking that hospitals presently being constructed or about to commence construction at Mount Gravatt, Campbelltown, Westmead and Sunshine be handed over to the Commonwealth Government. The 3 -week period for the Premiers to reply has elapsed. Has the Prime Minister received any replies; if so, what are they? As the Prime Minister obviously believes, by his Government's action in engaging a consortium of architects to plan a standard hospital for the 4 sites, that the States will reject the request, where will these hospitals be constructed and when will construction commence? Will the Prime Minister accept the sensible compromise proposed by the Queensland Minister for Health that the Queensland money be used to reconstruct the Mater Hospital in Brisbane? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Has a critical situation developed along the north and north west coasts with the increasing possibility of exotic diseases, drugs and illegal migrants entering Australia in this area. 
What steps is the Royal Australian Navy taking to increase coastal surveillance along this coast. 
Has the number of patrol boats available for this purpose been reduced from 20 to 10 because of gifts to other countries. 
Has consideration been given to purchasing more of these boats to provide a more adequate surveillance. 
Has consideration been given to the establishment of a Coast Guard Service either in the Navy or as a separate Service. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
How much aerial surveillance of the north and north west coasts is being conducted by long range reconnaissance aircraft of the Royal Australian Air Force to prevent illegal entry of aeroplanes, fishermen, etc., which could allow exotic diseases, drugs, etc, into Australia. 
Has this surveillance been increased in the last few months. 
If not, is this due to shortage of fuel, of aircraft or lack of concern about the situation. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his Department conducted any research or supported any research by others into the control and eradication of European Carp. 
Have any requests been received from State Departments for assistance in the control of this fish. 
-For somebody who claims to be proud of the Labor Government's social service achievements the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Coates)  did not speak with any great enthusiasm. Perhaps he is worried about whether he should really have the courage of his convictions in what he is saying and cross the floor when it comes to a vote on the Opposition's amendment to bring in provisions for supporting fathers and deserted fathers. The collection of proposals in this Bill would be rounded off very well if the amendment put by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  in relation to provisions for widowers and deserted husbands were accepted. The package which the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  has put forward is certainly acceptable as far as it goes. The acceptance of the Opposition's amendment would take it that much further and would cover one of the main anomalies in the present system. The Minister has covered one of the major anomalies by introducing the handicapped child's allowance. I congratulate him for that. The acceptance of our proposition in respect of widowers and deserted husbands would cover the other major anomaly which exists in the system at the present time. 
The rent allowance, as it is called, is to be increased by $1 a week. This is the first increase in this allowance in 2 years of Labor Government administration. It will increase the allowance by 25 per cent. But to keep up with inflation and with what the real value of that rent allowance was at the end of the Liberal-Country Party Government administration there would need to be a 40 per cent increase. We on this side accept that the Government is not in favour of people owning their own homes, but surely it should be in favour of making provision for adequate cover for rent allowance. There is also the problem of rate assistance. I believe it is a legitimate responsibility of the Commonwealth Government to provide at the Federal level rate assistance as well as rent assistance because many areas of poverty are just as great in the case of people who own their own homes when the breadwinner has died. This is particularly so if the breadwinner dies while the home is still being paid off. I believe that in this situation there is greater poverty than in the area now eligible for the rent allowance. Some of the States have assistance schemes- to my knowledge none of them is satisfactoryin an area which I believe is a genuine Commonwealth responsibility. I would prefer the Commonwealth to be moving in this direction than in some areas which are not genuine Commonwealth responsibilies but which it seems very keen to take over. I would hope that the Minister, if he is still the Minister for Social Security in the future, will give consideration to this in the next revision of social security benefits. 
As I said earlier, I congratulate the Minister on introducing the handicapped child's allowance. We had this as a part of our policy for the election following the double dissolution. It is something that our side has considered to be a great need. This need will be filled with the payment of this allowance. I presume that the criteria for the eligibility of this allowance will be spelt out in greater detail. I note that the Minister has said that he hopes that the States will not reduce assistance in this area. I would support him on this. Some of the States do have valuable assistance available with some help. This extends to provisions which allow the parents of handicapped children to escape from the onerous duty they have of caring for these children, in some cases virtually around the clock. Help of this kind enables parents to get away from the home and away from the tension that many of these children create. I certainly support the Minister's contention now that the Commonwealth has moved in with some financial assistance in this area that some of the practical forms of assistance provided by the States, including assistance which allows the parents to get away should not be cut out at the State level. 
The Minister also recognises the need to provide pension rights to a greater degree for de facto wives. I should like to draw his attention to quite a problem with pension payments to de facto wives who have become widowed. About once a month a person in this category would come to my office. I do not know what percentage of the total problem this represents in my area. But there is certainly a very real problem. In the case of a de facto relationship where the person is not entitled to receive the widow's pension she was receiving because the claim was made on the basis that she was being supported as a married person. Because of this she is caught out. It may be that because her neighbours do not like her and are spreading suspicion in this regard the pension is stopped. It is very difficult for these people to be re-established with a pension. I know of one case recently in which for 3 months, no matter what was done in this city of about 10,000 people, the social security inspector would not accept that this woman had ended such a relationship. She had 5 children. She had no other income. The only way this pension could be re-introduced was for the male party to go to Melbourne. This raised considerable problems in regard to his job opportunities and any assets that he may have had in that community. But this woman had no pension and no income at all during this time and one of the children actually was taken into protective custody. 
I know that this is a difficult situation. But I hope that in some cases- I know that one has to be careful- perhaps more compassion will be used when a decision is being made whether to restore a pension to those who have been either caught out or have been under such heavy suspicion, either justifiably or unjustifiably that the payment of a pension ceases. 
I have just given honourable members an example of a current case. If the benefit is being administered more sympathetically we have yet to see it. The administration of this benefit by this Government appears to be no different from what its administration was under the previous Government. But to me it is a problem irrespective of what government is in power. 
The general problem for any pensioner is his real ability to survive in an inflationary situation. It does not matter whether the Government raises pensions by $3, $5 or $10 a week; in the hyper-inflationary situation we have at the present such increases are only a money illusion. No matter what the Government says it is doing for pensioners, they are being harmed by this inflationary situation. The best thing that the Government can do for pensioners is to reduce inflation. In many cases inflation is reducing the value of their hard earned savings, which they may have collected over many years. The Government has created a money illusion which for a time I believe has convinced pensioners that they have been better off. But in reality they are worse off, particularly pensioners who had any savings at all. The Government has not stepped up its program to extend the means test to cover all pensioners and it has not increased the supplementary assistance benefit to keep pace with inflation. So all of these people are worse off. 
The base pension has already fallen to under 22 per cent of average weekly earnings and the Government has to wait until next March or April before it can make its next projected increase. By that time, taking into account the inflation rate at the present time, the base pension will be down to about 1 8 per cent of average weekly earnings. What has happened to the Government's proud boast that it would raise the base pension to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings? In addition the Government should take account of all of the other problems that inflation has caused all the pensioners in this country. The Government has done a greater disservice to pensioners of this country than any previous Government in living memory. This has been the result of the inflation that the Government has created. 
Incentives are important to pensioners. They encourage pensioners to help themselves but the Government has not allowed incentives to keep pace with inflation. The Minister has stated that he has placed widowers and deserted husbands on the same basis as widows and deserted wives by allowing them to receive special benefits. My information is that the previous Minister for Social Services, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  also allowed this and that there are only about 5,000 recipients of special benefits in Australia. Why does the Government not accept that the honourable member for Mackellar has put forward a constructive and sensible amendment. The means test arrangements are the same whether benefit is provided by the honourable member's amendment or as a special benefit in the way mentioned by the Minister. The difference is that under the honourable member's amendment we do not require this rigmarole of investigation. If the honourable member's amendment were accepted we would really be achieving something and removing a major anomaly which exists in respect of pension entitlements at present. 
Supporters of the Government said earlier tonight- we have heard this many times from the other side in the last few weeks- that members of the Caucus really rule the Labor Party. We have heard how members of the Caucus have the right to change the decisions of Cabinet and that they are their own men. Why do they not act as their own men tonight and have the courage of their convictions? Why do they not accept that this is a sensible and constructive proposal? Instead of saying that things can be changed only when changes are suggested by the Government, surely it would be more constructive and sensible for supporters of the Government to say: 'Let us change things when the other side makes an acceptable suggestion'. They should accept and vote for the amendment. By so doing they will be rendering a real service to the pensioners of this country and when they speak in future they will be able to do so with a little more enthusiasm. 
-I am not opposed to the principle of a national compensation and rehabilitation scheme for personal injury and sickness generally based on no fault, and I believe the amendment that is presented to the House by the Opposition supports this view. The big issue in this debate is whether we are really debating in this Bill as it now stands a satisfactory legislative arrangement for the incorporation of that principle. As the Bill now stands, the answer is obviously no. The fact that the Government at the very last minute has presented 46 amendments already- and one could question how many more amendments will come with time- proves this point. 
I accept that the present arrangements are incomplete and unsatisfactory in many ways. There are unnecessary costs, there are gaps, there is tardiness in making payments to people who need immediate payment for injuries. I support the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  when he says that we had the document commenting on the 46 amendments last night, but the amendments themselves were obtained only at the time he suggested today. Even with these amendments, I suggest the present Bill falls short of the principles enunciated, the principles which I believe find widespread support on both sides of the House. There is no statement from the Government on how much this scheme will cost, in view of the amendments and alterations to the original report. There has been no suggestion as to how this finance will be raised. This is not a minor proposal. It is one of the major, if not the most major, proposals the Government has introduced.  Mr Justice  Woodhouse has suggested that it will cost a minimum of $ 1,600m when in full operation. Having regard to the present rampant inflation, and accepting that the Government would be socially bound to update the payments, the amount it would cost when in full operation would be substantially higher than that. But this cost cannot be considered in isolation. One has to look also at the other very expensive schemes that the Government proposes to introduce. There is the health scheme, which has been costed at the moment at around $ 1,500m. 
The wool subsidy happens to be a commercial loan on commercial interest rates which the Government prevented the banks providing. So the less we hear about the alleged wool subsidy the more honest and accurate this debate will be. As I have said, the health scheme has been costed at around $l,500m. How much will the proposed superannuation scheme cost? Two steps have still to be taken concerning the abolition of the means test. It would cost approximately $400m to $500m to bring it back to 70- year-olds, and then there is the further step back to the 65-year-olds. One should add those figures together and see what percentage of total Government expenditure at present they amount to. 
I believe that it is logical for the Government to withdraw this Bill at this time to allow the Government more time to study the implications of the Bill. It is obvious that more than 46 amendments to it will be forthcoming. The proposal as presented should be subjected to public scrutiny and with adequate time set aside for that public scrutiny. I think that by something like the middle of next year it could be presented again to this House in a more acceptable form. It is all very well for the Government to say that it is prepared to listen to suggestions after the Bill has been passed, but it is too late to do so after the Bill has been passed. The Government will give no guarantee that any further amendments will be made. The Government would be too concerned about implementing the proposals contained in the Bill. I believe that the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon),  who is a member of the other place, accepts that adequate time should be set aside for public scrutiny and public debate, but he is being forced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to agree to this Bill being raced through both Houses of the Parliament so that a double dissolution situation can be set up for use, if that suits the Prime Minister, at a later time. 
Adequate consideration is not being given to the importance of this legislation. Although this Bill is unacceptable at the present time, it may not be unacceptable in the future if the Government allows adequate public debate, public 
Questioning and public scrutiny to take place, toe should look a little more at whether adequate time has been set aside. The situation in New Zealand, which is the country from which  Mr Justice  Woodhouse came and in which he acquire  i  his knowledge of this subject, provides a very good example.  Mr Justice  Woodhouse headed a royal commission into compensation in that country in 1967. A parliamentary inquiry was then conducted after the royal commission had reported. The New Zealand scheme commenced in April this year, 7 years after the proposition was first mooted. If one reads the New 
Zealand papers one will see that problems are still being experienced with the implementation of the scheme after 7 years. 
Let us look at the time schedule in Australia's case.  Mr Justice  Woodhouse was appointed to conduct the inquiry in Australia in about April 1973. The first stage of this proposal is to commence in July 1976, which means that we have allowed about half the time that was allowed in New Zealand for debate on and scrutiny of this proposition and legislation. There are more complications involved in this country than in New Zealand. For a start we have a federal system with all the complications that it will cause in respect to this legislation. Secondly, we have a more developed state and private system of third party and workers compensation insurance. We also have had no indication of what the Government's true intentions are with respect to insurance. Does the Government- I understand it does- intend to press ahead with its Australian Government insurance office and move into general insurance and life assurance in a way in which I believe it is actually happening in New Zealand so that instead of this proposition being a social justice measure it is a blind for a general take-over of the insurance industry in total? I think that the Government should be a little more open with its intentions in this regard. 
Let us look at the time that members of this House have had to examine this proposition. The first volume of the Woodhouse Committee's report was presented on 10 July, the second volume was presented on 22 September and the third volume, which is a statistical document, was presented on 17 October. It is now 24 October. What chance have members on both sides of both Houses of the Parliament let alone people outside the Parliament had to study this proposition adequately? On Monday night I was at an Australian Insurance Association dinner at which the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  was the guest  speaker.  As of Monday night most of the people there- leading people in the Australian insurance industry- had not been able to obtain a copy of the third volume of the Woodhouse Committee's report, which is most important from their point of view, to see how accurate were the figures presented by  Mr Justice  Woodhouse. 
Let us look at the cost involved. It has been said that this scheme will cost $ 1,655m once a plateau has been reached.  Mr Justice  Woodhouse has suggested a 10c a gallon levy on petrol to replace the third party component and a 2 per cent levy on the wages bills of employers and a 2 per cent levy on incomes of the selfemployed. In his second reading speech the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  said, in reference to raising the necessary amount to cover the expenditure involved: 
The Government has considered this matter and, while it sees merit in the recommendations of the Committee, it has not committed itself to this or any other method of financing. The Treasurer, the Honourable Frank Crean, is investigating the options available to the Government and will bring forward proposals for later consideration. 
That is not good enough. The Parliament has no idea how money will be raised to finance one of the most expensive and most important pieces of legislation to hit the Parliament in years. The first year cost of the injury and congenital disability phase has been estimated in the second reading speech at $300m. I ask the Minister: When was that estimate made? Was it based on the Woodhouse Committee's recommendations or on the movement away from the Woodhouse Committee's recommendations to accept cover for injury right at the beginning rather than to have a delay of 7 days? If it is not based on providing a cover from when the injury happens but allows for a delay of 7 days, the Government will be out in its reckoning because according to the insurance industry two-thirds of the cost of all claims occur in the first 7 days or less after an injury. I would be interested to hear what the situation is. One has only to look at the 46 amendments, when one has time to do so, to see that they will also result in major alterations being made to the cost. I accept that the Government has not had time to cost these alterations, but that only adds to my argument that the Parliament should not be expected to vote on this measure until there has been sufficient time to ascertain what the cost will be and how the Government will raise the money to meet it. 
There is an interesting contradiction here with the health scheme in that all the medical and hospital costs incurred in relation to compensation are loaded on to the health scheme. But if one looks at the recommendations concerning the financing of the health scheme, one will see that quite an amount of the financing of the health scheme is loaded on to workers compensation and third party insurance, which are being abolished by this proposal. The Government cannot have it both ways. It cannot isolate one from the other because they all have to be taken into consideration in the total budgetary concept. By adding all the costs- the $ 1,600m or more for compensation, the $ 1,500m for the health scheme and the $ 1,000m for complete abolition of the means test- and nothing else, one will come up with 25 per cent of the present total 
Commonwealth Budget. The Government cannot say that that will be picked up as its taxing ability increases with inflation because it is already committed to increased Government expenditure at the same rate. Also it is not allowing for the increased cost later because the cost of providing the type of service that these schemes envisage expands at a faster rate than inflation. 
How are all of these things to be financed? That is one of the things that the Government has to say. Let us look at the proposed petrol tax. It would be a gross inequity if a levy of 10c a gallon were to be imposed on petrol. I hope and believe that the Government has accepted this point. It would be better to calculate the charge on a 'per driver' or a 'per car' basis than to impose a levy on each gallon of petrol purchased. Consideration must be given to those people who, in the course of their jobs, use their vehicles a great deal and so consume a lot of petrol. People in isolated areas are in the same position. The cost to the community generally is another factor to be considered. 
Another aspect is the third party insurance schemes operated by the States. This proposal eliminates such schemes, but there is nothing to stop any of the States from moving in to levy some sort of charge- they can call it anything they like- on motorists, to replace third party insurance. Motorists would then be required to pay twice for third party insurance. Many major question marks arise in respect of this legislation. These add to the reasons why the Bill should be withdrawn and redrafted. 
I turn to the no fault concept by which people will have no right of legal redress. I accept that this scheme will provide immediate and, in many cases, less expensive cover. I would like to see allowance made for public argument on this question of incidents where gross or criminal negligence is involved. Will people accept that no cost will be imposed on them in a financial sense as distinct from a criminal sense, and what this will mean to their sense of responsibility as ordinary citizens? If in public debate the argument between no fault as against legal redress is satisfactorily resolved and the verdict comes down on the side of the no fault concept, I would be prepared to look at this proposal again and possibly to accept it. The point I make is that there has to be a chance for public debate to occur on this question. Time should be allowed for that purpose. 
The next matter that I raise concerns the States again. They already have third party responsibility. They have their own insurance offices. 
What will happen to those offices? What has the Government done in consultation with the States to arrange uniform no fault third party workers compensation with the scheme administered by the States which already have the expertise and, if honourable members like, the bureaucracy in this area? Thus unnecessary duplication could be avoided if the Commonwealth moves in on an extended sickness benefits basis. If this proposal put forward by the Government is subjected to public scrutiny and is found to be wanting, well and good. One must accept the facts. But the facts have not been presented on this legislation because the opportunity has not been provided for them to be ascertained. 
What will be the position of the private insurance companies? As my colleague from Hawker pointed out,  Mr Justice  Woodhouse made no mention of them. I point out that 40 per cent of the business written by private insurance companies is workers compensation business. The Australian-owned section does over 70 per cent of this business. The effect of this Bill will be actually to help the multi-national insurance companies at the expense of the Australianowned insurance companies. We are told that 4,000 or 5,000 people will lose their jobs in the insurance industry. No reference is made to how the Government will provide phasing out arrangements. As the honourable member for Hawker mentioned, there are weaknesses in relation to the proposals dealing with the insurance industry. 
A further question in this respect concerns the protection that will be given to the existing rights of policy holders. Will those policies continue? What will be the cost involved once the Government has introduced its scheme? If a period of 6 months is allowed for these questions to be answered, hopefully we will have the added advantage at that time of a properly considered debate of these matters. 
I mention next the trade unions. As proposed by this legislation the maximum that a worker will receive as compensation of his earnings is 85 per cent. But in many cases unionists at present receive 100 per cent of their earnings in compensation payments. I have here a letter sent to  Mr Souter,  the Secretary of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, by  Mr Reynolds  of the Labor Council of New South Wales.  Mr Reynolds  goes into some detail. I will be fair to him and quote one of the good aspects in the legislation that he points out. He says: 
Let me say at the outset that the proposals in the report concerned with accident prevention and rehabilitation are, in the main, satisfactory, and generally reflect acceptance of our policy statements on both subjects. 
He continues: 
The remainder of the report and draft Bill, however, which deals with monetary benefits and other entitlements, amounts to virtual rejection of the ACTU's policy as framed in our written submission. 
I ask for leave to incorporate this letter in Hansard. 
I thank the House. What will be the position of people under 18 years of age? Until they reach that age, they will receive no compensation at all for any injury suffered. I mention also ordinary people who at present receive sickness benefits after a delay of 7 days. Under this legislation they will receive no sickness benefit until 21 days have elapsed. I ask the House to consider the position of self-employed people. The Special Minister of State, who is at the table, in private conversation discussed with me protection for self-employed people to provide cover for temporary partial incapacity and the problems involved in the mechanism for working out the previous year's income bearing in mind the fluctuations that all self-employed business people suffer, whether they are in the tourist industry, farmers, or ordinary business people. The Minister has informed me that this aspect is now covered. If he can spell it out in closing the second reading debate, that will be a help. The next point that I raise is that compensation is related to earnings for permanent partial incapacity. With respect to temporary partial incapacity, there is no relation to the actual loss suffered on an individual basis. There is an arbitrary percentage figure taken from an American table of percentages, on a basis of 85 per cent of average weekly earnings, which provides nothing below 10 per cent whereas formerly it was nothing below 15 per cent. No allowance is made for individual cases. I instance the star footballer, the ballet dancer who loses his or her big toe, the pianist who loses part of his finger or the surgeon who loses part of a finger - 
Or the humble farmer who has a bad back. The point that I make is that no allowance is made for these individual cases. These,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  are my reasons for believing and saying that this BUI should be withdrawn and redrafted and presented to Parliament again only after adequate public scrutiny. In the course of such public scrutiny, the legislation should be considered by the trade union movement, insurance companies, members of the legal profession, the States and the other multitude of groups which have been in contact with us in the last few days including the Women's Electoral Lobby, the Guide Dogs for the Blind organisation and medical associations. In that time the Government should come forward with some accurate costing of its scheme and show how it will raise the necessary finance. If this happens, we will have a situation more approaching that in New Zealand where in more simple circumstances twice the time that has been allowed here was provided and more opportunity for consideration was given before the New Zealand legislation was implemented. In the course of this public scrutiny, I believe that an awareness would be created in the mind of the general public of the provisions of this legislation and that this would allow for the development of a considered public opinion of what this Bill means to everybody in Australia. Then and only then can a purposeful debate take place in this Parliament, a debate befitting the importance of this legislation, and a satisfactory conclusion reached. 
-To restrict to less than 2 hours a debate on the proposed expenditure for the several departments now under discussion, which together constitute probably the major area of expenditure for the Australian Government, appears to me to be a rather strange procedure. It is also strange because this is the area which the Government claims is showing the greatest development, the greatest improvement and it is the area in which it has the greatest pride. In the few minutes allowed to me in this debate I want to refer to some aspects of the Department of Health. 
The creation of the Hospital and Health Services Commission has no doubt been a major innovation of the Government in the health field. It heralds a more activist role in health delivery and I believe it will add to the overall knowledge of the hospital and health system in Australia with the information it will provide and the research that it is encouraging because such activity will be done on a national scale. But how the Commission operates will be critical from the point of view of the States in showing whether Canberra is once again trying to dominate everything from the centre or whether it really will be a Federal-State co-operative body. The direction the Commission takes may not necessarily be the direction it would want to take but may be a direction of the Government. I believe it will decide, with this Government, that it is forced to adopt a more centralist posture than it otherwise would. The States fear a centralist health department and health delivery system through the Commission. I believe they have some justification for this fear. On a number of occasions this fear or uncertainty has forced them to overreact to some of the proposals that have come from Canberra with the very tightly tied grants in some cases and, in particular, with the row that is now developing over Federal Government hospitals. 
The Commission's report on hospitals is, I believe, a federalist document of co-operation between State and Federal authorities on the planning and construction of hospitals around Australia. I believe that the implementation of this report has been bungled by the Government. I am not blaming the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  for this. But there are 2 points on which the States could have been reassured and could have been kept on side more than they have. Firstly, I refer to the obtaining of copies of the report on hospitals. This is a report that was first tabled in the Parliament on 10 April. A second or updated edition came out some time ago. In talking to some of the State health people I found that they claim that in some cases they do not have the updated edition and in other cases they have only one copy for their whole department. This is the most important document ever to be published on hospitals in Australia. I would hope that there would be Federal and State cooperation. There is not even a sufficient number of" copies of this document to allow adequate public scrutiny. One talks to hospital administrators but they say they have no copies of this booklet either. For a document that is so farreaching in its implications of financing these important proposals, involving a total expenditure of over $l,100m over a 5-year period if the proposal is implemented in full, I believe there has not been adequate time for public scrutiny and debate. Too often the Government just accepts blindly a report involving huge amounts of money and proceeds without any reference to or adequate public scrutiny within the Parliament or by interested experts outside. 
I believe in respect of some of these very expensive but also good proposals that the Government's own Priorities Review Staff should look at some of them to ascertain where this huge amount of money- the total of which for compensation, social security and health in respect of the new proposals amounts to 25 per cent of the Australian Government Budget- fits in with the Government's ability to pay and its priorities. I believe that the major bungle has been made possibly by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  himself because he has committed himself to this rash program of building Australian Government hospitals within the States, which is completely contrary to the recommendations in the Commission's report and which will endanger a successful co-operative attitude or working relationship between the Federal Department of Health and the State Departments of Health in this area and possibly in other areas as well. It just adds once more to the States' suspicion of what are the Federal attitudes. One of the key points of the report on hospitals is the question of joint hospitals works councils. Once again, some of the States are suspicious that these will be used as an instrument of Canberra domination. I hope that in practice this will not prove to be so and that they will be genuine Federal-State cooperative and advisory councils with decisions being made by the respective Ministers in co-operation rather than in confrontation. 
On the question of the Australian Government wanting to build hospitals in Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane, I think the Prime Minister's desire to score political points and to be ready for another election is overriding the practical problems of moving ahead with hospital construction. It is all very well for somebody to say that in one year $4m was provided for a hospital but it was not built. Anybody with any knowledge of the architectural and planning work that is required before money in large amounts can actually be spent on the construction of the hospitals is aware that you do not just turn on a tap and spend money when it is provided on a short term basis. 
It has not been said here that in respect of the Westmead hospital there will be an opening ceremony for the start of construction next month or that some of the delay in planning rests with the Sydney University which for a time had the responsibility of some of the planning because the proposed hospital is to be used as a teaching hospital. In regard to the position in Sunshine, one should also investigate the attitude and work of the Federal Attorney-General 's Department in relation to the transferability of Government land in that area. But what is the Government going to do with its double headed cobra involving hospitals in the 3 States that have been mentioned? The States have said they are not going to back down. The Australian Government appears to be saying that it is going to go ahead. Are we going to have 2 hospitals, a State monument and a Federal monument, constructed side by side in the same suburbs at huge cost with a surplus of beds and with the consequent problems which will be created in respect of staffing? As it is wards in some hospitals in our major cities cannot be serviced because of a shortage of nurses or other medical staff. From where is the staff to be obtained for these new Federal monuments? It is no use saying that they are already trained because they are not and if anything there is a shortage. It is no good saying that they will be trained in time because it is obvious that they will not. If the Federal Government goes ahead and builds and through liberal inducements captures some of this medical staff from other sources to staff its hospitals, what about the hospitals in other areas which are as much in need and which will then have a greater shortage of medical staff than they have now? 
My final point relates to the question of drugs and the other veiled plans of the Government. It is time that the Government came clean on what it intends to do in regard to drug manufacture in this country. Has it dropped its idea of buying out an existing drug company and does it intend to expand the activities of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories? If it intends to expand the CSL will this organisation be able to carry on a commercially viable operation? I believe that the CSL fulfils an important function and should not be expected to make profit because of the work it is required to do. But if it is to be made commercially viable I believe that a tighter noose could be put around its neck than is around it at present. If the Government is keen to require overseas companies to cut drug prices, what will it do if the report of the Industries Assistance Commission recommends a cut in the tariff on penicillin, which is far higher in Australia than any other country? This drug is the mainstay of the CSL and ensures a stable income. Such a recommendation would present the Government with a problem if it wants to reduce the price of drugs to their lowest level. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Was the request by State Health Ministers for tax deductability of ambulance charges and subscriptions refused by the Government; if so, why. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Are all the ports in Australia visited by overseas shipping now provided with an approved incinerator. 
If not, which ones are without an incinerator, and what plans are there to service these ports. 
What checks are made by his Department to ensure that all ships' garbage is satisfactorily disposed of in these incinerators. 
Has New South Wales received any grants for incinerator construction; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How many requests by nursing homes for increased fees were outstanding in each State on the last day of May, June, July and August 1974. 
I address my question to the Minister for Health. Are representatives of the Hospital and Health Services Commission and the Australian Council of Trade Unions negotiating with the management of the Chevron Hotel in Melbourne for the purchase of that hotel as a trade union centre and a Commonwealth health centre? Is the Minister aware that the 
Alfred Hospital is also negotiating for this site which is valued at between $3m and $4m? Will the Minister assure the House that the Hospital and Health Services Commission will not interfere with the Alfred Hospital negotiations by offering an exorbitant price and will he guarantee that if the hotel is purchased by the Commonwealth it will not be a vehicle for transferring several million dollars to the ACTU? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the continued lavish advertising of Oak Insurance Ltd, including a double page spread on Monday, 23 September 1974, in the Melbourne Sun. 
If so, will his Department investigate the claims in the advertisements, including a judgment on whether the advertisements are misleading. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Nursing Mothers' Association of Australia applied for a community health program grant to assist with administration costs. 
If so, has the request been approved. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) How will the $6.5 million proposed in the Budget for tuberculosis and brucellosis eradication in cattle be allocated between the two diseases in the various States. 
What States or parts of States have been declared tuberculosis free areas. 
What percentage of tuberculosis reactors to total cattle tested was there for each State for 1 973-74 or 1 973. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
Will the Minister explain the escalation in estimated receipts from the Meat Export Charge to $28.7m for 1 974-75 from actual receipts of $6.6m in 1973-74 as printed on page 89 of the Treasurer's Budget Speech. 
If this higher figure was based on a continuation of high meat exports, what would be a more accurate figure now. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What members of the Australian National Advisory Committee for International Women's Year belong to (a) the Country Women's Association and (b) church women's organisations. 
-This is a cognate debate on 3 companion pieces of legislation: the Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Bill 1974; the United States Naval Communications (Civil Employees) Act; and the Seamen's Compensation Bill 1974. All of these concern worker compensation payments. The joint Opposition does not oppose the legislation. The Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Bill is the major piece of legislation as it affects all Commonwealth Government and statutory authority employees- approximately half a million people. In 1971 the previous Liberal-Country Party Government introduced the basis of the present legislation and updated it in November 1972. The Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party are proud of this legislation which they introduced because at that time it was a pioneering piece of legislation. The present Bill updates the levels of workers compensation payments in line with inflation. This is both necessary and, perhaps, even overdue. The Act already provides for compensation equal to the normal full sick pay rate for the first 26 weeks of incapacity. For long term cases beyond this a fixed weekly rate is specified in the Act. This is to be amended and updated from $43 a week to $57 a week, from $ 1 1 a week to $ 1 5 a week for a dependent spouse and from $5 to $7 a week for dependent children. This is slightly ahead of present sickness benefit payments. Lump sum payments for death have been increased from $14,500 to $20,000 and, among other increases, funeral benefits are up from $300 to $450. The Seamen's Compensation Bill makes similar provisions, with the basic exception that the private employer rather than the Commonwealth Government provides the compensation. 
In 1973 the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  introduced amendments to the Liberal-Country Party Government's Act of November 1972, and if those amendments had been carried by the Senate they would have been both far reaching and expensive and would have added to the pace setter role of the Commonwealth Public Service, which at that time was Government policy. The Minister had earlier moved similar amendments in the 1972 debate when he was in opposition. These proposals in the 1973 attempted legislation would have provided several major variations from the existing legislation. They included full wages beyond the 26 weeks period with no limit, disease included as injury, and the lump sum payment to the widow on death of the breadwinner would have been replaced with a continuing weekly wage. It is interesting to note that none of these amendments which the Government considered so essential in 1973 has been attempted again in this legislation, although the Senate today has a different composition than it had prior to the double dissolution when these amendments were attempted. 
Why is this so? Why has the Government not attempted to repeat these amendments? Does it mean that the Government's principles are like its economic policy- more changeable than the weather and just as unpredictable? Does it mean that what in 1972 when the Government was in opposition and in 1973 in an attempted variation of the legislation was important Labor Party policy, was socially just and desirable, is not necessary today? Does it mean that the Senate really is not obstructionist, as the Government would have us believe and which it tells everyone? Does it mean that the Senate, in referring this attempted 1973 legislation, this pace setter legislation, to one of its committees was performing a nationally useful function in screening what the Government must be admitting now, because it is not attempting to reintroduce these amendments, was hasty legislation? The fact that the Government is not attempting to reintroduce them means that the Senate was right and the Government was wrong. The Government argues that since then the national compensation scheme legislation has been introduced. It has been introduced but not passed, and the Woodhouse proposals for national compensation actually reinforce or strengthen the point that what the Senate did at that time in rejecting the attempted 1973 legislation was right and sound. The proposals in the Woodhouse report are less generous than the Government's lapsed Bill of 1973, and this supports the attitude of the Opposition that what the Government was attempting to do at that time was dangerous for die future of this country. 
In using the Commonwealth Public Service as a pace setter in employment and conditions, of which the 1973 attempt was an outstanding example, the Government is now reaping a bitter harvest for itself, a bitter harvest which one sees in the Prime Minister's reversal earlier tonight, for the third time in less than 4 months, of economic pokey. Tonight the Prime Minister has attempted to rekindle business confidence, private investment and a future for the private sector in this country. I say 'attempted' because there is no guarantee that this will actually occur. The Prime Minister is attempting to do this after 2 years of the most hostile anti-private enterprise, anti-individual initiative government that this country has ever seen. There is a story doing the rounds in various places at the moment suggesting that when the last businessman leaves Australia he turns the light out, and I think the light may have already failed. 
Just think of the consequences this country would now be facing in private employment over the Christmas period if the 1973 compensation legislation had been carried, because the flow-on effect to private employment, to private industry, would be now being felt, just as some of the other Government measures will now be felt by private industry in the Christmas holiday period. This Christmas, private industry in Australia will be facing its worst period since the early 1930s, and private industry is still the major employer in this country. One can even refer to the Prime Minister's speech tonight as proof of this. At the present time demand is down and wages are up and continuing upwards. On top of this there is a credit squeeze, and this credit squeeze is compounded by the quarterly tax payments that the Government is requiring of companies and by the flow-on of 4 weeks annual leave and the  11 Vi  per cent holiday pay loading. The combined effect of aU of these things on the liquidity of many private companies, particularly smaller companies, will be disastrous. Many small companies will close down for Christmas and the holiday period this year and will not reopen because of the combined effects exhausting their credit resources. Eighty thousand small business in this country are at risk at the present time and the proud heritage of the self-reliant and individualistic Australian, which is preserved more in these self-employed business people than in any other sector of the Australian community, is being destroyed by the Government and some of its hasty and now considered even by itself ill-judged pace setter legislation. Nothing the Prime Minister can do will act quickly enough or to the required extent to save many of these people in private enterprise in the critical few months ahead.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  the Opposition supports the legislation. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Is the welfare of pensioners primarily a Commonwealth responsibilty 
If so, did he agree to the State Health Ministers' request for an increase in the Australian Government pensioner bed day benefit from $5 per day to $30 per day; if not, why not. 
3 ) Is it a fact that when the benefit was fixed in 1 966-67 it represented one third of the total bed cost compared with one tenth today. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that a major cause of the delayed payment of pharmaceutical benefits claims by chemists is the large number of prescriptions for the oral contraceptive since it became eligible for benefit. 
) Has he considered allowing a six months ' supply of the pill per script, as was the case prior to its inclusion on the benefit list, instead of the present restriction of two months. 
Would this proposal be cheaper both for the consumer and the Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Has the Postmaster-General's Department investigated the comparative cost and speed of work of private contractor cable layers and Departmental teams for simple cable conversions of rural telephone exchanges; if so, what are the results. 
Is the Department increasing the use of private contractors for cable laying. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Will the Australian Government's responsibility for payments to deserted wives, previously shared on a 50/50 basis with the States under the States Grants (Deserted Wives) Act 1968, become effective on 1 July 1975 or at a date to be announced after the next Budget. 
Will the Government require any waiting period for payment of the benefit after it assumes responsibility. 
Will the benefits be at the same level as those paid to recipients after the present 6 month period. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What non-official post offices are scheduled to be closed or investigated for possible closure in 1 974-75. 
Which ones were closed in 1972-73 and 1973-74. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) What voluntary organisations have requested financial assistance from his Department for the establishment or maintenance of a federal headquarters. 
What has been the response to the requests. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
1 ) What voluntary organisations have requested financial assistance from the Postmaster-General's Department for the establishment or maintenance of a federal headquarters. 
What has been the response to the requests. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
How many (a) successful and (b) unsuccessful applications for migration to Australia from Indian residents of Uganda have been processed by his Department in each of the last three years and in 1 974 to 1 July. 
How many of these applications were processed in 
Uganda or a neighbouring African country and 
the United Kingdom or other non-African country. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) Have any Soviet Jews who have left Israel applied for permission to migrate to Australia. 
If so, has any priority been given to processing their applications. . (3) If not, can he say whether several hundred of them are now in a number of West European countries and are classed as stateless. 
I commend the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  for his sensible package of amendments to the 3 Bills. It rather contrasts with the hard line approach he adopted in this area in earlier months. Perhaps the reality of inflation and the need for a private sector have caught up with him. In fact I should commend the Minister for being ahead of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in realising that we need a private sector, in this case the voluntary and religious bodies. Reading the speeches and the Press releases connected with this present package is quite a joy after reading the earlier doctrinaire ones at the beginning of this year. There is still one shadow, though, remaining in this area. Perhaps there are more than one, but there is this particular one. It is the fear that the tax deductibility of donations to voluntary organisations will be removed. The Minister has complained about the drop in contributions compared with the total cost of homes and hostels for the elderly. Perhaps this is something he should remember when he or the Government is thinking about this matter. 
While congratulating the Minister for Social Security, I also congratulate the former Minister for Social Services, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  and the LiberalCountry Party government of which he was a part, because most of the provisions we are considering tonight are updating now-ons from the 1972 package introduced by the honourable member for Mackellar. He encouraged an extended range of accommodation and assistance for the frail aged, including a nursing home benefit, a hostel and personel care subsidy and a domiciliary care scheme. 
The honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  in his usual thoughtful way tonight drew attention to the arbitrary age restrictions that still apply to some of the provisions. I would agree particularly with what he said about the domiciliary care benefits scheme. If it is advantageous and cheaper to help people in their own homes rather than put them in some institution this is to be encouraged. Perhaps we should change the criterion for entitlement to benefit under the scheme from age to the degree of nursing required. Several hospitals in my area have also suggested that another restriction on the domiciliary care scheme is that a registered nurse has to be used on all occasions. They have put forward a proposal that perhaps a ratio of registered nurses to nursing aides or people who can provide quite adequately some of the domestic services that are required with this scheme should be allowed. I ask the Minister to bear this in mind when looking at a possible extension to the domiciliary care benefit arrangements. 
The maximum subsidy limits were increased on 1 October for aged persons homes and will be increased again on royal assent. The problem of inflation in building costs was dealt with very well by my friend, the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson).  Equally important- I do not think mention has been made of this in the debate so far- is the problem of upper cost limits. Unless the upper cost limits are also increased in line with inflation this whole package is completely phoney, because on many occasions the upper cost limit has been just as restrictive as the maximum subsidy limit. Earlier tonight the Minister assured me that the upper cost limits will be increased in a generous way. Perhaps I am saying something more than should be said, but I recommend that they be increased more than proportionately to other increases because this is one of the restricting factors. 
I ask the Minister to assure the House tonight that the upper costs limits be increased proportionately at least in line with inflation. For example, the subsidy under the aged persons homes scheme for a double unit has increased from $7,000 as at 1 April to $10,920 as from the royal assent. This is an increase of over 60 per cent in the maximum subsidy unit. If one accepts that the upper cost limit should rise slightly more than in this proportion, then the $10,500 upper cost limit for a low rise building should rise to at least $17,000 and for a high rise building to at least $19,000. Once again I ask the Minister to refer to this problem of upper cost limits. Really what is needed with both the maximum subsidy limit and the upper cost limit is some form of rise and fall index which will move both of these things in line with the inflation in building costs to overcome some of the periodic trauma that voluntary organisations have when inflation in building costs has outstripped the alterations that are made from time to time in these limits. 
I now refer to another of the many commendable aspects of the legislation. The Aged Persons Homes Bill is to allow for a rise and fall on contracts made since 1 April 1974. 1 ask the Minister 2 questions. Will this allowance continue after the royal assent with the new arrangements? 
I thank the Minister. Will it override upper cost and maximum subsidy limits? If it is to be a genuine rise and fall provision I think it should. Perhaps when the Minister replies he will clarify the point. I think there are 2 important points connected with this rise and fall situation. As other speakers have mentioned there is a problem with the cost of building in country areas. Building costs in the country are higher than elsewhere. Any architect or builder will tell you this. Until the 1 April arrangement came into being this problem was partly compensated for by the fact that there was a fixed land segment in the total subsidy. If I am right, since 1 April there has been a variable land subsidy segment which has acted against country organisations and has made worse the problem of higher building costs in the country. I ask the Minister to rectify this situation and to acknowledge as quickly as possible the problem of higher building costs in the country. 
The Aged Persons Hostels Bill updates the maximum subsidy and amends the Act to allow alteration by regulation, which I believe is a sensible amendment. The most important amendment relates to the transferability of bed entitlements. This has been in the pipeline for a long time. The former Minister for Social Services foreshadowed it when he was still the Minister. I once again commend the present Minister for introducing it in this Bill. I certainly have been a pusher of it and to a certain extent a selfish pusher because the Miller homes organisation, a very large home organisation in Victoria, has a large bed entitlement for hostels, which it cannot use, and it is hoped that in the Murray electorate alone this legislation will put about $750,000 into hostel accommodation. 
I turn now to the delivered meals subsidy. I offer my congratulations along with that of previous speakers to all those volunteers connected with the Meals on Wheels service. I agree with the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow)  about some of the pressures that have developed in this respect. There is the problem of the volunteer capacity to deliver the meals to homes and there is the problem of kitchen capacity. The honourable member mentioned some of the problems and made some suggestions in relation to kitchen capacity, and I will not add to those comments. I support the legislation. 
I wish to speak briefly to the amendment,  Mr Chairman.  Will the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  assure the Committee, if he is not prepared to accept the amendment, that if the Australian Labor Party is still in office and if any cases are still outstanding at the end of this 3-year period, the period will be extended to cover them? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
) How many (a) films and (b) television programs have been censored in any way because of sex or violence since 2 December 1972. 
How many minutes have been deleted in each category on the grounds of (a) sex and (b) violence. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How much animal semen has been imported from those countries free to export to Australia in each of the years since the ban was lifted. 
How much semen has been imported from each breed in those countries. 
How much semen has been directed to each of the companies approved to receive this semen from Customs. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What contingency plans have been prepared to combat an outbreak of the following diseases in Australia: (a) foot and mouth disease, (b) rabies, (c) blue tongue and (d) Newcastle disease. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What co-operation and co-ordination exists between his Department and the Department of Science on food testing generally and mercury levels in fish in particular. 
What co-operation or co-ordination exists between his Department and State Departments of Health in this area. 
Is there unnecessary duplication between his Department and these other Departments in food testing. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1 ) What voluntary organisations have requested financial assistance from the Department of the Media for the establishment or maintenance of a federal headquarters. 
) What has been the response to the requests. 
asked the Minister for Northern Development, upon notice: 
1 ) What voluntary organisations have requested financial assistance from his Department for the establishment or maintenance of a federal headquarters. 
) What has been the response to the requests. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What voluntary organisations have requested financial assistance from his Department for the establishment or maintenance of a federal headquarters. 
) What has been the response to the requests. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Was he able to announce at his press conference immediately after question time on Tuesday 22 October 1974 that the Premiers of New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland had not accepted his hospital proposal. 
Was he unable to provide this information in reply to a question I had asked earlier that day; if so, why. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
1 ) What voluntary organisations have requested financial assistance from the Department of Customs and Excise for the establishment or maintenance of a federal headquarters. 
What has been the response to the requests. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
1) What voluntary organisations have requested financial assistance from his Department for the establishment or maintenance of a federal headquarters. 
What has been the response to the requests. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) What voluntary organisations have requested financial assistance from his Department for the establishment or maintenance of a federal headquarters. 
What has been the response to the requests. 
-I think the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  rather protested too much and in doing so he gave certain things away. I presume his remark that the people did not get the government that they voted for at the last election did not refer to the House of Representatives although one could perhaps carry on in this vein and say that perhaps the people of Australia did not deserve the government that they got at the last election. In his protesting too much I think the honourable member reveals why the Government is pressing this Bill through with indecent haste- that is, that the system, as the honourable member for Port Adelaide pointed out, works against certain Labor electorates with the percentage of informal votes, and what is being dressed up in the cause of a very democratic and just procedure is really something that Labor wants to alter in some ways because it can see some advantage to itself in these alterations. If this Parliament is to correct anomalies that exist in the present electoral laws, it will not do it in this manner. Many of the 34 amendments proposed by this Bill are good, but the way the Government is proceeding is not the way to achieve desirable results. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide thought it was an absurdity to wait for a postal vote registered by Australians in France, Britain or somewhere else to proceed in Australia before the result of an election could be determined. I thought that the right to vote was one of the democratic rights of every Australian. Under our system people are compelled to vote, therefore they have a right to record a vote. I believe every democratic Australian should insist on his right to record a vote irrespective of what country he is in. One does not have to go outside Australia to find postal problems. They arise here from time to time. I understand that even in the recent election in Australia there were problems with batches of postal ballot papers posted inside 
Australia reaching their destination in time to be counted. 
I think one interesting remark in the second reading speech of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  has to be repeated. He said: 
Australians can be justly proud of their electoral machinery. We have not suffered the electoral malpractices common in many other countries. 
Those words make rather strange reading. After all the diatribe from the Minister from time to time both inside and outside this House on what he alleges are weaknesses, malpractices and undemocratic principles in our voting and electoral system, he is now saying: 'After all, Australia is far better off than other countries'. Perhaps we should rename him the Minister for Changing Colours. 
There are 34 amendments in this Bill and, as I have said, many of them are very good ones. One interesting exclusion from these 34 amendments is any proposal to drop compulsory voting. One reads about the Labour Party in Britain and Parties in some other countries saying that compulsory voting is not democratic. One would have thought that the Minister would have included the matter of compulsory voting in his list, or is the real reason for its exclusion the fact that the dropping of compulsory voting would work against the Labor Party? 
-That may be the policy of the Australian Labor Party. It is probably the Party's policy because it can see advantage in it. The point I am making is that the Government has proposed many amendments but it has not included an amendment to embody in the legislation what is in the policy of the Labor Parties in other countries, that is the elimination of compulsory voting. The Minister says that optional preferential voting, or first-past-the-post voting, which it really is, is an advantage. Reference is often made by the Government to the voting systems in Britain, the United States of America and other countries. I would have thought that from the Government's point of view it would have been to its interest to have included in our electoral laws some features of those systems other than those proposed in the Bill. I think the reason for their exclusion and the Government's wish to race this Bill through the House in the guise of electoral justice is really electoral advantage. If the Government is serious about having the good sections of the 34 amendments accepted by both Houses of this Parliament, it should adopt the procedure suggested by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  He said that an allParty committee of both Houses of the Parlia-ment should investigate the matter of. electoral reform and report back to the Parliament early in the autumn session in plenty of time before any election. This would allow adequate time for all Parties to consider what is acceptable to all sections of the House so that meaningful reform can be introduced in this important area. 
This Bill has to be through the House of Representatives by 9.30 tonight. There are many changes to consider, together with the long second reading speech of the Minister. I am told one of the clauses in the Bill contains 2,600 words. I think that the Government's action in rushing the Bill through reveals a lack of sincerity on its part. It has not provided adequate opportunity for proper consideration of this complex and important legislation which was introduced only on 13 November. There is also a lack of opportunity for adequate discussion and investigation into what some of these amendments will mean in practice so that genuine electoral amendments can be made. We are told in the second reading speech that the purpose of the Bill is to simplify voting and accelerate results. 
National elections are of tremendous importance to all Australians and one should not in the name of over-simplification create weaknesses and anomalies. For example, optional preferenTtial voting is first past the post voting and that is all. If people are given the option they will opt for the simplest and easiest manner and of course that is why the Government has introduced it. That is fair enough from its point of view but it should not dress it up in high sounding words. Optional preferential voting is less democratic for 2 very good reasons. First, it will reduce the real choice of the people by the range of parties which they are able to vote for at an election. One should look, from a Labor Party point of view, at what this could mean to its friends or supporters on a preferential basis- at what would be the attitude of the Australia Party to this proposal? If it is introduced, it will reduce the choice of Australians in respect of parties such as the Australia Party. 
It is less democratic for a second very good reason. Rarely in a multiple party system does the final vote on first past the post voting bring with it a majority of votes for the party which is elected to government. How many times, particularly in recent years, has a British government been elected with more than 40 per cent of the primary vote? I suggest very rarely, if ever. If one looks at the votes for the Liberal Party in Britain where up to 20 per cent of the people have voted for that Party in recent elections, 20 per cent of the people of Britain are virtually disenfranchised because of first past the post voting. This means that the system is less democratic because there is very rarely, if ever, a 50 per cent vote for the government there. If one considers the present system in Australia where preferences are distributed, at the last elections the party that gained the greatest percentage of votes- it amounted to more than 50 per cent- is now in government. With first past the post voting and multiple parties the chance of having a government elected on the majority of votes is reduced dramatically. Britain is an example of this. 
Optional preferential voting is first past the post. Santa Clause did not come down in the last shower even if he was christened the Minister for Services and Property. Let us not dress up in high sounding phrases something that has been put in purely for electoral advantage. Any real chance of meaningful amendment to the Electoral Act disappears when that attitude is taken. If one wants to look seriously - 
It is not and everybody knows it. The Minister knows it better than anybody else. That is why the Government has made this proposal. People will opt for the easiest option, which is first past the post voting under that system. If the Government does not like the present system of voting, which is not preferential voting but really should be called the alternative voting system because one's alternative choice has the same voting capacity as the original choice, why does it not put forward some other system, such as a simple preferential system in which the second vote is worth half the first vote? If the Government wants the most democratic system I think the inverse preferential system is easily the most democratic. Under this system we add the numbers given to the votes for each candidate and the person with the lowest number is elected because he has the highest number of first or second preferences. Honourable members should not laugh at this suggestion because this is accepted by a large number of organisations as the most democratic system. All of them say it is far more democratic than first past the post voting, so let us not hear any nonsense about first past the post, disguised as optional preferential, voting being considered more democratic. 
The Government also introduced the argument concerning 73 candidates from New South Wales in the recent Senate elections. I agree that people should not be expected to vote Nos. 1 to 73. The amendments also provide for increased deposits, with which I completely agree. They are long overdue. I believe that increased deposits, on the scale suggested by the Minister, would overcome the problem of large numbers of Senate candidates. Many people are prepared to pay the low deposit. They nominate for nuisance reasons or for taxation purposes. The higher deposits, which are in line with inflation, possibly would reduce dramatically the number of candidates seeking election to the Senate. I believe that if higher deposits are required the chances of reducing the number of candidates are so great that the scheme should be tested at a Senate election before any other changes to the method of voting for the Senate are attempted. I believe that the introduction of higher deposits would overcome the problem which the Minister mentioned. 
He also mentioned the balloting for positions on the ballot paper. I must confess that I agree with that point also. Does he intend- I believe he does not- to have a circular voting paper? The best way to be completely democratic and to cut out any advantage which somebody might gain because of his name is to have a circular paper. That is something worthy of consideration also. All these matters point to the fact that there are many good points in the Bill, there are many doubtful points in the Bill and there are many points in the Bill which I believe Parliament has not had adequate time to consider. Therefore, if the Government is sincere in its desire to have electoral amendments on a genuine basis rather than for a Party political reason, it will defer a final vote on this legislation until the beginning of the autumn session so that there may be adequate time to consider all the implications of the BUI. The best way to do this, as the honourable member for Moreton suggested, is to set up an all-Party committee. That is the only positive way in which both Houses of this Parliament will agree to meaningful amendments to the present Act. 
I, too, welcome the Bills that are presently before the House. As every previous  speaker  has mentioned, the key point of this legislation concerns the extension of measurement of water resources to include quality as well as quantity. It is important also that it is intended to measure the quality of underground water as well as surface water. Although the States Grants (Water Resources Assessment) Bill relates to all States and all areas of Australia, if one is to understand the River Murray- most of the discussion tonight has centered on the Murray system- one has to have an understanding of the movement and the quality of underground water in the areas adjacent to the Murray. That is necessary if one is to unravel the quality system generally. I believe that it is important to do that because many insinuations are made from time to time about who is responsible for the water quality- whether it is the farmers, the tourists, the urban concentrations or, in many cases, subterranean inflows, such as those containing salinity, into certain parts of the Murray. When those matters are determined specific recommendations on how to deal with the individual problems can be made rather than just a blanket recommendation which may not cover the situation completely. 
I believe it is important that the Commonwealth Government should be careful not to be too domineering in dictating to the States a policy on modified land use and water quality control measures. I believe that we can make better progress by deciding what are the problems and them getting the States, through their responsible authorities, to implement the required management and legislative patterns. The Commonwealth then could come in as a co-ordinator, a co-operator and as the provider of finance. I support the remarks of the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  who made the point that the finance should be provided on a grants basis from the Government rather than on a loan basis, or that just the individual group should bear the cost. When one looks at many of the Commonwealth programs in the areas of urban concentrations one finds that many of the projects which the Commonwealth is funding are being funded on a grant basis. I think that policy should still apply. 
The honourable member for Gwydir mentioned also that this is a major agricultural area. 
When one looks along the irrigated areas of the Murray, the Murrumbidgee and the Murray Basin generally, I believe that his percentage figure was too low. There is the more important point that for all types of agricultural produce that are required by the large urban concentrations in Australia, this irrigated area is the only guarantor of a continued and reasonably cheap supply of these foods, whether they be vegetables and fruit for Sydney, Melbourne and elsewhere, or even milk products. More and more the city of Canberra is coming to depend upon the guaranteed supply of milk from these irrigated areas, as are Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide. 
One should not talk lightly about major modifications to land use there when one is considering the requirement of these large urban concentrations of a high standard of food on a guaranteed and reasonably cheap basis for people enjoying increasing standard of living. But with this assessment of quality, if we can discover the problems and move in concert with the States before it is too late to deal with salinity and general pollution problems, we will be able to do something about the position and stay ahead of some of the problems that have developed in other countries. 
When looking at the Murray one thinks also of the rivers in the south-western parts of the United States of America in which the pollution and salinity problems are far greater than anything we are facing at the moment. One has to remember also that the two record wet years we have had in the Murray area will, in the short term, increase the salinity problem because of the increase in the water table. I support the legislation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
When is it anticipated that the new Shepparton Post Office and Communications Centre will be completed. 
What variations in cost and time of completion are expected from the original estimates. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What sum has been made available to New South Wales and Queensland in the last 3 years to assist flood mitigation as distinct from flood restoration works in those States. 
) Do these States have any requests for such assistance before the Australian Government at the present time; if so, how much would these proposals cost the Australian Government if approved. 
Is there any agreed cost sharing formula for flood mitigation works with these or other States. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What arrangement has he made to speed up the payments of chemists' National Health Scheme claims. 
Is it anticipated that this arrangement will overcome the backlog of claims; if so, when. 
When the backlog is overcome, will the previous payment arrangement be reinstated. 
What as the average delay in respect of claims in each State at the end of May and August 1 974. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) What voluntary organisations have requested financial assistance from the Department of Agriculture for the establishment or maintenance of a federal headquarters. 
What has been the response to the requests. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
1 ) What voluntary organisations have requested financial assistance from the Department of Repatriation and Compensation for the establishment or maintenance of a federal headquarters. 
What has been the response to the requests. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What progress has been made with the development and acceptance of a standard insulin syringe. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has he received any requests from State Ministers for Health, medical bodies or private individuals to rename Murray Valley Encephalitis. 
Has he or any medical body under his. control discussed this matter and/or made any recommendations to change the name. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
1 ) What voluntary organisations have requested financial assistance from his Department for the establishment or maintenance of a federal headquarters 
) What has been the response to the requests? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) What research or commercial trials are being conducted into a low fat butter of about 40 per cent butterfat with milk protein added. 
Can the Minister say what countries other than West Germany have introduced a low fat butter, and what success all of these countries have had with it. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
1 ) What voluntary organisations have requested financial assistance from his Department for the establishment or maintenance of a federal headquarters. 
What has been the response to the requests. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
1 ) What voluntary organisations have requested financial assistance from his Department for the establishment or maintenance of a federal headquarters. 
What has been the response to the requests. 
I wish to commend the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  for his initiative in this piece of legislation the Homeless Persons Assistance Bill. I support the principle of providing financial assistance for these voluntary agencies and organisations providing shelter for the homeless and for wives and children escaping violence. Many of these organisations have experienced considerable financial difficulty in the present inflationary situation. This, combined with certain problems of health and building regulations in some areas, has meant that the number of beds available for this unhappy group of people has actually declined. Something of a crisis has developed in this area. I also support and applaud the provision of finance for social workers, for rehabilitation and for subsidising food costs. 
I wish to refer to the problem concerning the exclusion of local government at this time. In his second reading speech the Minister said: 
Earlier announcements regarding the Government's intention to introduce this worthwhile program, an initiative in a completely new field as far as the Australian Government is concerned, mentioned that statutory authorities would be able to participate. 
He went on to explain the reasons- I accept that they are sensible reasons- why in the first instance they are not included. I want to ask the Minister whether the exclusion of statutory authorities means that local government bodies are not included at the present time. 
-That is clear. I accept the reasons that the Minister has given and also that in the first instance the Government perhaps has financial problems and wants to see how the scheme will work. I want to draw to the Minister's attention the problem in country communities where I think local government should eventually be included. In my electorate there is a community of about 10,000 people which has a definite need for a night shelter. The city is not large enough to provide a self-sustaining voluntary organisation specifically in that area and it appears that the possibility of other organisations using it as an adjunct to their work is fairly remote. I think that the local government body is perhaps the most likely base for the establishment of such a night shelter, if not in total then in part. I hope that, as the scheme develops and as the Government sees how it is going financially and whether it is successful, this point about local government servicing some of the smaller communities outside the major metropolitan areas can be looked at again. The second piece of legislation is the Nursing Homes Assistance Bill. 
Right, that clears up that point. I thank the Minister. 
I think it is better to have it satisfactorily decided now than it be the subject of later discussion, and I thank the Minister for that correction. I move to the second piece of legislation, the Nursing Homes Assistance Bill. Like other Opposition members I reluctantly support this Bill. It does provide, initially at least, some financial guarantee for the religious and charitable organisations who are conducting nursing homes. I believe that eventually these bodies will or could live to regret this action because of the power conferred on the Minister in this legislationa power to determine how those organisations or those nursing homes will operate, down to the approval of budgets and even, perhaps, to the siting of new constructions. It appears fairly inevitable that an average cost will be established for organisations at a State level or community level and that those above that average cost will be forced to reduce. 
In many ways it is a mischievous piece of legislation because I feel its deliberate aim is to squeeze the private nursing homes, and it disregards the present nursing home bed situation in this country. According to the annual report of the Department of Social Security for 1973-74, there are presently 54,420 nursing home beds in this country and of this number 42,328 are in what are called participating homes, meaning religious or charitable or private nursing homes as distinct from State nursing homes. The number in this category has declined slightly from the previous year and my information is that that particular section, the private nursing homes, has declined more greatly- up to 2,000 beds have disappeared- in the last 12 months. The point I make is that the majority or nursing home beds in Australia are in this category and anybody who ignores this situation ignores the well being of people who are requiring nursing home care. He also ignores the fact that information provided indicates that they provide more economic care than at least the government nursing homes. I think the religious and charitable organisations may be marginally the most economic. 
To me, the mischief in this legislation follows this pattern: The pensioner patient's contribution is to be fixed in the legislation but subject to regulation, and the Minister will always have control over what the level of nursing home bed subsidy will be. He will squeeze the private nursing homes by not updating the nursing home bed subsidy in line with inflation as he did for the first 18 months of this Government's life. It was only after those first 18 months, when it became apparent that there was no satisfactory alternative provision of bed care for all those thousands of people in private nursing homes, that the Minister and the Government relented. Now, by this different tack, he is dividing the religious and charitable homes from the private ones. Their income will be maintained by the deficit financing arrangement but, because the bed subsidies are not increased in line with inflation, the private nursing homes will be squeezed out. Then, I presume, the religious and charitable homes will be encouraged by the $4 to $ 1 grants to take over some of these private nursing homes that have been forced out of business. 
I think it is necessarily suspicious when one considers the 18-month time lag after the Labor Party took office before any alteration was made to the nursing home subsidy. This was during the most inflationary period Australia has had for many years. Of course, since then inflation has accelerated and with this acceleration in inflation the problems of survival of nursing homes will increase unless the nursing home bed subsidy is regularly altered. 
In both of these pieces of legislation there is a general principle with which I am not happy. The point 1 make is not restricted to this Government because it was legislation of the previous Government that instituted the nursing home bed subsidy arrangements. I refer to the method of payment. I would prefer to see a form of State grant arrangement so that the States would continue to have a responsibility in this area. I would also like to see the Commonwealth adopt basically, or move towards, a common fee or common bed subsidy. At present, there are still considerable variations between the amount of bed subsidy in the different States. There is a movement towards a standard fee. I think this movement should be gradual to prevent problems but it should, nevertheless, continue. If the States had greater responsibility through a form of State grant, then if a State wished to pursue different regulations or requirements for its nursing home beds, in conjuction with this federalist approach the State would have the responsibility of maintaining its position. Together with other members of the Opposition I support both pieces of legislation. 
-The honourable member for Henty  (Mrs Child)  talks about the people's decision as though the people supposedly had spoken in favour of what appears now to be the Government's still-born health policy. It is interesting, if the people have spoken, that in all the gall up polls on this question the vast majority of Australians have been in favour of the existing arrangements and continue to be in favour of the existing arrangements in spite of all the propaganda that Government members have displayed on this matter. The Bill is a conglomeration of four or five separate health and welfare proposals. The major part of it concerns, first, the quest for dictatorial power for the Minister over the health insurance funds; secondly, matters relating to increased nursing home subsidies; thirdly, the correction of anomalies with the handicapped children payments; fourthly, the widening of the provision with respect to hearing aids to enable the supply of other surgical appliances by ministerial regulation; and, fifthly, the extension of full approval rights for certain friendly society dispensaries. 
The Opposition has made it quite plain that it is in favour of certain parts of this legislationthe positive provisions of the Bill which relate to nursing homes, handicapped children and surgical appliances- but it believes most emphatically that the Bill should be withdrawn and redrafted to allow these positive aspects to become law but to omit those unsavoury aspects concerning unnecessary ministerial control over health insurance funds as well as what we believe are unnecessary additional provisions relating to certain friendly societies in South Australia and Queensland. 
The major part of the Bill concerns the quest for power over the voluntary health insurance funds. This Bill is the latest attempt by the Minister to dominate these funds. He failed to cower them by disapproving the just increase in premium that was requested by 2 funds in New South Wales. The answer to that particular episode came in the Supreme Court recently, when the funds were completely vindicated and the 
Minister was defeated. So he has tried another tack. He tried to inveigle the health insurance funds into accepting agency arrangements for his proposed national health scheme. To the credit of the voluntary health insurance funds, they are not silly enough to commit suicide. Now, by this Bill, the Minister wants to take them over by ministerial power and, as the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  has pointed out quite clearly, he will have the power to appoint inspectors and then judicial managers, and once the latter are placed in this position of control over a fund by the Minister and are subject to the Minister, they will decide to accept an agency arrangement for the Government's proposed scheme. 
Special emphasis is placed on overpowering the central feature of Commonwealth support for the health funds through the special account. Because of the unwillingness of this Government to update its assistance to the funds in line with inflation, as it should to protect the people of Australia, the special account has achieved even more significant importance. Now the Minister intends to attack the special account by forcing the funds, through Ministerial control, to transfer up to 25 per cent of the expenditure under the special account during the previous year. This same special account is to be abolished if the Government's proposed health scheme is introduced. Hence, with the end of the special account, will come the end of many specialist private hospitals which have been serving this community for many years. The Minister obviously is either aware of the need for continued private health insurance, or he has a complete lack of faith in the likelihood of the acceptance of his own legislation; otherwise, he would not be bothering at this time to introduce such legislation. If his scheme does ever get off the ground, it is obvious that because of the inability of many Australians to obtain a hospital bed they will be forced to continue with private health insurance, no matter how expensive it is. Hence his desire for control. We reject these proposals as a completely unjust and unwarranted intrusion into the voluntary health funds. 
The Opposition has no quarrel with the nursing home and handicapped children's proposals. It supports and basically congratulates the Government for the widening of the provision related to surgical appliances. Previously this was restricted to hearing aids; now it will be widened to surgical appliances generally. The provision of appliances additional to the 2 suggested at the moment- stoma appliances and home dialysis units- will be introduced by ministerial regulation. There will be a number of future extensions of this policy to include other surgical appliances which I think we all would support if they were researched and worked out properly and cost controlled. A person could have a chronic illness which could cost the pharmaceutical benefit scheme, and hence the Government and the taxpayers, hundreds of dollars a year on repeat medicines. But if a person has some physical ailment, quite often requiring some sort of surgical appliance, he could miss out altogether. I can think of a number of other surgical appliances that hopefully will be included in the future. 
There are a couple of curious aspects of the 2 reports from the Working Party on Medical and Surgical Aids and Appliances. Both reports have been published for some time- one in April and one in June. The Working Party contacted people who were expert and interested in the field of stoma appliances and kidney problems and, although these reports have been published for many months, very few, if any, of these people have been sent copies of the Working Party reports. It would seem to me to have been sensible for those people to be supplied with copies of these reports seeking their comments to see whether, although the Working Party has researched this matter, there are not ways of improving what is in the reports. I should like some assurance on a couple of points from whoever replies to this debate on behalf of the Minister. I refer to the report on the provision of stoma appliances wherein a recommendation states: 
Approved colestomy and ileostomy appliances be made available, to all who need them, from hospitals operated by the State and Australian Governments; religious and charitable organisations; health centres; and stoma associations. 
These appliances are required after surgery. Much surgery is done in private hospitals and not in State hospitals. Does this mean that if a person attends a private hospital rather than a State hospital he will not be entitled to the supply of these appliances from that hospital? I would like an answer from the Minister on this matter. Presumably, the proposal would include a person in a private or intermediate ward in a State hospital. However, I think an answer, particularly on the aspect of private hospitals, is desired by the people who have an interest in this subject. 
There is also the question of the provision of these appliances through pharmacists in country areas. How do people manage in the country if they require these appliances but live many miles from a stoma association or a hospital that has experience in the supply of these appliances? I am told that many country people would prefer to have the supply made available through their local pharmacist. I would like an answer on this particular point also. Everyone to whom I have spoken has agreed with the recommendation that stomal therapists should be trained, on the basis of a registered nurse, and that such therapists should be available in hospitals where operations have taken place so that training in the use of appliances can be given. We evidently have in Australia a low percentage of people on home dialysis treatment for kidney failure- about 25 to 30 per cent, which is about half that of Britain and some other countries- but we do have a far higher percentage of kidney transplants than Britain and many other countries. The report mentions the forms of assistance provided at the State level until now, and the forms certainly vary from State to State. 
I welcome the recommendation to provide a standardised form of assistance throughout Australia and also the move to some form of standardisation of equipment. But there is more need for careful cost control with the home dialysis equipment than with the stomal appliances, and I would be interested to hear from the Government how these proposals will be completely implemented, including the aspect of cost control. For example, I am told that one form of dialyser can be bought for about $20 and another form can be bought for twice as much. It is stated on both the $20 and the $40 packs that they are to be used only once, but experts in this field say that they can be used up to 9 times. I hope that some sort of advice can be given on this aspect of cost, which can get out of hand, as well as in relation to the safety margins of the different types of dialysers to be used and the number of repeats to be allowed in processing. 
There is also the point of financial assistance for home alterations. This is accepted, but where does one stop with home alterations? Will it mean the building of a completely new room to instal the equipment? I am sure that some people will try to do this if they can get away with it, and I hope that general rules will be provided for the instalment of this equipment in the home so that people will not burden the health scheme unduly by the use of this equipment. The question of prolonging life also brings a step closer the possibility of making home dialysers available free to those who need them. There is the question of whether or not this equipment will all be free and who will make the decisions on how long life should be prolonged. The provision of dialysis equipment could be and possibly will be only the first step, and pieces of life-prolonging equipment will be available which could be very expensive. I believe that some very difficult decisions will have to be made in the future by those who are concerned in the medical area and by those who are concerned in the cost area of government about these issues. 
My final point concerns the extensions of full approval to seven friendly societies in Queensland and five in South Australia. The National Health Act in 1964 froze the basic number of friendly societies in this country that would have full approval. Those societies which have commenced since that time have only limited approval, and by limited approval it is meant that they can dispense to society members but they cannot dispense to the general public, particularly at the reduced rates that apply in the society dispensaries. Some of the States have restrictions on the number of friendly societies which can be established in the State and some have no restrictions. In fact, I understand that in 2 States the entitlement is not completely filled at the present time. In Queensland there appears to be no State-imposed restriction, and this brings with it certain problems. There are too many pharmacists in existence, and I believe that the Pharmacy Guild is doing its best to reduce the numbers in order to make pharmacies more viable. There is no question by the Opposition that the friendly societies should be restricted or prevented from dispensing to their own members, which is the right of every co-operative and, as a believer in co-operatives, I support them. But the friendly societies are in a privileged position in that they are not forced to charge a $ 1 prescription fee. Under the National Health Act, general pharmacies have to charge the prescription fee and they cannot give rebates. I understand that the general fee in the friendly society pharmacies is 50c, or half the fee charged by ordinary pharmacies. If we approve these 12 additional friendly society pharmacies there is nothing to stop more pharmacies commencing in the State of Queensland on a limited approval basis and then requiring or wanting or expecting the Commonwealth Government to allow them to dispense not only to their own members, which I say they have every right to do and I congratulate them on this, but to the general public as well, and I believe that this is not in the best interests of pharmacy generally. 
There is another provision in the legislation which refers to changing the age of minors in relation to the friendly societies. Until now the Act has provided that persons of 16 years or under can be accepted as members of a friendly society although they cannot join in their own right but are members through the membership of their parents. There is an updating provision in the Bill concerning full-time students at university or students who for some reason are still dependent on their parents. The Opposition accepts that this is a sensible and necessary updating of the definition of an allowable dependent for the purposes of membership of a friendly society through the parents of the dependent. It is not just the view of the Opposition on this question of friendly societies which should be considered. There are also the recommendations made by the Joint Select Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits, which presented a report to this Parliament about 2 years ago. The Committee made this recommendation: 
The Committee recommends that in the event of the Commonwealth approving any expansion of the rights of contributors to friendly society dispensaries to receive rebates for national health scheme prescriptions, other organisations should also be approved to provide similar benefits at private pharmacies on payment of a similar contribution. 
At present private pharmacies are refused this. Paragraph 265 of the report and other paragraphs concerning friendly societies confirm the attitude that the Opposition has taken on this matter. 
To sum up, the Opposition believes that there are both good and bad aspects of this conglomerate Bill and it will positively move in the Senate for the deletion of certain aspects covering the control of the voluntary health insurance funds as well as the extension of full approval to the 12 dispensaries. The Opposition will move for the deletion of these provisions from the Bill but it will support the positive aspects, including those relating to nursing homes, handicapped children, surgical appliances, and the change in the definition of a junior for the purpose of friendly societies. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What aerodromes have been approved, and what financial grants have they received, under the Government's Local Ownership Plan for each of the years 1971-72, 1972-73 and 1973-74. 
(1)- 
What aerodromes have received provisional approval but are still awaiting final approval and the Government grant. 
Have the criteria for the Local Ownership Plan been altered by the present Government. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What research is his Department undertaking or sponsoring into tractor and other rural vehicle and machinery safety. 
What safety education programs are being conducted or planned. 
What co-ordination is there with State authorities in respect of research, education or safety legislation. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
1 ) What steps have been taken to enlarge the power  of  the River Murray Commission to include control over water quality in the Murray River. 
What progress is being made, and what are the problem areas. 
-As the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  has said the 3 Bills before us are the same as those introduced on 10 July and they are part of the Government's badly foundering health proposals. As day succeeds day, the only certainty in the whole of the Government's proposals for its health insurance scheme is that it will not be introduced. Of some particular interest is that on 10 July when the Bills were introduced for the first time there were 4 Bills and the fourth Bill was the National Health Bill to repeal or to have the ability to repeal the present National Health Act. There may be some significance in the fact that this Bill has not been reintroduced this time because the present legislation will be required for many years to come. 
The Government does not need the 3 Bills to implement its health scheme. The 1.35 per cent tax levy that is the basis of these Bills can be replaced by taxation revenue and as time progresses the 1.35 per cent levy will be a falling percentage of the total cost of the scheme anyway. It is now well below one-half; it is possibly about one-third, if that, of the total cost to the Government. In other words, the majority of finance for this most expensive proposal will come from tax revenue, that is from every taxpayer's pocket. The honourable member for Hotham made the point so well that the 3 schemes- health, national compensation and superannuation- will require a 25 per cent increase on the present taxation level of this country. This makes a farce of the speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in which he said that next year he will be able to reduce taxes again. The statement itself was a farce because the taxation reductions were only for those on lower incomes and once one gets to the middle level of taxation in Australia where the majority of Australians are paying tax- that is, on earnings of $5,000 to $6,000-a person's tax actually increases. How these schemes can be implemented, if they are to be implemented, without massive increases in taxation is beyond the belief of those who have commented on it. As I have said, this makes a farce of the Prime Minister's statement. 
The 'Australian Financial Review' of today's date has a most interesting editorial entitled: 'Paradise lost by bungling- not by external forces'. So even the 'Australian Financial Review' has added to the chorus of those who say that the present plight of Australia is not the fault of external forces operating on this country which we cannot control but is the fault of bungling. One paragraph in the editorial states: 
In the process, Labor has taken what must be one of the best positioned economies in the entire world and turned it upside down. 
If this increase in taxation that will be required for these measures is made, how much more upside down turning will take place? 
I believe that the Government's scheme will not be introduced. The people of Australia are against it. Time after time gallup polls have shown that a majority of Australians are saying that they are satisfied with the present scheme. The health funds are against it as the honourable member for Hotham quoted from this morning's Melbourne 'Age'. In the short term the Government's scheme would require the expertise in the agency arrangements of the private funds. The private funds would be very stupid to agree to this because as has been said before, they would be only committing suicide if they did so. 
The medical professionals who are required to service our health scheme are against it. I also believe that four out of six State governments will be against it. This scheme cannot be introduced without the agreement of those State governments. The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  wrote to the States some months ago to get their acceptance of the implementation of these proposals. To my understanding there is possibly only one State at this stage which will be going ahead, and that will be South Australia. This is not direct information- it has been taken from letters written to the medical profession in that State from which I will quote in a minute. If four out of six State governments refuse to be taken over, and this scheme would be a takeover of what has been a State responsibility, I defy anyone to say how the scheme can be implemented. 
I now wish to refer to the position in South Australia about which  Dr Deeble,  the special adviser to the Minister for Social Security has been writing to  Dr Cowling,  the head of the Australian Medical Association in South Australia. These letters have been written on notepaper of the Minister for Social Security.  Dr Deeble  has been putting the points on how the scheme would be implemented in that State. He referred to the payment of doctors. This raises a very curious situation. In Canberra at present an alteration is being attempted in the staffing arrangements of hospitals in which private access by specialists will be restricted and abolished and will be replaced by a salaried specialist force. Yet at the same time in relation to South Australia  Dr 
Deeble, when speaking of the implementation of this proposal, stated: 
In metropolitan hospitals a fee-for-service system within the limits of a pool would operate amongst doctors who accepted an invitation to participate in the care of 'hospital patients'. 
What a contradiction. What a farce of a supposedly uniform system which is claimed to be better than anything else when on the one hand in Canberra they are messing up an existing satisfactory arrangement and on the other hand in South Australia at the same time agreeing with a fee-for-service system as part of the supposed universal health scheme. What does the Government want? What does the Government really know about the implementation of its proposals. 
The State Health Ministers, as the honourable member for Hotham said, have consistently at conferences recommended necessary but limited improvements to the existing scheme. Everyone acknowledges that improvements have to be made. But these should be made on an evolutionary basis not a revolutionary basis that will bring chaos to the health scheme. The honourable member for Hotham outlined the points that were made at conferences of Health Ministers. They are: Greater share of cost sharing for pensioner medical bed days- pensioners are an accepted Commonwealth reponsibility and it is right that we should not be loading the States at great cost to themselves with the cost of pensioners who are hospital patients; an improved subsidised health benefits scheme which would provide an automatic form of cover for low income people plus a greater degree of flexibility for family size; medical cover for outpatients; discussions on psychiatric patients and ambulance costs, etc. 
We in government will co-operate with the State Health Ministers to allow them and us at the same time to meet the health arrangements which the majority of Australians have so clearly demonstrated they want. In a number of discussions already held with the majority of State Health Ministers I believe we have already shown our willingness for Federal-State cooperation on this most important health issue. The honourable member for Hotham in a significant statement 2 days ago, which was not reported, made reference to the Health Insurance Commission in which at the present time thousands of people are being employed in addition to the Department of Social Security at a cost of some millions of dollars to the taxpayers of this country- we say unnecessary cost. I want to quote 2 paragraphs from the statement by the honourable member for Hotham because I think they are important. He said: 
The Liberal-Country Party Government would disband the Health Insurance Commission, if returned to power at an appropriate time,  Mr Don  Chipp, Shadow Minister for Social Security, said today. 

 Mr Chipp said he was making this statement now so that present and potential employees of the Commission would know where they stood. The Opposition's intentions also needed to be made public in fairness to contributors to voluntary health insurance funds,  staffs of these  funds and their managements. 
This also raises the interesting question of the Medibank publicity program. Starting in January the Government will spend more than $1.5m,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  of your money and of the taxpayers' money on publicising the scheme which is not off the ground and which I believe will not get off the ground, which I have shown is internally contradictory, and which will require the co-operation of the States and variations between States for its implementation. What sort of constructive publicity can be mounted in such a confused situation? I believe it will be Party propaganda paid for by the taxpayers of Australia to the tune of more than $l.Sm. In this time of a Queensland election some curious statements have been made about health. 
-Is that a fact? I do not think so. These statements have been made about Queensland accepting or not accepting money for health services. I remind everybody that of the total Queensland health bill- this includes pharmaceutical benefit payments etc.- only 16 per cent comes from Commonwealth Government sources. The vast bulk of expenditure on health in that State comes from Queensland itself. So for the Commonwealth to talk about what Queensland is not doing or what Commonwealth funds it is not spending on health is rather farcical. In fact this BUI will hurt Queenslanders more than people of any other State. Queensland already has a free public hospitals system. If these Bills are passed Queenslanders will be taxed 1.35 per cent of their taxable incomes, which they are not taxed at the moment. In other words, Queensland and Queenslanders will actually be harmed by the introduction and passage of this Government legislation. The ordinary working family will be taxed twice if both husband and wife work; so the average family with both husband and wife working will also be harmed. 
On Tuesday in this House the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  said in reply to a question from the honourable member for Bowman (Mr Keogh) ... we have now managed to get the agreement of all States to the establishment of joint works councils to look at hospital building priorities. 
The Queensland Minister for Health has asked me to tell the House and the people of Australia that that is not correct. The Prime Minister, as reported in the 'Courier Mail' of 4 December stated: ... the Joint Hospitals Works Council for Queensland had discussed this on November 19. 
He was referring to the Mt Gravatt hospital. I repeat that the Queensland Minister for Health said that no works council has been agreed to by Queensland. Exploratory discussions have taken place but as yet there is no council. Yesterday in Victoria exploratory discussions took place between representatives of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission and the Victorian Hospitals and Charities Commission on the possible establishment of a works council for that State. But Queensland and Victoria do not have hospitals works councils, in contradiction of what both the Minister for Health and the Prime Minister have said. 
The point is that, particularly at this time when referring to health care in Queensland, one should be careful about what are the facts. The facts are not as suggested by the Minister for Health and the Prime Minister. One can look also at another curious situation in Queensland. It is stated that Mt Gravatt hospital should be built as a Federal Government hospital. This was a great announcement together with that dealing with Melbourne and Sydney hospitals some months ago. There has been curious silence about this ever since. I believe the Government has discovered- perhaps not the Government; perhaps most supporters of the Government did not want it anyway- or at least the Prime Minister has discovered that one just does not build a hospital overnight. It takes years of planning. One does not just move in as an Australian Government without the administrative backup that the States already have and take over the running of hospitals. The Queensland Government, as a constructive proposal, suggested that instead of Federal money being put into building the Mt Gravatt hospital at a greater rate than it needs to be built- the Queensland Government is building Mt Gravatt hospital anyway- this money could be far better used for the people of Queensland by rebuilding the Mater Hospital in 
Brisbane. I am glad the Prime Minister acknowledged this in the 'Courier-Mail' report which states: 
He said consideration was being given also to a Queensland proposal to rebuild the Mater Hospital on its present site in South Brisbane. 
I think this reveals the more accurate position of health proposals as between the Commonwealth and the Queensland Governments at present. The Commonwealth Government is accepting the reality and some of the wisdom of these suggestions. I hope this is done as it would mean that Commonwealth money will be made available for rebuilding the Mater Hospital. If not, I suggest the Commonwealth still has its priorities wrong. 
To conclude, as the honourable member for Hotham has said, the Opposition is opposed to these Bills now in the same way as it was opposed to them when they were introduced on 10 July. If the Government wishes to create a double dissolution situation on this matter and on health matters generally we will be happy to accommodate it. 

 -Mr Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to put several questons to the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  concerning sugar - 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What applications have been received by his Department from regional groups or organisations in the Electoral Division of Murray in relation to the Australian Assistance Plan. 
What projects have been approved, and what funds are to be provided to which groups and projects. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
What is the present f.o.b. price of rock phosphate from (a) Morocco, (b) Nauru, (c) Christmas Island and (d) Ocean Island. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many requests has he received for the restoration of the free milk scheme from (a) school and pre-school bodies and (b) State Ministers of Health, Education or Agriculture. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Government acceded to the requests of organisations, such as the Family Planning Associations and the Nursing Mother's Association of Australia, for the provision of a progesterone only oral contraceptive; if not, why not. 
Do the presently available contraceptives frequently decrease the amount of maternal milk for breast feeding mothers and thus discourage this desirable practice. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has his Department been allocated any role in the development of Albury/Wodonga and other growth centres. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
1 ) When will de-snagging operations begin on the section of the Murray River between Wodonga and the Ovens River which was agreed to by the River Murray Commission several years ago. 
Which State authority was instructed to carry out this work, and what is the reason for the work not proceeding. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
Has the River Murray Commission carried out any planning on enlarging the capacity of the Murray River, in the area known as the Barmah Choke, in readiness for the increased river flow after the construction of the Dartmouth Dam; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What progress has been made with the Prime Minister's 1974 Policy Speech offer to build a new general hospital in Launceston and a new women's hospital in Hobart. 
Will these hospitals be built and operated by the Australian or the Tasmanian Government. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What research is being conducted by his Department into the advantages of the addition of fluoride to town water supplies. 
What assistance is being provided to State Health Departments on technical or educational matters to promote the fluoridation of water supplies. 
What cities and towns in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory have fluoridation. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
1 ) Who are the members of the Farm Irrigation Practices Sub-committee of the River Murray Inquiry Working Party. 
How often has this committee met. 
Have any personal or written submissions been considered by this sub-committee; if so, from whom. 
When can any recommendations be expected from this sub-committee. 
Is Government finance available, either in grants or loans, to encourage the adoption of any improved practices recommended by the sub-committee. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) What voluntary organisations have requested financial assistance from his Department for the establishment or maintenance of a federal headquarters. 
) What has been the response to the requests. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) What voluntary organisations have requested financial assistance from his Department for the establishment or maintenance of a federal headquarters. 
) What has been the response to the requests. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What voluntary organisations have requested financial assistance from his Department for the establishment or maintenance of a federal headquarters. 
) What has been the response to the requests. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the average number of milligrams of caffeine per tablet in the various types of compound analgesics available over the counter. 
What is the average number of milligrams of caffeine in a cup of (a) tea, (b) coffee and (c) some brands of cola. 
Are there any reasons why it is more deleterious to consume caffeine in analgesics than in beverages. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) What research is his Department undertaking or sponsoring into tractor and other farm machinery safety. 
What safety education programmes are being conducted or planned. 
What co-ordination is there with State authorities in respect of research, education or safety legislation. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
Who has commissioned and financed the research of  Dr Sandford  D. Clark of the Melbourne University. 
What has he been asked to report on, and to whom. 
What reports on what subjects have been received to date, and by whom. 
Will these reports be made available to Members of Parliament. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
What investigations have been made into the feasibility of an all risks crop insurance scheme. 
) Who is responsible for these investigations. 
Does the Minister intend (a) to introduce a Government supported scheme, (b) to encourage private insurance companies to introduce a scheme or (c) to do neither. 
If a scheme is to be introduced, when will this occur. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
What non-metropolitan cities and towns have a full Commonwealth Employment Service Office, rather than an agency arrangement. 
Where have offices been established, in both metropolitan and non-metropolitan locations, since December 1972. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will a political party levy deducted from a politician 's salary, such as the one recommended at the recent Queensland Labor Party Convention, be tax deductible. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
1 ) Were the recent mercury level tests on fish sold in Melbourne, conducted by the Analytical Laboratories, made in co-operation with the Victorian Department of Health or was that Department unaware of them. 
Have similar tests been made in the other capital cities; if so, what are the results; if not, why not. 
Was there any communication between his Department and State Departments of Health, before the tests were made, to ascertain if these Departments were monitoring mercury levels. 
Was any attempt made by the officers conducting the tests to ascertain where the sharks were caught; if not, why not. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) What voluntary organisations have requested financial assistance from his Department for the establishment or maintenance of a federal headquarters. 
What has been the response to the requests. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the standard of those he has appointed as salaried medical specialists at Canberra hospitals adequate for the requirements of the medical school to be established at the Australian National University. 
When is it anticipated that this medical school will be established. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Who was responsible for the appointment of  Dr Mann  as a salaried specialist to the Canberra hospitals immediately prior to the well advertised meeting of Canberra doctors on 2 October 1974 at which it was believed these doctors would accept a revised sessional contract. 
How many specialists have been appointed as a result of the pre-October advertisement, and from which countries did these specialists come. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What community health centres are operating in each State and Territory. 
Which of them were constructed under the Government's program, and which were already in existence, or established independently, but are supported by the Government. 
) What personnel are employed, and in what categories, in each of these centres. 
What is the form of remuneration to the various categories of personnel at each of the centres. 
What charges are made to patients for the services rendered by each of the categories of personnel in each of the centres. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) What voluntary organisations have requested financial assistance from his Department for the establishment or maintenance of a federal headquarters. 
What has been the response to the requests. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) What voluntary organisations have requested financial assistance from his Department for the establishment or maintenance of a Federal headquarters. 
What has been the response to the requests. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) What voluntary organisations have requested financial assistance from the Attorney-General's Department for the establishment or maintenance of a federal headquarters. 
What has been the response. to the requests. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) What voluntary organisations have requested financial assistance from his Department for the establishment or maintenance of a federal headquarters. 
What has been the response to the requests. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What non-metropolitan cities and towns have a Department of Social Security office. 
Where have offices been established in both metropolitan and non-metropolitan locations, since December 1972. 
Are there any joint Social Security/Employment Service offices; if so, where. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that State payroll tax saved by companies, who are approved for payroll tax exemption as decentralised industries in certain States, have this tax saving taxed at the company tax rate by the Taxation Office. 
If so, how much tax was levied by the Taxation Officer on those companies so exempted by State Government legislation in each State during 1 973-74. 
What requests has he received from State governments, or Ministers or private organisations for exemption of this company income. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) How many gallons of apple, pear and other fruit juice concentrate have fruit juice processors requested adjustment assistance for following the abolition of the carbonated beverages sales tax exemption in the 1973 Budget. 
What financial assistance has been provided in respect of how many gallons of juice as at 1 December 1974. 
3 ) When will the remainder receive assistance. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Department of Health requested the construction of a new incinerator at Perth Airport. 
If so, when will it be built. 
Of those airports and seaports presently without a satisfactory incinerator, does Penh present the greatest possible quarantine danger. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What criteria are used to establish priority for the evaluation of drugs. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What steps have been taken, and what steps are planned to accelerate the evaluation of drugs. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
In descending order of importance, what is the most likely way that the following diseases could enter Australia: 
foot and mouth disease, 
rabies, 
bluetongue and 
Newcastle disease. 

 Dr Everingham: The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In descending order of importance, the possible methods of entry of these diseases into Australia are as follows: 
foot and mouth disease 
infected ruminants or pigs 
infected meat or other infected livestock products such as semen (iti) infected animal discharges on footwear, clothing or hands of people who have had recent close contact with infected animals 
transient infection in the nasal passages of people who have had recent close contact with infected animals; 
rabies 
infected carnivores 
infected animals of species other than carnivores; 
bluetongue 
infected ruminants 
infected biting insect vectors; 
Newcastle disease 
infected birds or eggs 
infected uncanned poultry or other inadequately processed poultry meat, offal or poultry products 
infected wild birds having close contact with domestic poultry. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
When will legislation be introduced to require pharmaceutical manufacturing companies to reveal cost of production figures for individual drugs. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What sum has been spent on advertisements, in each of the media, in the anti-smoking campaign. 
How much of the expenditure in each of the media has been spent in the country section of that medium. 
Has the Government failed in its promise to compensate country media for the loss of revenue with the phasing out of cigarette advertising. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
What Australian Government Departments (a) rent space from private sources and (b) have space in Australian Government owned buildings in Shepparton Victoria. 
What Australian Government Departments, Commissions or Offices are contemplating setting up a branch office in Shepparton. 
Is his Department looking for a site for a new building or centre in Shepparton. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What courses are available in Australia, at what levels and in what institutions, for audiologists and audiometrists 
Is the number of graduates adequate for Australia's needs. 
How many of each of these categories are employed by the National Acoustic Laboratories. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he detail the tougher quarantine measures, to prevent the entry into Australia of plant and animal diseases, to which he recently referred. 
2 ) Has he considered banning the swill feeding of pigs in areas adjacent to ports, as this method of feeding has been shown to be responsible for foot and mouth disease outbreaks in other countries. 
How many seaports and airports now have incinerators for the disposal of waste from ships and aeroplanes. 
What airports and seaports used by overseas transports are still without an approved incinerator. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many drugs have been presented for evaluation, and how many have been approved in each financial year since 1 July 1970. 
What is the (a) longest, (b) shortest and (c) average length of dme between presentation and approval for the drugs approved since 1 July 1970. 
How many drugs were awaiting approval on 1 July 1974. 
How many of these were presented more than (a) 24 months, (b) 18 months, (c) 12 months and (d) 6 months ago. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice 
What human and animal diseases cannot be finally confirmed in Australia, and at what overseas laboratories does final confirmation take place. 
) When will Australia be able to do this work for each of these diseases, and what steps are being taken to provide the facilities. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What voluntary organisations have requested financial assistance from the Department of Foreign Affairs for the establishment or maintenance of a federal headquarters. 
What has been the response to the requests. 
If it had been anybody else on the Labor side of the chamber than the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  who referred to the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  in a most unparliamentary manner as a synthetic member, I would have asked for a withdrawal but I think that is all we can expect from the level of that honourable member. If one talks about dishonesty in the whole presentation of this debate one should look a little closer at that honourable member. What rot he talked when referring to a mandate for the scheme. One has to look only at the speeches of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  at the 1972 election and the 1974election. There were about 50 pages of proposals. How many pages of those proposals were on a national health scheme? 
Does the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  say that his proposals for superannuation or for old age pensions or something else were not the important matters? Does the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  say that his policy proposals were not the important matter? How can anybody say that there was a mandate for this particular proposal more than any other when it formed such a small part of the Government's overall proposals and when at the last Federal election the Government's vote dropped? How Government supporters can say that they have a mandate for anything after the vote dropping, especially when they made a bigger issue of this at the last election than at the election before, nobody in his right mind can understand. 
We are not claiming that we have a mandate. That is why we are being honest and you are being dishonest in saying that the Government has a mandate above everything else for this proposal. As for talking about observing the law and the Constitution, the States have constitutionally and traditionally had a role in the delivery of health care in Australia. These States have been ignored in the presentation of this proposal by this Government. So let us not hear any more synthetic talk about sticking to the law and the Constitution. We heard the story that the proposal was passed by Parliament and that to spend $1.5m on advertising it is correct and is not political advertising. This scheme has not been implemented. There is at least a 50 per cent chance that there will be an election before this scheme is implemented. So all the money that the Government spends on this scheme will be blatant political advertising at the expense of the Australian taxpayer and money spent for straight political purposes- even if they are crooked political purposes in another waybefore this scheme is introduced is nothing else but spending money for the advantage of a political party at the expense of the Australian taxpayer. So much for the dishonesty allegations that are being thrown backwards and forwards particularly from the other side of the House. 
We are considering 2 contradictory Bills, the National Health Bill (No. 2) and the National Health Bill (No. 3). They are contradictory to each other and are contradictory to the avowed principles and purposes of the Government health program in general. Between them these 2 Bills imply that the Medibank scheme will actually not be introduced on 1 July. If the scheme is to be implemented on 1 July why at this eleventh hour- less than 4 months before the introduction date on which we are told both of these Bills will really become redundant- are they now being introduced? At least National Health Bill (No. 2 ) reduces the waiting period for eligibility of people unemployed. 
The Government recognises and is perhaps facing up partially to a problem of its own creation; that is, the greatest unemployment that Australia has seen since the depression. This is in a country where there was less reason for the problems of unemployment and runaway inflation to occur than in just about any other country in the world. It has now reached this massive level. By reducing the waiting period for those unemployed the Government at least has recognised what it has created. Together with the reduction provided for in the National Health Bill (No. 2) in the waiting period for those in that category there is to be reduction in the waiting period for those who are pregnant when joining a health fund. Both of those alterations are sensible ones and I congratulate the Minister for Social Security for introducing them. Quite frankly we should have done that when we were in Government. 
And there will be a few more pregnant pauses before the Minister's health scheme comes into effect. At least I am being honest in that regard, which is more than can be said for some of the advertising which is being promoted now in relation to the Minister's scheme. To continue the point I was making, I believe that the most sensible approach for the Government to adopt is to continue to alter the present scheme in the sensible way in which it has sought to alter it in relation to these 2 proposals. Surely that is better than trying to bring in something that is so completely different that it will bring about chaos in and cause great expense to this country. 
These 2 Bills also emphasise another point, that is, the value of the special account. The special account, which was introduced by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government, will be used in relation to the National Health Bill (No. 2) to pick up the expenses of those who are already pregnant when they join a health fund. Yet in the companion piece of legislationthe National Health Bill (No. 3)- the Minister has, by legislating against the health funds, also crippled the special account by depriving a health fund of its entitlement to the special account if the Minister considers that it has excessive financial reserves. So on the one hand the Minister is saying that the special account is a very valuable instrument of health policy and is adding to it and on the other he is taking away from it and adding to his own power over the health funds. However, the Minister already effectively sets the premiums that the health funds can charge and, in setting the premiums that the health funds can charge, he takes into calculation the amount of reserves that they have. Therefore he is trying to have 2 hits at the health funds at the same time. To show that the Minister has not actually been very generous in allowing the health funds to lift their premium rates I point out that in accordance with legislation introduced in this Parliament last year the funds have the right to appeal against the Minister's decision and that two did appeal against the Minister's decision and won handsomely. I believe that that proves that the Government will not allow the funds to retain adequate reserves and will not allow the funds to charge adequate premium levels. 
The Minister is also saying that there is probably no need for the funds after 1 July if he is honest in saying, as he does through the advertisements, that Medibank will come into effect on 1 July. If we are not going to need the funds after 1 July and if we, as Australians, are not going to need private health insurance after 1 July, why is the Minister going to so much trouble with this eleventh hour bid to tie up the health funds in knots and make them instruments of Government policy? Why is he doing that if they are going to be redundant? The Minister is trying to have it both ways. He is saying publicly at great expense to the taxpayer- at a minimum cost of $ 1 .5m- that there is no need for health insurance because the health millenium will arrive on 1 July, but by this legislation he is effectively making the point that he is aware that the millenium will not arrive on 1 July, that there will be a need for private health insurance and that he is doing his best to cripple the health insurance funds ahead of that date. 
That leads to the more important question of whether the Government's health scheme or, as the Government calls it, Medibank will be introduced as advertised or whether the Government is guilty of 2 sins in this respect. It is guilty of many sins, but is it guilty of 2 sins in relation to these health Bills and health generally? Is it guilty of, firstly, false advertising and, secondly, the expenditure of public funds for political purposes? I believe that it is guilty on both counts. The 4 non-Labor States have not agreed to the introduction of Medibank or the Goverment 's nationalised health scheme. Have detailed arrangements and agreements been reached with the States of South Australia and Tasmania for the implementation of Medibank? The answer must be no. The information I have received is that there has only been agreement in principle. There is less than 4 months to go before this scheme is supposed to be introduced in those 2 States; yet agreement has only been reached in principle to the scheme. Of course, those 2 States have to agree to the scheme because they are Labor States. That is ignoring for the moment the fact that the doctors in those 2 States have refused to participate in the scheme. I believe that this must lead one to draw the conclusion that the Medibank scheme cannot be introduced anywhere in Australia- in the States anyway- on 1 July as advertised. So the Government is guilty on the court of false advertising at the taxpayers' expense. 
The second point I wish to make is that the Government's scheme will not be free. People will have to pay more in total than they do now for their health benefits and their general health care and they will have to pay substantially more if they want more than a lowered standard of public ward accommodation at hospitals. They will have to pay dearly for the Government's health scheme through the tax system- so dearly that the Government will not or cannot say how much its scheme will cost in total. Most outsiders believe that it will be about double the existing health scheme arrangement. The Government cannot guarantee that there will be adequate public ward beds- that is, to use its own terminology, free beds-for the people because the majority of the people of Australia- 70 per cent of them- who now prefer better than public ward accommodation, that is, intermediate or private ward beds, will be forced to switch to public ward beds and those beds will not be available because the Government can provide adequate public ward beds only by taking over the beds in the private, religious and charitable hospitals. If it does that the Government will abolish one of its own arguments, that is, that it is not restricting the freedom of choice of hospital beds in this country. It will also be acting in a most unsavoury and undemocratic manner in the takeover process. 
I believe that the most expensive advertising campaign that is being conducted by the Government at the taxpayers' expense for Medibank should be referred to the Commissioner of Trade Practices under the consumer protection provisions of the Trade Practices Act for false advertising. All the allegations of attempts at false advertising by private companies that have been made by the Government would pale into insignificance beside the Government's massive false advertising campaign in this respect. Finally there is the question of the morality of the Government in spending $1.5m on a blatantly political campaign. The scheme has not been introduced yet. There may be an election before its implementation. I do not know whether there will be. Certainly the newspapers are talking about the holding of an election as if there is quite a possibility that that will happen and one has to believe the newspapers to a certain extent. Whenever the next election is held the respective health schemes will be a part of the competing policies of the 2 sides of the Parliament. Is it moral, is it just or is it fair for one side of the Parliamentthe Government- to use $ 1.5 m of the taxpayers' money to push one of its own policies without at least providing an equivalent opportunity for the other side of the Parliament to do the same? 
If an election is to be held I am sure that the Medibank scheme will not be the major part of that election campaign because the Government's disastrous mishandling of the Australian economy must be the major issue. How, in 2 short years, the Government has turned a prosperous country with one of the lowest inflation rates and one of the lowest unemployment rates in the world into one with one of the highest on both counts is a national disaster which must be exposed and which must become the major part of any election campaign. Never before in the history of this country has so much of the public's money been used for political advertising. If one adds to that the great public relations staffs which have been built up by Ministers and the Government machine generally, all at the public's expense, to push blatantly political policies one comes up with a scandal of national proportions on how the Government is using the taxpayers money. I believe that the public will appreciate that in time and react to it. The Opposition supports the National Health Bill (No. 2) and rejects the National Health Bill (No. 3). 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
How many patients, who were not entitled to receive treatment under the Repatriation Act, were treated at repatriation hospitals during 1973-74. 
How many of them were hospital staff. 
Were these patients provided with free hospital treatment. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1) Is his Department the constructing authority for incinerators at airports and seaports. 
If so, what requests from the Department of Health for incinerators are outstanding at the present time. 
When will incinerators be built at Newcastle, Darwin, Alice Springs and Adelaide. 
Would it be more satisfactory for the Department of Health to assume control for the construction as well as the maintenance of incinerators at ports. 
-The Minister for Health will be aware that the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works was instructed as a matter of urgency to investigate and recommend on the site for an off-shore maximum security animal quarantine station. This proposal, I might add, has the support of all major political parties, industry organisations and, I believe the Minister and his Department. This Committee reported to Parliament in September 1973 in favour of Cocos (Keeling) Islands. Now, 18 months later, nothing has happened. I ask the Minister: When will the Government allow the recommendation to be put to Parliament so that construction of the station can begin as the matter is urgent? If there appears to be some problem which will prevent early action in favour of Cocos Islands, will the Minister consider referring the matter back to the Committee for recommendation of another site, such as Christmas Island? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What complaints has he received, from organisations and individuals engaged in medical research, that important research will have to be curtailed because of lack of finance. 
What requests has he received for additional research grants. 
What is his attitude to the statements from medical research organisations that medical research is facing a crisis because of insufficient funds. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What checks are made at Perth Airport of Australians returning from tours of South-East Asia which commenced with Bali and ended at Singapore before flying to Perth. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) Which architectural firms have been approached by officers of his Department or any other department to discuss possible plans for Australian Government hospitals. 
Are Yuncken Freeman, Conrad and Gargett and the British firm of Llewellyn Davies among these. 
Have any of these firms been asked to produce plans for Australian Government hospitals in Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne; if so, what deadline has been set. 
If the Government decides not to proceed with its hospital program, will it be able to cancel the arrangements with these firms or is it required to pay for final plans and specifications. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) What voluntary organisations have requested financial assistance from his Department for the establishment or maintenance of a federal headquarters. 
What has been the response to the requests. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What voluntary organisations have requested financial assistance from his Department for the establishment or maintenance of a federal headquarters. 
What has been the response to the requests. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What was the average cost of a consultation at the Melba Health Centre for the months of July, August, September and October 1974. 
What are the component parts included in the determination of the cost of consultation. 
I address my question to the Minister for Health. Will the Minister confirm or deny that officers of the Health Insurance Commission are attempting to force on the Canberra Hospital Board arrangements for Australian Capital Territory hospitals under Medibank after 1 July that will discriminate against patients who wish to retain their own doctor, and which is contrary to the Minister's public assurance that Medibank will not interfere with this basic right? In particular, is it a fact that patients in Australian Capital Territory hospitals will be permitted a choice of doctor only if they pay for a single bed private room? Is it also a fact that an additional surcharge of $20 a day will be levied for such patients who retain their own doctor? If this is so, will the same penalties and restrictions be imposed in hospitals in the States if they agree to participate in the Government's scheme? 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) What voluntary organisations have requested financial assistance from his Department for the establishment or maintenance of a federal headquarters. 
) What has been the response to the requests. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Has he stated that the health insurance funds will be encouraged to provide insurance for intermediate and private ward patients after the Government's health insurance scheme commences. 
If so, what financial reserves will he allow, or what reserves does he believe is essential for these funds to have at that time, so that they can provide guaranteed insurance protection from commencement date. 
Will the special account be retained to assist long term patients with insurance in intermediate or private wards. 
Will any restrictions be placed on the type or length of cover the insurance funds will be allowed to provide. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
When will the Australian Prescriber and the Adverse Drug Reaction Bulletin commence publication. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How will people previously able to obtain pharmaceutical benefit prescriptions at the reduced amount be able to continue to do so after 1 July 1975 if the pensioner medical card is abolished and the Medibank card carries no pensioner entitlement identification. 
-I have listened with interest to the apology by the honourable member for Henty  (Mrs Child).  That apology would have sounded slightly more sincere if she had left her remarks at that apology instead of in turn attacking the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp).  The honourable member made the point that the honourable member for Hotham had been a member of this House for 13 years and that he should have some sympathy for a member who has not been here very long. The alternative view that can be taken is that those who have not been here very long should be more careful before they go racing into print. 
If the honourable member is sincere- I accept that she is- the Opposition would expect that she would now write to the same local newspapers, in the same way as she wrote before to blame the Liberal-National Country Party Opposition for what she said had occurred, and say that the mistake was hers and that it was not the fault of the Liberal-National Country Party Opposition that the Bills in question were not passed by both Houses of the Parliament. The Government, for some reason best known to itself and better known to the honourable member for Henty than to members on this side of the House, decided not to proceed with the legislation. This was after the offer had been made by the honourable member for Hotham that the Opposition would ensure a quick and speedy passage for the legislation. If the honourable member for Henty is completely sincere, as she said she is- I have no doubt that she is- I believe that she will write to the same newspapers letters setting out those facts and including the points that we have made, and make sure that those letters are published. I understand that with respect to the war service loans aspect, the honourable member may not be correct in her remarks and I suggest that that matter should be checked before anything further is said about it. 
I commend generally the provisions of the 2 Bills now before the House. Let me summarise in point form what they are. The Social Services Bill 1975 seeks to increase the single pension to $36 a week. The pension will be provided means test free to those who are 70 years of age and over. The waiting time qualification will be cut out and the proposal to make unemployment, sickness and special benefit payable weekly in advance instead of weekly in arrears will, with the passing of this Bill, reduce by 7 days the time it takes the claimant to receive a first benefit cheque. The allowance for dependent children will be increased by $1.50 a week. Special benefit will be payable immediately to persons newly discharged from gaol. Provision is also made for benefits to be paid to the credit of building society accounts. 
The Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill 1975 provides for service pensions to be paid free of means test to persons 70 years of age and over. 
That provision is comparable with the similar provision in the Social Services Bill. The Bill provides further that, in respect of those still subject to the means test for service disability pensions, 50 per cent of income will be disregarded in the assessment of the disability pension, with that part of the pension to be free of means test for application of other pensions. The service pension is to be extended to veterans of other Commonwealth countries who now reside in Australia. That latter aspect has been in the policy of the Australian Labor Party since the 1972 election. Quite a number of Commonwealth returned service men and women in my electorate had begun to despair that this proposal would ever be presented. But it is being presented now. 
I wish to comment on many of the points to which I have referred. The first which I mention is the payment in advance in respect of unemployment benefits and some other benefits. I note from the second reading speech of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  that this procedure commenced on 13 January. In my electorate in January, February and March the payment of unemployment benefits was running anything up to 6 weeks behind. People in my area would be most surprised to hear that unemployment benefits were actually being paid a week in advance from 1 3 January. 
Let me give several examples to make a specific point. In this respect I am not in any way criticising the officers of the Commonwealth Employment Service office or the Social Security office in my electorate. These people were swamped. They worked very hard then, and they are still working hard. When one looks at the National Employment and Retraining Schemethe NEAT scheme- one finds that many people in dire circumstances are dependent on receiving or are hopeful that they will receive an affirmative answer to their applications. But in my electorate at least, the processing of applications under the NEAT scheme is running months behind. These people can do no other planning as to what they will try to achieve for themselves. They have no idea when an answer will come. Looking at the Department of Social Security, one finds that when people in receipt of pensions move from one State to another the transfer of their pension entitlements takes some months. I wish to make the point constructively and sincerely that much of the administration of areas of our social welfare services, be it unemployment benefits, NEAT applications or other forms of pensions, is in a mess. It would greatly help people in need if they could get speedy answers, or answers at all, to some of their problems. I think many ordinary people are losing faith in the Canberra colossus of Government departments. Unless pressure is applied by somebody no result will be obtained. I think that the average person feels that damage is being done in social welfare areas particularly in a time of need. 
I support what previous speakers on this side have said about scandals in the payment of unemployment benefits. One of the better known ones, and one that has been publicised in the newspapers from time to time, involves interstate truck drivers who, as well as having a job- a well-paid job- register for unemployment benefits at the start and end of their interstate truck runs. For example, a man driving from Melbourne to Adelaide registers in Melbourne and in Adelaide and obtains benefits in both places. 
At the present time there is no junior unemployment rate. Once a person turns 16 years he goes on the adult rate. I believe this is leading to considerable social injustice. The Opposition Parties believe that there should be a reduced rate of unemployment benefit for juniors between 1 6 and 1 8 years of age. At the present time some apprentices are receiving less in take-home pay than they would receive if they were on unemployment benefits. This country needs apprentices as much or more than any other group of people. I know of 16-year-olds in my electorate giving up their jobs because the money available to them to spend if they work is less than if they do not work and receive the unemployment benefit. They are made figures of fun by their friends of the same age group, who ask: 'Why should you work when we can play around all day and be better off financially for it?' This problem was mentioned by the honourable member for Hotham. Not only are young people developing an attitude to life which is not conducive to playing a constructive working role in our society, but also a complete social injustice is being done to the vast majority of young people who want to do something for themselves and for the country. 
One of the problems associated with malpractices in the payment of unemployment benefits is the question of identification. False names can be used. It is hard to check them. We do not have an identity card system. It is quite common for people to obtain a driving licence when they reach 18 years of age. Perhaps drivers' licences could be used to identify people. I will welcome any criticism from speakers opposite on the points I make. Medibank cards will be available to everybody in the future. The question is whether they should be used as some form of identification of persons registering for unemployment benefits so that false names cannot be used, or at least double applications can be detected more easily than they can at the present time. 
The availability or proximity of an office of the Department of Social Security or Commonwealth Employment Service affects people in gaining satisfaction from Government departments. I congratulate the Government on the establishment of a number of new offices for both the Commonwealth Employment Service and the Department of Social Security. I and other members have been told, in answers to questions, where these offices have been established. I am afraid I must say that more of them have been established in metropolitan areas than in country areas. I want to give an example of the problem that people in my electorate face. Mine is a rural electorate, small in area. Echuca and the surrounding districts, which extend into 2 States, have a population of 20 000 to 30 000 people. The nearest office of the Department of Social Security to Echuca is 50 miles away, in either Shepparton or Bendigo. Anybody who has any trouble in Echuca has to pay a very high trunk call charge to telephone either of these offices. Very little public transport exists and it is expensive. 
Generally people in country areas are of a higher average age than elsewhere and it has been pointed out that unemployment and other problems in relation to welfare are generally greater in the country than in the city. Country people are severely disadvantaged in their ability to contact an office and get some sort of satisfaction. I am pleased to say that the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has agreed to the establishment of a Commonwealth Employment Service office in Echuca but so far the Department of Social Security has not agreed to establish an office there. This is just one example of a situation which exists in many country areas. 
I note also that the legislation provides for benefits and pensions to be credited to permanent building society accounts. Initially this will apply only in respect of child endowment. I am reminded of a debate which I think concerned the same subject of increases in pensions and which took place in this House about 8 months ago. I asked the Minister for Social Security what was happening with the suggestion that pensions and benefits be paid into bank accounts. I think such a method of payment would be of some value both to efficiency within the Department and to the beneficiaries, particularly those people who are now receiving pensions free of means test. I was told that either the system was already available or it soon would be. On checking with the Department of Social Security today I was told that it is still not available. I hope that the brave words of the Minister in his second reading speech, indicating that the payment of benefits to the credit of permanent building society accounts will be introduced, will be borne out a little more quickly than has the suggestion of making payment of benefits to the credit of bank accounts. Also, in the move to make payments to the credit of permanent building society accounts I hope that a similar arrangement in respect of bank accounts will not be overlooked. 
Will pensioners actually be any better 00 The Minister stated in his second reading speech that the basic pension of $36 per week will represent 24.5 per cent of average weekly male earnings in the December quarter. As the honourable member for Hotham quickly and correctly pointed out, as at the commencement date for the payment of the new rates in May, the pension as a percentage of average weekly male earnings has been reduced to 21.1 per cent. Let us extend the argument a Utile further. There will not be another increase in the pension for 5 months. This will occur on 1 October. This is the usual procedure following on the Budget. What percentage of average weekly male earnings will the basic penison be in October when inflation is roaring on in this country at the present rate? I suggest it will be lower than has ever been the case under any government, either LiberalCountry Party or Labor, since the war. If any Government supporter is brave enough to say that it will not be so, I would like him to challenge me on that figure. 
One should add also to this the fact that many people are now taxed on their pensions whereas previously they were not. This applies to those people in the 65 to 70 years age group. These people will be even worse off as the rate of pension increases and they move into a higher tax bracket. Everyone knows the effect of moving into a higher tax bracket: In many cases the increase in taxation is greater than the increase in income. 
I turn to the supplementary benefits and dependent children's allowances. One of these payments is increased in this Bill. I think it is conceded generally that the areas of greatest need concern pensioners at the lowest level of income who either need rent assistance or have dependent children. We heard brave words in the Minister's second reading speech about an 80 per cent increase in the basic pension. However, it could not be said that there has been an 80 per cent increase in supplementary benefits or dependent children's allowances since Labor came to power. Why not? Surely these are the people in the area of greatest need; these are the people who should have received the greatest increases. So one cannot say that this group of pensioners is any better off. They will be worse off. 
But there is still the question: Are pensioners worse off? The major point against this Government is that inflation ruins people's savings. All the old people are having their savings reduced overnight by the ravages of widespread and galloping inflation. So to me it is absurd for this Government to claim that generally pensioners are better off now than they ever have been. 
I refer to a specific inequality or injustice which I see in the legislation. It arises in respect of the phasing out of the transitional benefit in respect of aged blind persons, 65 years and over, receiving a pension. Since 1953 any blind person has received a means test-free, tax-free pension. With the free of means test age pension in respect of people 75 years and over, and now 70 years and over, coming into effect, together with the taxing of pensions in respect of people 65 years and over, an inequality is created. This was recognised by the Government and a transitional benefit of $3 per week was introduced to make up for the fact that the pensions of blind people aged 65 years and over would now be taxed. 
The transitional benefit is to be phased out by this piece of legislation. We will have the absurd injustice and inequality of a blind person who between 16 and 65 years of age receives a pension free of means test and free of tax but whose pension will be taxed the moment he or she turns 65 years of age. So at an age when blind people have greater financial problems and commitmentsand I think that this would automatically be accepted- they will actually receive a lower pension than what they received before. The Government cannot say that it is unaware of this position because I have correspondence which has been sent by the National Council for the Blind, which is an association for the blind, to various Treasurers of this Government pointing out this anomoly 
I believe that the Government injustice should do one of 2 things: It should continue to make the pension received by blind persons completely tax free throughout their lives and not just to the age of 65; or if that produces problems in the Taxation Office, the transitional benefit of $3 a week should be continued permanently if that is the amount required to make up for the taxation that is levied on them. 
The legislation still leaves other problems of weakness. A major problem concerns single fathers who have been deserted, widowed or divorced. There are more than 20 000 fathers with dependent children in this category in Australia. I believe that the special benefit is not appropriate to this group of people. A different type of benefit is required because unlike the supporting mother- the widow or the divorceewho generally stays at home and needs income, the single father for a variety of reasons goes out to work and needs supportive services in the home. The means test will disqualify a man in this category because of the income he earns. I think that we need to look at the problems of single fathers in a different way altogether and provide something for their children, certainly up to a certain level of income. 
There is also the general inequality of the means test itself. There are 2 scales- the income scale and the assets scale. The assets scale is set so that there is a notional return of 10 per cent on any assets. Who in this period of depressed returns for investments could say that 10 per cent is a figure that is achieved. I believe that only one scale should be subject to means test and that is a scale based on actual income received whether it is income from the work that a person does or income as a return on investment. I understand that this system is used in some other countries. This is particularly desirable if one can accept what the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow)  has said, namely, that the abolition of the means test for people between 65 and 70 years of age may not happen immediately but is more likely to take place over a period of 5 years. If this is the case this area of inequality will continue for some time unless something is done to straighten out the application of the means test. 
The major argument against the Government, its attitude to welfare and its so-called concern with the ordinary Australian is none of the points that I have made, valid though they are. The major argument is the triple evils that this Government has brought to this country, namely the evils of inflation, unemployment and excessive taxation, all of which are greater now than at any time in our history. 
The consumer price index shows that cost of living increased by 17.6 per cent in the last 12 months. Federal Government income, which is derived mainly from taxation, for the last 12 months increased by a staggering 43 per cent. Unemployment now stands at 4.7 per cent which is the highest percentage since the depression. What does this mean to the savings of the average Australian the stability of our society or the dignity of work? No matter what this Government does by this Bill or any other piece of legislation, the overall result of the Government's actions to ordinary Australians is a dangerous reduction in the welfare of the people of this country. What is even more depressing is that the future heralds even more depression because of increased inflation, unemployment and excessive taxation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
What meetings on the establishment of an international grain reserve have been attended by Australian representatives. 
What decisions were reached at the meeting held in London on 10 and 1 1 February 1975. 
3 ) Have any further meetings been held since then. 
Have consumer as well as exporter countries been represented at these meetings. 
Have any special proposals been presented to the OPEC countries to encourage them to support a special reserve for certain needy countries. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
Was Australia represented at the UNCTAD Conference on Raw Materials held in Geneva in February. 
If, so, who were the Australian representatives, and in what raw materials or commodities did Australia show special interest. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) Can the Minister say whether the New Zealand Dairy Board has signed or is about to sign a contract with the Government of Iran for a school milk program for 5 million Iranian school children? 
What sales have Australian dairy companies made to Iran and what hope is there for Australia's inclusion in the Iranian school milk program? 
Was the Minister able to obtain any assurance of sales of dairy products to Middle East countries on his recent tour to match those obtained by New Zealand with Iran or Egypt? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) How many Navy patrol boats are currently assigned to the surveillance of the northern and western coasts of Australia, and where are they based. 
How long is the maximum sailing time required to reach any part of this coast from where the boats are based. 
How long is the sailing time required to cover the Ashmore Reef and any other designated area from the closest patrol boat base, and where is that base. 
asked the Minister for Police and Customs, upon notice: 
How many Visualtek Read Write System units have been imported. 
How many of these were exempted from the 34 per cent import duty and 1 5 per cent sales tax. 
asked the Minister for Police and Customs, upon notice: 
Prior to the recent publicity over the excessive lead content in paint on imported toys, were officers of his Department instructed to check the paint content of these toys to ensure that the National Health and Medical Research Council recommendation was not exceeded. 
If not, had any requests been received from other Australian or State Government Departments or private organisations or companies that this be done. 
If not, have any requests now been received from any of those mentioned in pan (2) for this to be done. 
Have any instructions now been issued to this effect by him. 
asked the Minister for .Science, upon notice: 
What research is the CSIRO undertaking or sponsoring into the European Carp menace. 
What State or Australian Government bodies, Members of Parliament, or interested organisations have requested this research. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
1 ) What research is his Department conducting or sponsoring in relation to the water hyacinth menace. 
What requests for research have been received from State Government departments or private organisations. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What research is being conducted into a vaccine against Australian arbo-encephalitis, and with what result. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Does his Department intend to provide information brochures, for all international air travellers arriving in Australia, to explain to them the reason for aircraft disinfection and general quarantine requirements so that their greater co-operation can be assured. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has he received any representations from blind peoples' organisations for restoration of the means test free and tax free pension previously enjoyed by blind people aged 65 and over. 
What action is proposed by the Government on this matter. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Dairy Produce Board milk reconstitution plant at Phnom Penh managed to continue in operation until at least the last 2 weeks. 
Will the Minister use his influence to guarantee the safety of the factory, the safety of Australian personnel attached to it, and its future operation. 
Will the Minister also use his influence to ensure that stocks of milk powder held up on Melbourne wharves for some months and needed urgently by the factory will be shipped to the Khmer Republic to provide essential food for children in that country. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Did the RSPCA approach the Natural Disasters Organisation immediately after the Darwin Cyclone and offer a team of trained personnel to take control of all animals in the devastated area. 
Was this offer and were later offers rejected; if so, why. 
If the position is as stated, will there be early consultation between the two organisations so that there will be cooperation in the future. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
1 ) How many manual exchanges were converted to automatic in each of the States in each of the years 1971-72, 1972-73 and 1973-74. 
How many were converted for the first 6 months of 1974-75, and how many are programmed for completion by the end of this financial year. 
How many remain to be converted after this financial year, and how many of these are programmed for conversion in each of the next 2 financial years. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
What meetings with what other countries have taken place on the world beef trade situation. 
What progress has been achieved, and what are the major problem areas. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What sum was allocated to the States (a) in 1973-74 and (b) to 1 April in 1974-75 for flood relief and reconstruction under the Commonwealth-States arrangement. 
How much of the money provided to Victoria has been in response to that State's request for relief following the Goulburn, Broken and Murray Rivers floods of May 1 974. 
If no money has been provided, has Victoria applied for any money for the affected areas along those three rivers, particularly for levee bank and road repairs. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will tax deductibility be allowed for each of the following items once the medical and hospital sections of the Government's health insurance proposals are in operation: (a) private medical insurance to cover the 15 per cent consultation gap if the doctor does not bulk bill, (b) private medical insurance to cover consultation fees beyond the 15 per cent if more than the most common fee is charged, (c) private hospital insurance for intermediate or private ward cover, (d) private medical insurance to cover the additional cost of medical attention by a patient's own doctor in hospital as in paragraphs (a) and (b), (e) private hospital insurance to cover any possible additional bed charge where a patient's own doctor is retained and (f) direct cash payment to cover any of the above medical or hospital charges. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the Visualtek Read Write System is levied 15 per cent sales tax unless the unit is used on the premises of a recognised blind people's association. 
If so, does this discriminate against people who are unable, for geographic or physical reasons, to attend these centres. 
What action has he taken towards the abolition of the sales tax and import duty on this System. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
Has his Department conducted any research or supported research by others into the control and eradication of European Carp. 
Have any requests been received from State Departments for assistance in the control of this fish. 
-There are a number of interesting aspects to the inclusion of optometrical benefits in the health insurance scheme. In commenting on some aspects of the Bill, first of all I congratulate the Government on the inclusion of optometrical benefits, because this is a long overdue- 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  put: 
That the question be now put. 

 -Mr Speaker- 

Motion ( by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the  question  be now put. 
-Further to the brief comments I was allowed to make earlier when I was saying that I agreed with the inclusion of the optometrical benefits- 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many (a) public, (b) intermediate and (c) private ward beds were there in each hospital in Canberra on (i) 1 April 1975 and (ii) 1 October 1974. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the average delay in the processing of pharmaceutical benefit scripts in each State. 
In which States is the delay (a) growing or (b) being reduced. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) In which States is the progress or initial payment system operating for the payment of pharmaceutical benefit scripts. 
What percentage of pharmacists in each of these States uses the arrangement. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it the intention of the Government to move the National Biological Standards Laboratory to Geelong; if so, when. 
In how many buildings in the A.C.T. and Queanbeyan are the various segments of the Laboratory presently located. 
Does the Government agree that this is an unsatisfactory situation, and that some of the offices are overcrowded and sub-standard. 
When will satisfactory centralised accommodation be provided in Canberra for this organisation. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is it considered that there should be more non-smoking rows of seats in large commercial aircraft, such as DC or 727's operating in Australia; if so, what action has he taken in the matter. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. In his reply to the honourable member for Scullin on Tuesday last, he referred to paragraph 4.2 of the White Paper on health insurance, indicating that maternity patients will be able to have their own doctor and not be charged the $30 a day as private patients. I ask the following questions for the purpose of clarification: Will the hospital have to appoint a general practitioner to the sessional staff before he will be accepted under this arrangement, as the White Paper appears to indicate? As a large percentage of women use a specialist rather than a general practitioner, will the same arrangement apply to a specialist? Will this concession end once the baby is delivered and will the woman then have to elect to be a private patient paying $30 a day for the postconfinement period in the hospital if her own doctor is to be retained? Finally, how will the baby be classified, particularly if it requires specialist pediatric attention and if there is no hospital salaried pediatrician. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
1 ) What voluntary organisations have requested financial assistance from his Department for the establishment or maintenance of a federal headquarters. 
What has been the response to the requests. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
What was the tonnage of pig meat imports into Australia for each of the last 3 years. 
What was the form of these imports e.g. canned or frozen, hams, shoulders or rashers. 
3 ) What duty or other tax was charged on these imports. 
What was the landed price for the various types of pig meat in 1973-74. 
Can the Minister say whether any government price support was provided in the country of origin. 
-I wish to discuss a serious problem arising from the report of the Temporary Assistance Authority on precision ball-bearings, dated 4 March 1975. I want to highlight the way in which certain countries, particularly Japan, exploit the open and honest tariff protection system in this country. I want to contrast that with the way in which that country acts when its industries are threatened. I want to explain the way in which the Japanese ball-bearing industry has effectively nullified the report of the Temporary Assistance Authority and, after its acceptance by the Government, the quota restrictions for the 12 months from March 1974 to March 1975 for reasonable protection for Echuca type ball-bearings. No criticism is made or implied of the Department of Manufacturing Industry or its Minister, the Department of the Special Minister of State or its Minister, the Temporary Assistance Authority, the Industries Assistance Commission, this Government or the previous Government. I want to thank the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  as the Minister responsible for this area, for coming into the House tonight. 
The efficiency of the Australian ball-bearing industry is not at issue in this matter, nor is the question of whether or not there should be a ballbearing industry in Australia. I believe that there should be; others argue the other way, but that is not the point. The Temporary Assistance Authority by its decision has, at least until the Industries Assistance Commission report later this year, stated in effect that there should be an industry in Australia, that it should have reasonable protection and that the employment rights of Australians in this industry should be protected. The factory of the SKF Ball Bearing Co. (Aust.) Pty Ltd at Echuca is the only complete manufacturer of ball-bearings in Australia. It was originally a Department of Supply factory established during the Second World War. It manufactures a limited range of ball-bearings, almost half of which go into original automotive equipment. 
Recently, 2 Japanese companies- the NSK company and Australia Koyo Ltd- commenced fabrication but not complete manufacture of bearings in this country. Those companies are also importers and there is a third Japanese company which is a large importer. The total market for ball-bearings in Australia is about 20 million ball-bearings a year. The Echuca type, or the competitive range of 9 mm to 45 mm size bearings, accounts for about 1 1 million of the 20 million total market. SKF produces about twothirds of the local ball-bearings. Local production in this sector of the ball-bearing market has dropped from 71 per cent in 1972-73 to 47 per cent in the first 6 months of this financial year. In 1973 a voluntary restraint agreement was reached with the Japanese. It was actually reached by the previous Government in late 1 972. That was for a voluntary restraint mechanism to be in operation during the calendar year 1973. Basically, this was an arrangement between SKF and the 4 Japanese producers. This was to provide a reasonable balance between imports and Australian produced ball-bearings for 1973. 
By late 1973 it was obvious that the Japanese were circumventing the agreement by shipping in bearings from subsidiary companies in Taiwan. So, although technically they were abiding by the voluntary agreement, they were nicely circumventing it. The Japanese were not interested in renewing the agreement at the beginning of 1974 and rapidly increased their exports to Australia in this competitive area. By the end of 1974 imports were at twice the rate at the start of the year, aided by the 25 per cent tariff cut in 1973. So, a combination of double the number of imports with a downturn in local demand resulted in an increase in stocks of Echuca type ball-bearings in this country of 2.7 million bearings in the calendar year 1974. In mid-November 1974 SKF applied to the Department of Manufacturing Industry for protection, after the management several weeks earlier had discussed this matter with the then Minister for Manufacturing Industry. The Department of 
Manufacturing Industry immediately notified the Japanese companies concerned and asked for their comment, as is the correct procedure. 
After ascertaining that there was a case for protection, the Department recommended to the Department of the Special Minister of State that a case be heard. On 3 February this year this was conducted after instructions had been given by the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  who is at the table. The Temporary Assistance Authority agreed that there was a sound case and quotas for that part of the market in competition were introduced on 1 March for 12 months. Meanwhile, SKF and its staff- I pay credit to both the management and the staff at SKFdecided to start work this year 6 working days later in an attempt to reduce the stock pile and by agreement through the month of May the staff has worked a 4-day week. This has occurred at a time when the employment at the SKF factory has dropped by 25 per cent in 2 years. From the moment the Department of Manufacturing Industry notified the Japanese companies in November, they started to flood the Australian market. This is shown up in the figures for January and February 1975, which are usually 2 slack months for such imports. They have flooded the market to the extent that, even with the restrictions that are now in force, the stock pile of unsold ball-bearings in this country will be greater at the end of 1975 than it was at the beginning of 1975.  Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard an estimate of the changing position- growing stock pile position of ball-bearings in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
With reference to the reply by the Minister for Transport to Question No. 1936, is his Department satisfied with the results obtained at Perth Airport although that airport lacks a satisfactory incinerator. 
When will an incinerator be constructed at Perth Airport. 
Which of the seaports, presently without an incinerator, referred to in the reply to Question No. 18S are to have one constructed, and when. 
-If anybody should be on trial in the Parliament today for misleading the public of Australia on matters relating to health it should be the Government. Never has there been such a campaign of deception waged against people concerning their future health requirements and needs in this country than that engaged in by this Government over the last 12 months. The honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun),  in one of the few points he made in his tirade against the private health funds, spoke about the belated action by the private health funds in advising contributors about the situation after 1 July. He said it was only several weeks ago that notification was given and that this should have been done earlier. This is quite interesting because until a certain document came from the Department of Social Security to the private health funds it was completely impossible for the health funds to know what would be the rules of the game after 1 July. I refer to a circular entitled: 
Australian Government Department of Social Security Conduct of Private Health Insurance after 30 June 1975. 
This circular was sent to all health funds. It is dated April 1975. Looking at the day on which it was dated, let alone at the day on which it got to those organisations, how could people have more time to know what would be the situation when the organisations themselves were not told by the Government. So the charge about the private health funds misleading the contributors falls flat and is thrown right back in the honourable member's face because the Government has not given the health funds the rules of the game to be played. To add to the confusion which private health funds must be under in relation to the situation on 1 July, one has to refer to an article which appeared in the Melbourne 'Age' on 22 
April by Michael Smith, the medical reporter under the heading of: 
Medibank: What it Will Save Insurers. 
The article states: 
People will have to insure for $39 a day in private hospitals compared to $30 a day for a private ward in public hospitals. 
This is after 1 July. Apart from discrimination against people in private hospitals this adds to the confusion of health funds. That statement has not been refuted or corrected in any way by the Government. Will there have to be 2 levels of insurance by private health funds in relation to a person who decides he wants to go into a private ward in a public hospital or a similar ward in a private hospital? There is a difference of $9 a day in the actual charge. Once again the Government has been misleading the people. It has not told the health funds or anybody what will be the real situation. What is the position of taxation deductions for people after 1 July? The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  very correctly and, I believe, cleverly, drew this matter to the attention of the public today when he contrasted the contradiction between the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)-  that is the Minister at the moment- and the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  In a number of replies the Minister for Social Security has given to various people both in writing and in public statements he has pointed out a whole range of insurable items which the health funds could have after 1 July and which would be tax deductible. Yet the present Treasurer, who is soon to be the Minister for Social Security, gave another answer to a question which I placed on notice on 2 1 May. I put 8 questions before the Treasurer and asked whether certain items would be tax deductible after 1 July. These were very important items for the health insurance funds, contributors and the people of Australia to know about. The Treasurer's answer was as follows: 
The honourable member's question raises issues of policy with respect to which the Government's intentions will be made known at the appropriate time. 
What a farce; what a misleading of the public; what a sham when we have the Minister for Social Security saying one thing and the Treasurer saying a completely different thing. I hope that when the portfolios of these Ministers are reversed, their statements on these matters will not also be reversed. 
For the last 12 months the Government has embarked on a Goebbels-like attempt to mislead the Australian public in relation to the state of the health funds of this nation. The Government has worked on the assumption that if a charge is repeated often enough the people will believe it. That is the basis on which the Government has operated and also the basis on which this discussion of a sham matter of public importance is raised. 
What about the excessive reserve funds which the health funds were supposed to hold? That charge was repeated day after day in this Parliament and in Press statements. Two health funds in New South Wales took up the challenge. They took the Government to court and won their case. There was no such thing as excessive reserve funds being held. 
I turn next to the question of long waiting time for rebate payments for health insurance contributors. In the last few weeks, question after question in Dorothy Dix fashion has been asked in this House on this topic. The reply has been that the situation is terrible and that contributors must wait several weeks before rebate moneys are received but that when Medibank comes into operation rebates will be received within 5 days of lodging a claim. The Government must have far more confidence in the ability of Medibank to repay rebates within 5 days than the chemists of this country have- or than the Department of Health itself has- in the ability in the Department of Health to repay pharmaceutical benefits scripts in 5 days. 
Let us look at the record of the Government in this other area of health repayments. At the present time the average chemist in Australia is waiting more than 5 weeks for the repayment of minor pharmaceutical benefits items. Those items are minor when compared to the items on which Medibank payments will be made. If a repatriation script is involved, the wait is up to 2 months. What a farce it is to say that one Government section will be able to provide rebates within 5 days when another section of the Government is failing so miserably to do so. 
Further to this point about repayments being made within 5 days, I refer to an interesting article in the 'West Australian' of 9 May which states: 
Cash payments from Medibank offices in WA would be limited to about $75 when the scheme started on July 1, the State manager of Medibank,  Mr Alan  Keating said yesterday. 
On the one hand we are told that rebates will be received within 5 days of lodging a claim, that people will get them immediately, on the other hand we are told that these repayments will be limited to$75. If a person is exercising his or her right as a private patient with a private ward, bearing in mind the charges that would be levelled against that person in that ward, that person will need more than $75 before this scheme has been underway for very long. I nearly said what a misconception that was. What a deception, I should say. The whole scheme is misconceived. But what a deception is this example of how people will receive rebates in respect of medical or hospital expenditure. 
I refer next to the claim by the Government that it will end discrimination in hospitals with the introduction of Medibank. All that the Government is doing is introducing discrimination in respect of those people who believe that they have a right as Australians in a free society to be treated by their own doctor and to have the hospital ward accommodation of their preference. The honourable member for Hotham referred to the case of one of the former shadow ministers of the Labor Party disowning the Government on this very issue. I refer to  Mr Allan  Fraser who said that it was never the intention of the Labor Party to discriminate against the person who exercises his or her right to be a private patient. That is exactly what the Government is doing in terms of this scheme. The Government claims with respect of midwifery cases that the woman patient will have the choice of her own doctor. That doctor will be available only if there is a sessional arrangement for him in the State concerned. There are doubts about specialists. Complete doubt exists about the situation after the post-confinement period as well as in cases where a pediatrician is needed for a child. Allan Fraser is on record in these respects also. 
Today, in its editorial, the 'Canberra Times' has charged this Government with misleading the Australian public as the Government will discriminate against Australians who wish to have the right to have their own doctor. I quote from the editorial: 
The inevitable upshot is that from July 1, when the Medibank scheme becomes effective, there will be serious complications both for hospital administrators and for their patients- 
So the editorial goes on. 
I agree that I have read the wrong quotation. The next point that I was about to make was whether the scheme would actually be underway after 1 July. 
I would, but there is not time. Let us look at the claim of no discrimination. We have not been told yet- the State Ministers for 
Health are worried about this aspect- whether a person who has the temerity to go into a private ward of his .or her own accord will receive less cover and be charged far more than the public patient, and probably far more in a private hospital, or whether there will be no medical rebate for radiology or pathology services. How does this situation relate to the suggestion that the Government is ending discrimination in hospitals in Australia? The Government is just introducing a new form of discrimination. 
What will be the position in country hospitals? Country people have been misled. Complete confusion exists in country areas of Australia at present as to what will happen in country hospitals after 1 July. We have the interesting case in Victoria where somebody came down from Canberra thinking that bush nursing hospitals were only health centres in Victoria and did not have beds. That person found that the situation was completely different from what he had expected. The position in that respect also is completely confused. What about the hospital construction program in which the Government will build hospitals to provide huge numbers of beds which, under Medibank, will be utilised to a greater degree than beds are used at present in providing services to people? We have now been informed that as a result of a conference of State Health Ministers the hospital construction program will be cut. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is now concluded. 
-The purpose of this Bill is to change the powers and membership of the Australian Dairy Produce Board and to change its name to the Australian Dairy Corporation. As the leader for this side, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  said, the Opposition supports the legislation. The changes to the powers of the Board or Corporation, what ever one likes to call it, were first considered before the Liberal-Country Party Government lost office. They were well under way. It surprises me that it has taken so long for this matter to surface; nevertheless it has surfaced. In the time it has taken to surface it is quite evident that the membership of the proposed Corporation has been altered on a number of occasions. 
When one looks at the original intention, one is concerned at the way in which the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  wanted to set himself up basically as the czar over the whole industry, so that he, through his powers in 2 ways, with this new Corporation, would be able to control the industry. The first proposal was for a corporation of 10 members- 3 farmers, 2 manufacturers, but five members appointed by the Government, with the  chairman  having a casting vote. That meant that the nominees of the Minister would have had control over the whole Corporation. That was a most disturbing attempt by the Minister. The second proposal related to the method of appointment. None of these men is actually elected to the Corporation. All are appointed by the Minister. Hence this feeling of concern that the Minister wanted to control the whole show. In some cases he appoints them direct; in others he appoints them from a panel. I believe that the Minister's attitude shows that he has had little regard for the industry. When one hears some of the criticism of the industry from the Government side of the House one realises that honourable members opposite have little knowledge of or regard for the industry either. 
The dairy industry in Australia is the second most efficient dairy industry in the world. I think it would be conceded that on average New Zealand would be more efficient. Victorians would argue this because they consider that they would be at least as efficient as New Zealand. New Zealand has certain natural advantages and certain government advantages that we do not have here. It is also sometimes argued that the dairy industry has received a lot of government assistance. The amount of assistance it is receiving now is nil. When one looks at the level of assistance even at the time of government subsidy in other measures one sees that there is still less assistance for the dairy industry in this country than there is for the dairy industry in any other country, and that includes New Zealand. 
If we were the Government it would never have been taken off, so do not let us talk about those silly things. Also from the Government side one hears about adjustment, as though adjustment in the dairy industry magically started after December 1972. This does less than credit to the dairy industry. When one reads the statistics of the dairy industry in Australia over the last 25 years one sees the tremendous flexibility within the industry in numbers of dairy farmers, in types of products, in rationalisation of factories and in the movement of the whole industry itself. One sees what a very flexible and efficient industry it has been, and the power that it has within itself for adjustment. 
Let me come back to the point at issue herethe membership of the Corporation and how the Minister wanted to dominate the Corporation at the initial stage. Due to pressure from within the industry, the membership of the Corporation was increased to eleven. This was done by giving the manufacturers a third representative, and this made it impossible then for those directly appointed by the Minister to have the majority. It would be incorrect to say that at the present time the composition of the Corporation is what the industry actually wants. The industry is giving a grudging acceptance because the Minister has pronounced that it either gets this or nothing. The industry itself actually wants 4 dairy farmer representatives. This point was made by the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair).  The industry is also unhappy about the method of the appointment of the  chairman  of the Corporation. 
It agreed to 3 dairy farmer representatives under pressure because it was told it was either that or nothing. In the past the  chairman  of the Board, as it then was, was appointed from within the industry after the industry had put forward a panel of names, and the industry would Uke this procedure to continue. Under the provisions of this Bill the Minister will have so much direct control over who will be the members of the Corporation that a great responsibility lies with him to ensure that the best members are chosen. This means not only the best people as such but also that the diverse interests of the industry throughout Australia are adequately represented. 
The dairy industry does face certain problems at the present time. These are due partly to the vagaries of the world market and partly to action by the Labor Government. One of the points that Labor has made from time to time about what it will do for farming is that it will increase income stability The Green Paper makes reference to this aspect and I understand there is a commitee supposedly looking into it. This is one of the big things that Labor is doing or is supposed to be doing, but when one looks at the action taken by the Labor Government in the dairy industry the picture is seen to be the reverse. Action taken by the Labor Government has actually reduced the income stability in the dairy industry. When talking about income stability in the dairy industry there are 2 key words- stabilisation and equalisation. Equalisation was to a certain extent buttressed by the stabilisation arrangements through payments of the dairy bounty. Under this legislation dairy payments made from 1 July will be reduced by at least  2Vic  per lb because the final withdrawal of the subsidy takes place on that date and with it the pressures on equalisation will increase. Equalisation is the only buttress for income stability in the industry. 
With the present fall in world prices there has been a dramatic build-up in skim milk powder stocks around the world. The recent United Kingdom Budget, by significantly reducing consumer subsidies, particularly for dairy products from f 600m to f 450m- in Australia these would be called producer subsidies- will increase these pressures because one of the things that the subsidy system did in the United Kingdom was to increase the uptake of dairy products, particularly butter and cheese. Through the European Economic Community this meant that any surplus situation was less likely to develop. These pressures will now increase. Equalisation certainly must remain as the cornerstone of any form of income stability in the dairy industry, but that does not mean that there should not be flexibility within the equalisation arrangements. In the past there has not been adequate flexibility within the equalisation arrangements to allow incentives for people producing a different type of product within Australia to be able to produce that product and to market it. In my electorate is probably the most diverse cheese manufacturing plant in Australia, the Girgarre cheese factory, which is substantially reducing the variety of cheese it makes because under the equalisation arrangements the return for the butter skim milk mix is greater than for the cheese mix. I think this is an absurd situation to have in this country. 
The honourable member for Eden-Monaro made some rather interesting remarks. He said that he thought there should be more power in the legislation to enable the responsible Minister to guide factories as to what they should produce. That statement is fairly interesting, if not absurd, when one thinks of what has happened in the past in respect of all those people, whether they were in the Government resource section or in the private sector or the dairy industry, who have made predictions about what would happen in future markets. I think one can confidently say that everybody has been wrong and everybody will continue to be wrong because of the complex arrangements of international marketing, weather conditions and so on. The honourable member also said that he thought the Minister could guide the factory managers because they do not know about future markets. From my knowledge of the dairy industry, which I think is considerably greater than the honourable member's knowledge, the dairy factory managers probably know more than anybody else about what is likely to happen in terms of future markets. This suggestion also raises the interesting question that if the Minister has the power or is given the power to guide factories or to dictate to factories what they should produce and that guidance or dictation is wrong, will the Government then support the industry when there is an excessive build-up of stocks? 
The honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin)  referred to resource allocation as if the dairy industry in Australia had used available resources less efficiently than had industries in other countries. He referred to the New Zealand dairy industry but he did not say that that industrywhich is cited in this country quite frequently as being without subsidy and as being somehow or other the acme of all dairy industriesreceives about $60m a year in subsidies at the present time. The dairy industry in Australia has never received half that amount. Taking account of the heavy usage of superphosphate which occurs in the dairy industries in both Australia and New Zealand, the subsidy provided by a Labor Government for superphosphate used in New Zealand becomes far more significant. The Labor Government in this country should look to what the Labor Government in New Zealand is doing for the agricultural sector there so as to take a lesson as to what is possible under a Labor Government with sensible allocation of assistance to various agricultural industries. It is held on the Government side that if you are government employee or if you work in a critical electoral area, like some of those in Adelaide with a good deal of motor vehicle employment, you can receive all the assistance in the world; but if you happen to live outside those areas in the great rural sectors of Australia you are not worth considering. Nevertheless, I support the legislation. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has he studied the 8 points put forward by  Mr Brian  Ell who has resigned as the pharmacist at Melba Health Centre. 
If so, will he arrange for an ordinary pharmacy to be established adjacent to the Centre rather than continue the present arrangement. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What research is being conducted into Huntington's Disease in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has a joint working party of the pharmaceutical industry and the Department been established to consider increased prices for pharmaceutical benefit items because of increased costs since prices were fixed. 
If so, who are the member of the committee, and how often has it met. 
Has an indexation arrangement been considered to move with inflation after the price of a drug has been set. 
asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
In what way does the National Advisory Council for the Handicapped co-ordinate the rehabilitation work of the Departments involved in this field, and allocate priorities of expenditure. 
How many people are employed by the Council, and where are they housed. 
What role does the Rehabilitation Division in his Department and the Standing Committee on Rehabilitation play in co-ordinatioin and allocation of priorities. 
How many people are employed in this Division, and who are the members of the Committee. 
If there is overall co-ordination, which Departments have been allocated which responsibilities. 
Who is responsible for safety, and what progress has been made. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many (a) public and (c) private ward beds are there at present in each hospital in the A.C.T., and what is the estimated population of the A.C.T. at this time. 
How many additional beds, and of what type, will be provided when the Woden Valley Hospital is fully operative, and what will be the estimated population at that time. 
How many additional beds, and of what type, will be provided by the Calvary Hospital. 
When- will the Calvary Hospital commence operation and what will be the estimated population of the A.C.T. at that time. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) When was prazosin first released in Australia for clinical trials for the treatment of hypertension. 
Has an application been made for approval to market and for listing as a pharmaceutical benefit; if so, when. 
Is the work of  Dr Kincaid-Smith  with the use of prazosin on 29S patients, as reported in the IS March 1975 edition of the Medical Journal of Australia, considered significant in the evaluation of this drug. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What was the interval of time between the date of lodgement of applications with the Department for approval to market Beclomethasone Dipropionate and the date approval was granted. 
What was the interval of time between the date of application for listing this product as a pharmaceutical benefit and the date it was listed. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
1 ) What voluntary organisations have requested financial assistance from his Department for the establishment or maintenance of a federal headquarters. 
What has been the response to the requests. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
When will cleft palate surgery be included in the Health Insurance Scheme. 
What other orthodontic procedures are being considered for inclusion. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many data processors are employed in each of the offices processing pharmaceutical benefit scripts, and how many additional operators would be needed in each of these offices to overcome the backlog. 
How many trainee operators are there in each of the offices, and are there enough of these not only to replace those who leave but also to overcome any shortage of trained operators. 
If there is a shortage of suitable personnel for training in the cities where offices are established, has he investigated the possibility of decentralised offices in large regional cities where there is significant female unemployment. 
-asked the Minister for Environment, upon notice: 
What research is his Department conducting or sponsoring in relation to the water hyacinth menace. 
What requests for research have been received from State Government departments or private organisations. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
How many persons in his department have been engaged in feasibility studies into the construction of Australian Government hospitals. 
How many are presently so engaged. 
What has been the cost to his Department of this work, and what fees have been paid to which architectural firms as detailed in the answer to question No. 1786. 
Are these architectural firms still doing hospital work for the Department. 
If so, what is the financial arrangement with them. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What is the accepted sampling and testing technique for residues in food used and/or recommended by the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
What is the recommended number of samples and apportionment of samples in these tests. 
For the testing of mercury levels in fish, should the samples be raw or cooked. 
If the maximum permissible level of mercury is0.5 PPM on a raw or wet basis, what is likely to happen if the test is conducted in cooked fish. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1) What research is being conducted, and by whom and at what cost, into asthma in Australia. 
How much of this research is supported by Federal or State Government grants. 
What applications for assistance are at present before the Government. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has any orthodontic treatment been provided in the school dental program; if so, where, and of what type. 
Is it intended to provide orthodontic treatment to all school children under the scheme. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Will dentists or dental therapists be used in the school dental program for children over the age of 1 2. 
If dental therapists are to be used, can he say why New Zealand has decided against them and used dentists for this age group. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What steps are being taken to increase the number of dentists and orthodontists m Australia. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Why are dentists not permitted to prescribe appropriate drugs under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme. 
What recommendations at what meetings of what bodies have been made on this matter. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Was the Nursing Mothers' Association of Australia refused a community health grant; if so, why. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Why does the April edition of the Pharmaceutical Benefits Schedule restrict the use of the semi-synthetic penicillins Ampicillin, Epicillin and Amoxycillin as benefits but allows the unrestricted prescribing of the combination product of Trimethroprim and Sulphamethoxarole 
As the combination product is considered particularly with extended treatment, possibly to have serious side effects, has the Department s desire to obtain the cheapest product possibly endangered the health of many Australians. 
How will this decision affect the viability of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories as a producer of Ampicillin. 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Australian Broadcasting Commission received complaints that a film used in its schools program presents a biased view against natural feeding of babies? 
If so, what action is being taken to ensure that a more balanced view is presented? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is it possible for arthritis sufferers in Australia to be fitted with plastic or other types of artificial finger joints; if so, what is the average waiting time; if not, why not. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 2425 by the Minister for Police and Customs indicating that only 3 of the 10 Visualtek Read Write System units imported in the last 2 years were exempt from sales tax, why were not the other 7 also exempt. 
What are the criteria for exemption. 
What representations have been received requesting total exemption. 
Will total exemption be granted. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What action has been taken by his Department to obtain monetary rebates from the United Kingdom makers of Intal, Lyndiol and Ovostat as recommended by the Joint Committee on Prices. 
What was the price of these preparations in (a) May 1973 and (b) May 1975. 
I basically support the resolution but I more particularly support the resolution as amended by the Senate which not only is in favour of a joint committee proceeding with plans for the new parliament house but also includes a reference to investigate and make recommendations in respect of the provision of better and reasonable facilities for members in the present building here and now. I do not believe that the Senate's amendment is contradictory. I believe that the acceptance of the suggested modification is necessary for 2 reasons. One is that no matter how quickly any committee proceeds there will be quite a time lag before a new parliament house is constructed. With the best will in the world I think it would be 10 to 1 5 years before members were able to move into the new parliament house. There is a time lag between the design specifications, the construction and the movement of members and staff to the new building. I would think that in some ways 10 to 15 years could be a conservative estimate. 
What is to happen to the ordinary members of Parliament who occupy this building? The facilities available to them will not improve in that time. Their work load is increasing. The membership of the House of Representatives is restricted to 127 at the present time. On many occasions while I have been a member of this House- I am sure that ordinary members who have, been here for much longer than I also have seen this- I have seen the rights of and the facilities available to the ordinary members come last in the list of priorities in what is actually provided in this building for those who occupy it. When one looks at other parliament houses and what is provided for members one can see the perhaps lavish provisions in the United States, but I will refer to Canada which is probably the most comparable country to Australia. In Canada a federal member represents about half the number of people that a federal member in this country represents. Every ordinary member of the Federal Parliament in Canada has a separate double office with a staff of two to assist him in his work, and he considers that to be by no means a generous provision. Yet ordinary members here, with twice the number of electors of Federal members in Canada generally, have no support facilities at all in this building. One sees room after room in this place occupied by two and even 3 members. 
I believe that the previous Government was neglectful in this area, just as it appears that the leadership of the present Government is being neglectful of the rights and privileges of the ordinary members of Parliament in this place. Putting to one side the Ministry and the facilities provided for it, if there is a restriction on space in this building then a reasonable requirement- as suggested in the Senate's amendment- is that ordinary members of Parliament should have first priority and that every other requirement for space in this building for the various officers and departments should come second. If the Parliament is to be the place for members of Parliament to carry out their duties rather than the place . for all the additional facilities and requirements that appear to have been tacked on over the years, then the rights of ordinary members of Parliament on both sides should come first. It is because of this time lag in processing details for and creating a new and permanent parliament house, even with the best will in the world, that I think it is important that this amendment of the Senate be agreed to so that something can be done. 
In reply to a question during question time today the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  laid stress on equality. I hope he will have a look at equality in this place and see the differences between the facilities available to himself and the Ministry and those available to ordinary members. I would say the same thing if my Party were in government because this was true when it was in office. When one talks about travelling economy class and equality, does it mean that as members of Parliament we are all to travel VIP? Does it mean that the Prime Minister also will travel economy class? One could also talk about travelling in Mercedes-Benz cars. I believe that the Senate 's amendment should be supported. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
How many complaints has he received from rural municipalities over reduced grants for rural local roads under the new Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement. 
Does the Government intend to increase the grant for this class of road. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has he received any requests from other Ministers or Departments or individuals for an increased number of nonsmoking seats in large commercial aircraft operating in Australia 
Has he discussed this matter with airline representatives. 
Do Australian airlines provide a smaller number of such seats than the international average for similar aircraft. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Does the Australian Department of Education or do any of the State Departments of Education belong to or attend conferences of Interskola, an international organisation studying the problems of education in sparsely populated rural areas. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) have the working party reports on hearing aids and spectacles not been released when the reports on home dialysis and ostomy appliances have been released. 
Why was a copy of the report on hearing aids given to the Industries Assistance Commission but not to Parliament. 
3 ) When is it proposed to release these reports. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Government about to introduce a free scheme for orthotics. 
If so, what appliances will be included, and what will be the criteria for receival of aid. 
Has the Australian Institute of Orthotists been consulted in this proposal; if not, why not. 
Will the private sector be allowed to continue to provide appliances under this scheme or will a Government factory do this work. 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1 ) What sum will be spent in each of the media on advertising the Government's community health centre program. 
Will this money be provided by the Department of Health, or is it part of a general allocation to promote Government policy. 
If the latter, has the Department been consulted. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What progress has been made since the answer to question No. 1 164 with the provision of a standard insulin syringe and needle. 
When a standard syringe is approved, will it be provided free of charge as a medical and surgical aid. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What research is being conducted into rheumatological diseases in Australia, sponsored by the National Health and Medical Research Council and other bodies, and at what annual cost. 
What problems have been encountered in the establishment of research programs. 
Does the Council have a strategy for the development of an adequate program. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Was the Reserve Bank instructed to restrict advances to the Australian Dairy Produce Board and to force the dairy factory co-operatives to borrow directly from the Bank rather than through the Board. 
If so, is the interest rate charged to these co-operatives by the Bank 0.5 per cent higher than if they could borrow all they needed through the Board. 
Has this margin been recently increased to 0.5 per cent higher when previously it was 0.25 per cent higher; if so, why. 
Has this instruction assisted the private and multinational dairy companies at the expense of the co-operatives. 
-The Minister for the Media  (Dr Cass)  in his second reading speech indicated that this Bill flows from a report of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices presented to Parliament in November 1973. On the basis of 3 preparations a general recommendation was made for the compulsory disclosure of individual cost of manufacturer by drug companies. As the report was presented in November 1973 it has had a long gestation. The Bill was given its first reading here in May and it again comes before the House, the implication being that the Bill is obviously not considered urgent by the Government. 
I think really the events that have taken place since the report on prices was presented indicate that in many ways the Government has changed its mind, that at that time it was very much in an ideological 'hit everything in private industry' phase. Now it appears to be relenting somewhat. But the Bill as it now stands gives frightening power to the Director-General of Health and through him to 3 unknown people in the Department of Health who form the pricing bureau and who decide what prices will be paid to drug manufacturers for prescription drugs dispensed under the national health scheme. In fact one could call the Director-General of Health a drug dictator when he received this power. The legislation would give him, or through him the pricing bureau, the power to make or break companies that could be employing thousands of people. It gives them the power to decide whether or not a company will continue in Australia. No other department, no other person to my knowledge, would have such power over people in this country, nor for that matter in this area of drug revelation and cost, in any other western country. 
The Government has not spelt out a clear requirement for this legislation. In fact some of its later actions have been contradictory. On the one hand it used to claim that the cost of drugs was too high. Now a committee has been established on an informal basis between the Department of Health and some of the drug manufacturers to look at the possibility of increasing drug prices because of the implications of bankruptcy and unemployment in the drug manufacturing field. 
The present situation was not explained to the Joint Committee on Prices at the time when it made its recommendation. I think that the extent of the knowledge available to the Depanment of Health is not generally known. There is a voluntary arrangement with the drug companies which I am told is gaining increasing acceptance. The present arrangement allows for a certain amount of give and take between the Department and companies in which the Department says: 'Well, we will let you have the price on this article but we want a cut in something else'. I believe this approach is better for the overall Australian community and the cost of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. 
The Department has available to it information from other countries. In particular it has available the cost of drugs from those countries which do not belong to the international patent convention. In other words, these countries do not support patent rights and offer drugs free of patent on the international market. The Department also has available to it information on the general wage level, the cost of packaging and manufacturing and so on. In addition to the Department of Health having this information available to it the Taxation Office has a special group which is investigating pharmaceutical companies. I understand that 28 of the major drug manufacturers in this country have had this special taxation team going right through their premises and books to ensure that there is no double dealing between an Australian offshoot of a foreign company- and certainly most of the major drug companies in Australia are multinationalsand to see that there is no double dealing in regard to transfer prices, technical arrangements or contractual arrangements of any kind. I believe that is right and proper, but I also believe that this indicates the degree of surveillance already provided to see that drugs sold to the Government through the pharmaceutical benefits arrangements are sold at a reasonable price. 
I would like to say something about the price  of drugs sold in Australia compared to the price in other countries. I have seen tables for Australia, the United States of America, Canada, Britain, West Germany and New Zealand which indicate that some of the prices we pay are above those paid in other countries, and some are less. I think that is probably a reasonable situation. Certainly Australia is not one of the most expensive drug countries in the world. If one looks at the cost of drugs to the Government under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme it can be seen that the actual cost of drugs has fallen by 16 per cent in the last 10 years. This has taken place during a time of rapid inflation. At a time when the actual cost of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme has escalated the cost of drugs has generally fallen. The Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  acknowledged this in his second reading speech on the National Health (Pharmaceutical Benefits Charges) Bill which he made in this House yesterday when he stated: 
Fortunately, the rises in the wholesale prices of drugs listed under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme have not been as great as for the more labour intensive health services. 
He is at least acknowledging that there have not been the runaway price increases. If one looks at the average cost of a prescription under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme, one will find that the actual percentage going to the drug manufacturer is failing. This is because the labour intensive sector of the total payment for the benefit, in particular the chemist, is rising because of our rapid inflation. 
There are some fundamental issues in this question of the revelation of drug costs. The first is whether we want Australian production of pharmaceuticals. Do we want the technology that this production in Australia brings with it? Do we want the employment that this brings with it? Do we want the continuity of supply that this brings with it? If we do- and I believe that we do and that it is to the benefit of Australiathen it is no good persecuting drug companies. One cannot have it both ways. It certainly would be possible to buy cheaper drugs on the international market from time to time, but one would miss out on all those other things including the guarantee of supply. One would also miss out on something which tends sometimes to make drugs more expensive in Australia than some other countries, and that is our stricter code of good manufacturing practice. I believe that it is correct that we should have a strict code to enforce quality standards not only for prescription drugs, but for over-the-counter drugs. The danger of losing production in Australia is not just an idle thought. It is just about here and now. For example, penicillin production in Australia was carried out by 3 companies. I think that it is now down to 2 companies and in fact the second company, Abbott Laboratories Pty Ltd, has closed production for the time being and has dismissed 70 people from its plant. To my knowledge, the Commonwealth Serum Laboratory is the only remaining manufacturer in Australia of penicillin and its derivatives at present. In the next few weeks or few months, there will be a report from the Industries Assistance Commission. 
-The Government owns CSL. One can see from the Budget that the Government subsidy for CSL is double what it was in the previous Budget. In the next few weeks there will be a report on tariff protection for penicillin. If, as the rumours have it, the recommendation is that there be no tariff protection for penicillin, it will mean one of two things: CSL stops production of penicillin or the Government subsidy to CSL is increased dramatically. That is a real crunch point as to whether or not we want to have in this country some of the production, some of the technology and some of the employment 
I mentioned earlier that presently there is actually a special committee comprising officers of the Department of Health and some manufacturers who are looking at this cost price squeeze of drug manufacturers in Australia. As a result, a number of drugs have been increased in price in the last 2 months. These are increases in price agreed to by the Government. I believe that that attitude, when compared with the Bill which we have before us, is contradictory. It certainly does not indicate a clear government policy and certainly does not provide the situation for this Bill to be accepted as it stands at present. 
This Bill, as it is now, as I said earlier, gives frightening power to the Director-General of Health or to these 3 unknown people in the pricing bureau. For example, it places no limitation on the amount of information which can be required from a drug manufacturer. It allows no reasonable time limit for that manufacturer to provide that information. It allows no accounting of the overall profitability of the drug company in examining the cost of a particular drug. When one looks at the drug industry, one sees that so much depends on one or two particular drugs in respect of which the results of research have put a company ahead of others. This drug may have saved the lives of thousands of people. In this legislation, no account is to be taken of research costs or the overall profitability of the pharmaceutical section of a company. One should certainly not have to take into account a veterinary side or a cosmetic side of a company, but certainly the pharmaceutical section of the company should be considered. 
There is also no guarantee of confidentiality of the information obtained. There is no provision for any independent arbitrator. Everything is decided by this pricing bureau. I would believe as a minimum requirement that there should be some sort of arbitration arrangement. There is also the question of whether the establishment of a pricefixing power by one, two or three people in a department is constitutional when this country has not accepted a referendum in favour of price fixing. If one looks at what is required in other countries, such as Great Britain, one finds that there certainly is a requirement for information. I am told that in Britain this is basically in the form of a report on the profitability of a particular company rather than on individual drugs. When I was in Britain, I was told that in some cases the Government itself helps the company because of the importance to Britain of its export market. 
In New Zealand, information is required on imported drugs, not by the Department of Health, but by the Department of Trade for other reasons. In the United States of America at present there is discussion of lowering drug costs. This centres around America's Medicare or Medicaid programs, where there is Government financial support for drug prescriptions, where generic drugs are prescribed- this is only a small percentage- and where it is shown by the Food and Drug Administration that all the drugs prescribed have the same therapeutic value. When this is all sorted out, the medical practitioner will be required to prescribe drugs at the lowest cost. But none of the proposals make the demands on the drug companies for which this legislation will provide. 
This leads one to ask what is the genuine reason for the Government wanting this legislation. Is it something to do with its ambitions in the manufacture of pharmaceuticals? Is there also the question of unfair competition from a Government subsidised and supported company? This brings us to the interesting question of Fawnmac Industries Pty Ltd. This was purchased by the Government recently and I have here a Press statement of the Minister for Health in which several things are stated. One in particular is: 
It would also give the Government reliable information about the basic production costs associated with pharmaceutical manufacturing. 
If the purchase of this company gives the Government this information, why does it want this legislation? If one were suspicious, one could say that perhaps the Government wants this information on individual drugs from other companies so that it can pass this information on to the company that it now owns and provide unfair competition. 
There is also the question of the suitability to the taxpayers of Australia of the Fawnmac purchase. The Press release at the time stated that 
Fawnmac had cost $6m. In the Budget on Tuesday night, we learned that the purchase of Fawnmac had cost $8.4m- a slight discrepancy of $2.4m. That is no mean figure when one is handling the taxpayers ' money. I think that any explanation on this discrepancy would be welcomed by the people of Australia and certainly by the Opposition. But one could look more closely at the Fawnmac purchase. Was it a good buy or was it goodbye to a lot of taxpayers' money? I have some information on this matter. It has been very difficult to obtain. My office telephoned the manager of Fawnmac to obtain copies of the annual report to ascertain the degree of profitability of this company. This information was refused. We then approached the Victorian Corporate Affairs Office to obtain information about Fawnmac Industries and obtained particulars of the shareholding but not of the profitability. I was informed: 
As disclosed by the returns, the companies are exempt proprietary companies and as such exempt from lodging at this office copies of their annual reports and financial statements. 
The shareholders in those companies, who appear to be very few and who appear to be members of the management, which is continuing under the new arrangements, have done very well out of this purchase by the Government. 
I hope that the Government will provide for Parliament full details on the profitability of the Fawnmac purchase and some good reasons why it was necessary to buy this company with taxpayers' money. I have been told that this company was for sale for $2m for two or three years. I trunk it was the only company that the Government could purchase because it was the only one with a manufacturing capability that was for sale. Since the purchase- as I said, the previous ownership has continued in management- the manager has sent letters to overseas suppliers to the company to the effect that as the company is now an Australian Government instrumentality special treatment will be provided. These letters have gone to eastern European countries and China, among others. 
This raises the very serious question of the action of the Government in purchasing this company, both for financial reasons and for policy reasons, and how much this piece of legislation is tied in with its ambition, at all costs to the taxpayers, to get into drug manufacture, because there appear to be very few lines of special selling ability and the plant is not of particularly noteworthy capability. 
Will special treatment be given to the Fawnmac company by the Government? The Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission, the long-standing government corporation, requires a significant subsidy. I do not criticise the subsidy for CSL, because CSL is required to manufacture vaccines and other products which are not commercially available. But it still raises the general question of efficiency of any government drug company. If the Government is sincere in wanting to cut drug costs, then perhaps it should be looking at its own actions rather than at the actions of the private drug companies to the degree that it is. I certainly support the need for careful evaluation and checking of what any drug company may put up as a reasonable price. 
At the present time there is an Industries Assistance Commission hearing on pharmaceutical and veterinary products. The matter was referred to the Commission some time ago by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  I am told that this investigation has turned into a general investigation of the pharmaceutical manufacturing industry, and I think that is a good thing. I think it is good that we find out what the true position is because we have not been told yet. I am told that the Australian Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association, within the last two or three weeks, has presented a 50-page submission to this hearing on costs of production and cost structure. This to me is important information for the IAC to have. Because of this, the Opposition has decided that this legislation should be deferred until the Industries Assistance Commission report is completed and published and everybody on both sides of the Parliament and outside Parliament in the general public has had the opportunity to see what is the position with regard to drug manufacture. 
The Commission's inquiry was initiated by the present Government. Therefore it sees this as a matter for genuine and serious concern. We in the Opposition see it as a matter of genuine and serious concern. I think it is a reasonable proposition to defer this legislation until that report is presented. After all, it is not as if the Government has wanted this legislation urgently because, as we are told, this legislation is based on a simple recommendation from the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Prices almost 2 years ago, in November 1973. So if we have to wait another two or three months or however many months- I do not think it will be more than 6 months- until this report is out, I think it is reasonable to request a deferral of this Bill. If the Government wants the information earlier, it can tell the IAC that it wants it earlier. 
Until now the Government has not made a case for its legislation. Much of its action, particularly recently, has been contrary to the points contained in this legislation, which, as I say, stem from an earlier, more ideological period. When we have the information from the IAC, a final decision can be made whether or not to accept the legislation. I issue a warning that if the Opposition is to accept the legislation- I am not saying that it will- major amendments will be required to. guarantee confidentiality, the inclusion of overall profitability, of reasonable time limits and of reasonable requirements on information provided and on the question of an independent arbitrator so that everything is not only above board and just but is seen to be just. If the public can see the position more clearly rather than there being a hidden bureau, that is probably all the better also. I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: the House is of the opinion that the Bill should not be proceeded with until the Industries Assistance Commission has completed and published its report on pharmaceutical and veterinary products'. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Who are the representatives, and from which Departments do they come, who make up the Working Party on Medical and Surgical Aids and Appliances. 
What reports and proposals have been prepared by this Working Party and what reports and proposals are still under consideration. 
Will all of these reports be made public when completed. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Have any management consultant firms been employed by his Department or any commissions or corporations responsible to him since December 1972. 
If so, what were the firms, what was their job, and what was the cost involved. 
If not, is it considered that the effectiveness of the Department or any of the commissions or corporations could be increased by such an investigation. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the proposed A.C.T. hospital plan, referred to in the answer to question No. 1786, which the architectural firm of Llewellyn Davies was asked to review. 
What is the planned size of the hospital, when will construction begin, and what is the estimated date of completion. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What percentage of the Australian population is estimated to suffer from rheumatic and associated complaints. 
What is the basis for this estimate. 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
What is the ABC budget allocation for the  Lateline  radio program. 
Who are the producers of the program. 
Does the ABC check to ensure that balanced programs are produced. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
When will the National Health and Medical Research Council refer to the Food Standards Committee the question of labelling alcohol beverage containers with the alcohol content of the beverage contained therein. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Have any requests been received from the National Health and Medical Research Council for an excise differential to encourage the production of a lower alcohol content beer. 
) If so, what action has been taken on the request. 
asked the Minister representing the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
1 ) What voluntary organisations have requested financial assistance from the Department of the Special Minister of State for the establishment or maintenance of a federal headquarters. 
What has been the response to the requests. 
-The National Health (Pharmaceutical Benefits Charges) Bill 1975 increases the patient contribution for general pharmaceutical benefit from $1 to $1.50 and the subsidised health benefit prescription charge from 50c to 75c. Prescriptions for pensioner medical card holders and repatriation benefit recipients will still be free of any patient charge and friendly society arrangements will continue without change. These increased charges were not included in the Budget, or were not basically part of the Budget- they were announced earlier on 24 July- although they certainly are an integral part of the cost to a government. The increases were announced by the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  on 24 July, but at the same time he announced the rejection of  Sir Walter  Scott's recommendation on retrospective payments for pharmaceutical benefits to chemists for prescription fees or dispensing fees which date back to 1 July 1973. This announcement coupling the 2 decisions into one made the chemists of Australia very unhappy because in their belief the public felt that this $1.50 was being paid to the chemists for their profit rather than it being a charge by the Government on the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. I believe it was unfortunate, particularly if it was deliberate, that these 2 decisions were put together in the one announcement. 
The increase in the pharmaceutical benefits charge from $1 to $1.50 was almost inevitable because of the Government's creation of galloping inflation in this country and its desperate need for additional revenue. The Opposition will not oppose the legislation because, as the Minister has pointed out, the cost to the patient for a prescription fee will be approximately the same as it was in 1971 when it was last increased by the previous Government; that is to say the prescription fee or charge of $1.50 will approximate one per cent of average male weekly earnings now as it did at that time. However, at least for this year, the percentage of the total payment for a pharmaceutical benefit will be relatively higher for the patient, lower for the Government and possibly the lowest ever for the drug manufacturer. I am referring to the percentages of the components of the total prescription. One matter of interest and importance in the Government's announcement of its increase is that it contradicts its own policy. The Australian Labor Party had stated and restated in its policy that it is opposed to any direct payment or contribution by patients for prescription for pharmaceutical benefits. But here we have the Australian Labor Party Government completely contradicting its own policy. In the ALP policy document prepared after the Launceston conference of 1973 it is stated in paragraph 22: 
The dispensing of prescriptions without direct charge to the patient. 
Now, in its greater wisdom after the national conference at Terrigal in 1975, it is stated in paragraph 18 (a) of the official platform document: 
The dispensing of prescriptions without direct charge to the patient but with provision being made to deter against over prescribing. 
One could ask if there is not even a contradiction within that one sentence. If there is any deterrent at the moment to over prescribing- in the sense of the patient asking for more than he may require- it would be in the increase of 50 per cent in the charge. But how does the Labor Government console itself with this complete contradiction of its policy which has been stated and restated on a number of occasions? How does it also match this increased patient contribution in the pharmaceutical section of our national health scheme with its own insistence on having no patient contribution for the medical section of a national health scheme? On the one hand, the Labor Government has fought and fought hard to ensure that there is no patient contribution by putting pressure on general practitioners for bulk billing. Yet, on the other hand, under this Bill it is blithely increasing the patient contribution required in respect of the pharmaceutical benefits charge by 50 per cent and is making it the highest for many years of the percentage of the total prescription that the patient will have to bear. In saying that, I am referring to the components going to the drug manufacturer, the wholesaler, the chemist's mark-up, the chemist's dispensing fee and the patient contribution. I would be interested to hear how Labor resolves these quite apparent and quite serious contradictions, all contained in its own health policy. 
However, the contradictions also highlight another anomaly. I think this is something the Minister himself acknowledges. Australia has had a pharmaceutical benefits scheme since 1948 and an expanded scheme since 1960 which governments of all political persuasions have supported. It is a scheme which provides for government financial support for the purchase of drugs necessary for the restoration of health or the return to normal life of those people who need such treatment through drug therapy. However, those who require other forms of therapy or other forms of assistance- that is, the physically handicapped- are not so fortunate. Hearing aids are available for certain groups in the community, as are artificial limbs. The present Government has introduced stoma appliances and home dialysis. However, it appears to me that there is a need for a general scheme to offset costs of aids and appliances necessary for people with physical handicaps, as distinct from their medicinal needs, so that such people can lead normal lives. 
I believe, consistent with our philosophy, that there should be a patient contribution for such government help, as there is in regard to the pharmaceutical benefits scheme, and that such help initially should be restricted to certain special groups. It should be provided only after there has been an open inquiry, not a secret interdepartmental inquiry or an inquiry within one department such as was the case with the hearing aids, the result of which as yet has not been released to the public in spite of all the cries of open government which we hear from this Government. I believe that groups outside those included in any working party or any inquiry should have an opportunity to put their points of view and to agree or disagree with the recommendations, and that a general debate should take place on such matters. The Minister made reference in his second reading speech to the retrospective payments to chemists backdated to 1 July 1973 in order to finalise, from the Government's point of view, it would hope, the agreement originally entered into in 1972 by  Sir Kenneth  Anderson on behalf of the previous Government with the Pharmacy Guild of Australia. The Pharmacy Guild and the chemists of Australia believe that they have been betrayed by the present Government and that they have been let down by the present Minister in relation to this point. The  President  of the Pharmacy Guild of Australia issued a news release on 24 July 1975. It is headed: 'Chemist Chief Hits at Government Decision', and reads as follows: 
The  President  of The Pharmacy Guild of Australia,  Mr Alan  Russell, said tonight he was extremely disappointed that the Government had chosen to ignore the expert advice given by  Sir Walter  Scott and in doing so repudiated an agreement entered into in good faith in 1972 by the Government and the Guild. 'As soon as we have the Government decision in writing the Guild will decide what action it will take to rectify the injustice which has been perpetrated against the pharmaceutical profession throughout Australia ',  Mr Russell  said. 

 Mr Russell said that a Sub Committee of the Minister's own Joint Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefit Pricing Arrangements had quantified the recommendations of  Sir Walter  Scott at 32 cents per prescription for 1 973-74 and 47c per prescription for 1974-75. The Government in raising the patient contribution far in excess of the amount they have decided to pay chemists has not only forced the additional cost onto patients, but has taken the opportunity of substantially reducing the Government's contribution to the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme,  Mr Russell  added. 
The chemists of Australia believed- I think rightly- that the present Minister for Health and the present Government would completely honour any recommendations made by  Sir Walter  Scott. The  Australian Journal of Pharmacy  of February 1973 contained a transcript of an interview between  Mr Charles  Hellier and the Minister for Health in his office in Parliament House, which stated: 
Hellier: Will the Joint Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits Pricing Arrangements continue its work? Do you intend to follow the schedule of adjustments in the NHS professional fee outlined by your predecessor,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson? 
Everingham: I am happy with the compromise arrangement worked out by the previous Government. 
Further on the transcript stated: 
Hellier: So all the arrangements made between the previous government and the Joint Committee still stand? 
Everingham: Yes. Those undertakings would be adhered to. 
The Pharmacy Guild adhered to the agreement which it had reached in 1972 and to which it believed the present Government adhered when it came to power. The Guild had a long wait for the Committee recommendations to be presented; 18 months longer than was originally anticipated. It appears that when it became obvious that the recommendations for retrospective payments for dispensing fees to chemists would be higher than had been originally anticipated the Department of Health unilaterally and arbitrally altered the criteria in the closing stages of the investigation. It decided for its own purposes, in relation to what should be paid to the chemists in retrospective payments, that the bottom three of the six strata of levels of chemists would be dropped. This was the unilateral and arbitrary decision made by the Department, contrary to the understandings entered into by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson and agreed to by the present Minister. Of course, this substantially altered the view of the Department of Health on what the retrospective payments should be. That is why it was done. 
Then the Minister was placed in a rather strange position because the only way in which the Department of Health was able to provide such a new set of criteria was with the agreement of the Minister. The Department had to obtain the agreement of the Minister before that could be done. So on the one hand the Minister was saying that he supported the original agreement that was entered into and on the other hand he was saying that he also supported his own Department in breaking that agreement. He was in the really strange position of going to Cabinet and arguing against himself, because we have been told that he said that he would put the case for the Department of Health, for the  Sir Walter  Scott compromise reached between the Department of Health and the Pharmacy Guild, and for the Pharmacy Guild. It was no surprise to anyone, seeing that the Minister was obviously supporting the Department of Health as he had agreed with it to make the change in the first place, that the Government accepted the Department's ruling which had arbitrarily excluded three of the six levels of economic criteria for chemists in Australia. 
Any other wage or price fixing body in Australia which excluded three of six strata would be laughed out of court, particularly if it involved a trade union arrangement- and quite rightly so. But that did not happen in this case. This arrangement means that, instead of receiving $73.5m in retrospective payment for underpayment in past years to which the chemists believed they were entitled and in respect of which they were supported by  Sir Walter  Scott as  Chairman  of the Committee, the chemists were to be offered $33m. The chemists of Australia rightly believe that they have been betrayed by the Government and the Minister to the extent of $40m. They faithfully waited and abided by the recommendations of the  Chairman  even though they did not agree with them. The chemists of Australia also materially assisted the Government in its introduction of Medibank when the Government, failing to find Medibank agents to allow the introduction of its scheme, obtained the co-operation of the chemists of Australia. 
I am sure the chemists realised that Medibank was only a short term proposition. They also realised that it was not a very good paying proposition. The honourable member for Prospect should give credit where credit is due, particularly when the chemists felt that they were doing their bit. Now the Government, like a dog, has turned and bitten the hand that fed it, to a certain extent. I note that the Minister has stated in reply to a question of mine that a further increase in the dispensing fee for chemists is being negotiated and that it will be backdated to 1 July 1975. It is rumoured that this increase could be up to 15c, which would take the dispensing fee to 99c a prescription. There appears to be no estimate or allowance for this increase in the Budget. There are other considerable underestimates for the pharmaceutical benefits scheme as presented in the Budget papers. I shall not discuss them now. I shall wait until the Budget debate. I just draw the attention of the House to one of what I consider to be many underestimates of Budget expenditure which must add materially to the overall Government deficit. I conclude by saying that the Opposition does not oppose the legislation. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Health and is supplementary to that asked by the honourable member for Scullin. What is the correct purchase price for the Fawnmac group of companies- $8.4m as indicated in the Budget or approximately $6m as reported in the newspapers when the purchase was announced by the Minister? Why is there the discrepancy of $2.4m? If the company has such a great profit record why has the management refused to disclose it when asked? It cannot be obtained by other means as the group comprises exempt companies. The present owners have been trying to sell it for the last 3 years. Will the Minister table the profit and loss, capital and stock valuation and other financial records upon which the Government based its purchase so that the Parliament can be the judge? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Are there sufficient rheumatologists, orthopaedic surgeons and specialist nurses and therapists in Australia to cope effectively with the incidence of rheumatic complaints; if not, what is being done to overcome the shortage 
Are there sufficient physical facilities at hospitals, clinics, etc., to meet adequately the needs of rheumatic sufferers; if not, what is being done to overcome this deficiency. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Where in Departmental Estimates is there provision for expenditure for advertising the Government's Community Health Centre program. 
If there is no special provision in the Estimates, from what pan of Departmental expenditure is the money being provided, and what sum has been allocated. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Have new arrangements been introduced for dental treatment at the Canberra and Woden Valley Hospitals. 
) If so, in what way do the new arrangements differ from past arrangements. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact, as reported in the Melbourne  Age  of 4 June 1975, that a team of 200 Department of Social Security field officers have caught about 50 dole cheats throughout Australia in the last year. 
Are these 200 field officers engaged full time in this work. 
What methods are used by these officers to check possible false claims. 
Is the Department proud or unhappy with this result. 

 Mr Stewart: The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
The article in the  Age  was largely misleading. There are about 200 field officers' positions in the Department of Social Security establishment, but not all of these were engaged during the past year in work connected with review of unemployment benefit payments. As regards the number of cases in which prosecutions have been launched by the Department, I refer the honourable member to the answer provided to House of Representatives question number 2581, in the Hansard of 5 June 1975. 
No. 
I cannot reveal the methods used in checking false claims. The honourable member may appreciate that to do so would not assist in the Department's endeavours to prevent abuse of benefits. 
As already pointed out, the alleged result is based on false premises. These officers also carry out a considerable amount of field work in assisting people with benefit claims and providing advice on benefit entitlements, etc. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
When will the result of the survey of chemists' National Health Service dispensing costs for the financial year 1972-73 be announced so that the Government can honour its commitment to make good any deficiency in payments to chemists for the period since 1 July 1973. 
In addition to this major adjustment of chemists' dispensing fees, when will the next interim fee adjustment be announced. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
When will the A.C.T. Pharmacy Ordinance, and the Poisons and Narcotic Drugs Control Ordinance be changed. 
Is it proposed to alter the definition of Indian Hemp, and to restrict the sale of certain therapeutic substances in these Ordinances. 
If so, which substances will be affected, and what will be the new definition of Indian Hemp. 
asked the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs, upon notice:- 
1 ) Was the sampling technique of fish tested by the Analytical Laboratory for mercury content late in 1974 in several cities conducted in accordance with accepted sampling and testing procedure. 
How many samples were obtained at each place in each city. 
Was a portion of each sample given to the owner or vendor of the fish and a third portion retained for independent testing. 
Were the tested samples cooked or raw. 
-I want to restrict my comments tonight to health matters in the Budget. The major impression one gets from the Budget is that health care is not cheap and that there is no such thing as a free health scheme. Health costs inevitably increase at a faster rate than costs generally, so while inflation continues unchecked by this Government and unless new priorities in health care are established, the annual cost escalation in health care will be frightening. If government policy continues as it is the cost of health care will be such that we will reach the same position that Great Britain reached some years ago and that Canada has reached now, where health services are arbitrarily restricted by government ceilings on expenditure. 
I refer to the Budget speech of the honourable J. Turner, Minister for Finance in Canada, delivered to the Canadian Parliament on 23 June this year. The Canadian health scheme has 2 aspects. It is a cost sharing scheme, a 50/50 scheme, with a hospital section and a medical section. The cost of the hospital section has increased at such a rate- by 19.8 per cent last year- that the Canadian Government has given notice to the provinces 5 years ahead, as it has to, that it will renegotiate the cost sharing agreement with the provinces at that time because it cannot afford the continued expense.  Mr Turner  in speaking about the medical section said: 
A second measure aimed at more effective cost control involves the establishment of a ceiling on the yearly rise in the contributions the federal government makes to the provinces under the Medical Care Act. Since provincial administrations will need some time to adjust their planning, this ceiling will be made effective for 1976 and subsequent years. More specifically a ceiling will be placed on the per capita rate of growth of federal contributions to provinces. This ceiling will be 13 per cent in 1976-77, 10!4 per cent in 1977-78 and 8ft in 1978-79 and subsequent years. 
So Canada, once the great area for the present Government to look to in respect of health care, has its health scheme ending the same way as Britain's with arbitrarily imposed ceilings on health care costs. This means that there is an urgent need to move health expenditure away from the most expensive end of the health care spectrum- that is, the acute shortage of hospital beds- to domiciliary arrangements, day care arrangements, community arrangements, prevention, early intervention and rehabilitation rather than maintenance. I know that this concept is not new; it is not revolutionary. It commenced with the previous Liberal-Country Party Government and has continued under this Government, although I would disagree sometimes with this Government's method of implementation and the cost of the existing scheme. Nevertheless, I commend the innovative skill of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission and its  chairman, Dr Sax.  I am disappointed that in the Budget there was no updating of the domiciliary nursing care benefit to keep it in line with inflation so that the elderly frail will be encouraged to be kept at home by their relatives and out of the more expensive nursing homes and hospital beds. I believe it would save money and would be more socially desirable to end the age barrier 65 years and over- for this scheme and to introduce purely medical criteria. 
The greatest area of increase in health expenditure is Medibank. The Government estimates that it will cost $ 1 ,445m this year which, incidentally, is about the original estimate of the private actuaries who were so criticised by this Government when it was claiming that it would cost about $ 1,000m. However, I believe that this is still a considerable under-estimate, particularly on a full year basis because the major state in Australia. New South Wales, is still not in the hospital side. Allowing for increased usage of services and inflation, I believe that the figure will be closer to $2,000m in this financial year than to the figure given by the Government. I will not make any other comment on that aspect because that is in the area of the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp). 
One point that does emerge from the Budget is that there are considerable cuts in health because, as in education where there are also considerable cuts, the Government's program cannot be sustained. It is bankrupting the country and there has to be a reduction in expenditure. However, one of the ironies is that the cruellest cut need not have occurred because it involves only a small amount and affects a very critical area- medical research. The Budget halves the money provided for medical research from $8m last year to $4m this year, and, of course, this does not allow even for inflation. This is a tragedy for medical research in Australia and for the future health of the Australian people because that $8m provided last year was already a reduced level of research expenditure. We have the lowest level of medical research expenditure of any advanced Western nation. Since the Budget announcement, due to pressure from medical research people aU over Australia, and I congratulate them on their constructive activity in this regard, and to pressure from the Opposition, the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  was forced to agree last Friday that there had been a blunder. A report in last Saturday's  Age  said: 
The Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  yesterday predicted there was a 'better than 50/50 chance' of the Government boosting its $4m Budget allocation for medical research this financial year. 

 Dr Everingham blamed a 'break down in communications ' for the small allocation for medical research. 'The people in the Health Department whom Treasury relied on for its estimates were not the ones they should have looked to for knowledge of research manpower needs,' he said. 
Another part of the article said: 
He urged medical research administrators to put off for the moment any decisions which could jeopardise their projects. 
However a final decision on the funds seems certain to have to wait until the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  returns from overseas in a fortnight. 
There are certain significant aspects of that. First of all, as of Friday last and as quoted in last Saturday's newspapers, the Minister showed no sense of urgency over the need to make an announcement about reinstating these funds so that the research people would be kept in Australia. Secondly, he passed the buck to unnamed officials in his Department and in Treasury who could not reply. In other words I believe we have here a failure by the Minister to accept responsibility for the blunders that have been made. The next episode is in today's  Age  which said under the heading 'Government rush to up grants for research': 
The Federal Government hopes to have a plan to boost medical research grants finalised in time for an expected Opposition move in Parliament this afternoon. 
The Opposition is considering moves to embarrass the Government and its Health Minister  (Dr Everingham)  over grants in the Federal Budget for medical research this year being cut to $4 million. 

 Dr Everingham has had talks with the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the acting Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  about more funds this financial year. 
He wants an extra $850,000 this year, plus a rearrangement of funding for the next three years, to make more money available in the first half of next year. 
At least pressure from the Opposition and the threat of a debate on a matter of public importance in Parliament this afternoon produced some results because tonight we have had released another Press statement in which one is told of the flap in Treasury and in the Department of Health yesterday to get a hurried decision in time for the debate on the matter of public importance that may have been held in Parliament this afternoon. So I think the Opposition can take full credit for a decision having been made now rather than for it waiting a couple of weeks for the Treasurer to come back and get around to looking at the problem. The Press statement made by the Minister for Health a little while ago tonight indicates that the crisis in medical research will continue in this country. It said: 
The Australian Minister for Health,  Dr Doug  Everingham, announced today that the National Health and Medical Research Council had been assured of an allocation of $4m for its research programs in the second half of the 1 976 calendar year. 
This means that $6.3m will be available for the Council in the 1976 calendar year comprising $2.3m from the 1975-76 Budget and $4m from the 1976-77 Budget. 
The $6.3m in 1976 compares with estimated expenditure of $7.77m in 1975 
There are certain points which are quite apparent. One is that there is a substantial reduction, from close to $8m to a little more than $6m. That is the first point. The second point is more significant. It is that the Minister has failed to obtain any extra money whatsoever for medical research this financial year. The extra money that is provided is only a reallocation of the $24m for research purposes in the next triennium which commences after the 1976-77 Budget. This means that, for the first half of the next calendar year, the money available for research will be $2.3m as opposed to $4m for the first half of last year. The additional money will come after the next Budget in this reallocation. The programs, projects and arrangements for medical research become due at the end of this triennium at the end of this calendar year, that is, this December. The money is needed urgently for the first half of the next calendar year- that is, for the second half of this financial year- otherwise there will be virtually no new projects available; some existing projects will not be able to be continued; and the level of medical research in this country will be dealt a bitter blow. 
The critical point is that the money is needed for the first half of the next financial year so that these research projects and programs which fall due at the end of this calendar year can be financed from the beginning of the next financial year. That money is not there. Already we have examples of medical research workers in this country checking, because of the uncertainty of their future employment, with those responsible for northern hemisphere research programs- the academic year in the northern hemisphere commences in October- and accepting jobs in those countries. Many people will be leaving Australia in the next few months if they can obtain work in those northern hemisphere countries, because the money is not available here for research work. This money is needed at the start of the next calendar year. The Minister for Health has failed to obtain any additional money this financial year for medical research. 
Let us look at the figure for the next triennium. This sum of $24m is hailed by the Government as a 39 per cent increase in the allocation for medical research. But inflation has increased in the last 3 years at a rate greater than 39 per cent. So, the allocation for medical research actually will be cut in the next triennium. The National Health and Medical Research Council asked for $47m for the coming triennium. That sum, if provided, would have allowed a modest increase. What the Minister for Health has done is to fail on both counts. He has not solved the medical crisis now and, by moving the allocation of some of the $1.7m extra forward from the end of the next triennium to the beginning of that triennium, he will only accentuate another medical research crisis in 1978, the last year of the 1976-78 triennium, without solving the medical crisis at the moment. 
Let us look at how Australia spends money on medical research. In 1973, Australia spent $4.8m, which really is more than it will be spending this financial year after allowance is made for the effects of inflation. In that same year, Canada spent $46m. Even little New Zealand- which has less than a quarter of our population- spent $2m on medical research. So much for the concern of this Government for medical research, the medical research workers of the country and the future health of Australians; and so much for this evenings Press statement from the Minister for health in which he claims that funds are assured for medical research. The Minister has not provided one extra dollar for this purpose. 
I wish to refer now to some quarantine matters. In September 1973 the Parliamentary Standing Commiittee on Public Works reported to the Parliament in favour of the construction of a maximum security animal quarantine station on the Cocos Islands. Two years later, absolutely nothing has happened. Already Australia is the last country in the Western world not to have such a facility. As we are one of the greatest livestock countries, this station is required here more than it is in some other countries. Parliament has not been allowed to debate, to accept or to reject, the recommendation of the Public Works Committee. If there is no early move by this Government to allow the acceptance or rejection of that proposal, I believe that alternatives such as Christmas Island must be considered so that we can get on with the job. 
In quarantine, there is also the problem of divided authority. One of the key prevention facilities in quarantine is incinerators at public airports. Let me quote certain points from a reply to a question on notice that I asked. The answer was given by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones).  I asked: 
Is his Department the constructing authority for incinerators at airports and seaports? 
The Minister replied: 
The Australian Government construction authority for quarantine incinerators is the Department of Mousing and Construction. The Department of Transport has the financial responsibility. Previous to early 1972 the Department of Civil Aviation did provide funds for the construction of incinerators at airports. However, it is now considered that the responsibility for the disposal of such wastes rests with the Department of Health and the generators of the wastes. 
Here we find 3 departments involved in what should be the simple process of constructing and controlling incinerators for waste collected from overseas aircraft entering Australia. This is a most important matter. In a later part of his answer, the Minister for Transport said: 
It seems that it would be more satisfactory for the Department of Health to have the responsibility for the provision and maintenance of quarantine incinerators . . . 
I certainly agree with him. There are also moves within the Department of Health, at the behest of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  to end the co-operative Federal-State arrangements on animal and plant quarantine functions which have existed since Federation and to transfer the functions to completely Federal control. I believe that this would be a backward move. It would end a successful co-operative arrangement which has helped both the Federal Government and the States. I hope that it is not persisted with. 
I turn to tuberculosis and brucellosis. The Industries Assistance Commission has recommended a government supported eradication and compensation scheme in which 75 per cent of the compensation in respect of brucellosis would be provided by the Federal Government and 25 per cent by the State government concerned. But the Federal Government, by requiring that the farmers involved pay a levy, would be substantially reimbursed. This matter is still being considered by the Government. I make a plea to the Government to accept the recommendations of the IAC so that a start can be made on 1 January 1976 on this most important scheme. It will cost very little in this financial year- probably only $ 1 m or $2m- because it will take time to gear up for this scheme. This scheme is tremendously important to the people of Australia if we are to meet the 1983 provisionally free status required by the United States in respect of the import of meat. 
However, this is not just an agricultural and export matter. It is also a public health matter of some importance. Brucellosis is a disease that is transmissible to humans. Recently in Victoria 2 large regional cities, Wangaratta and Warrnambool, were shown to be receiving milk which was not pasteurised and which was brucellosis contaminated. Recently it became known in the dairying area of my electorate that for some time the Department of Agriculture in Victoria had been secretly or quietly doing milk ring tests on farmers' milk to ascertain the level of brucellosis in that milk. The farmers were not told at all what the level was. To their astonishment, when they inquired, they found out that the majority of dairy farmers, not only in northern Victoria but everywhere in Australia, I believe, are drinking brucellosis contaminated milk. In addition, many people in small towns throughout Australia, plus these 2 regional towns and probably other regional ones that I might mention, are receiving brucellosis contaminated milk. I believe that it is most important for the Government to accept these recommendations and to get on with the job that is required from the point of view of public health and agricultural exports. I repeat that this scheme would cost very little this financial year but would allow a movement towards the 1983 provisionally free status. 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
How many (a) Ministers, (b) Opposition Shadow Ministers, (c) Government backbenchers, (d) Opposition backbenchers, (e) trade union officials and  (0  employer representatives appeared on the ABC radio programs (i) 'AM ' and (ii) 'PM ' this year to 1 June 1 975. 
-Is the Minister for Health satisfied that his announcement on medical research of Tuesday evening will end the crisis in medical research caused by the 50 per cent Budget cut for this year? Or is the truth that no additional finance is being provided- only a reallocation of finance for the 1976-78 triennium to increase the amount available for the latter part of 1976 after the next Budget- and that in the critical first 6-month period of 1 976 there is a completely inadequate amount for the continuation of projects and employment of research personnel after December this year? 
I wish to draw 2 grievances to the attention of the House and the Government. The first grievance concerns the position of the aged blind and the second one concerns unemployment and sickness benefits for the self-employed of Australia. The aged blind, that is, those 65 years and over, are not a large group of people but it is one of the most disadvantaged and defenceless groups in our community. Therefore, the broken promise of this Labor Government on their behalf has largely gone unnoticed. Since 1954, every blind person in Australia has received a means test free and tax free pension, pensioner medical entitlements and ancillary State and local government benefits which flow from the grant- ing of those entitlements. This concession was greatly appreciated by the blind community. In the lead-up to the 1972 election, one aged blind person wrote to  Mr McMahon  and to  Mr Hayden.  He wrote in September 1972 asking what each political party would do with this concession if it became the new Government.  Mr McMahon  replied that the benefits already granted would continue.  Mr Hayden  replied by telegram on 26 September 1972.I seek leave to have this telegram incorporated in  Hansard. 
Ipswich Qld23.2.30P 

 Mr J W KENNY 579 Victoria Rd 
RydeN.S.W. 
Labour would not take any benefits already enjoyed by blind people regards 
BILL HAYDEN, MP 
I wish honourable members to pay particular attention to that telegram. In September 1973 when the means test was abolished by this Government for those people 75 years and over, all age pensions in Australia were taxed. Not only was the means test free groupthat is, those people 75 years and over- taxed but also all people between the ages of 65 years and 75 years were taxed if they were in receipt of a pension. This in itself is discrimination against pensioners in the 65 years to 75 years group because they were already means tested and taxed as well. Many suffered a real drop in income because of it. But in recognition of the problem that this would create for the aged blind, the Government introduced a transitional benefit of $3 a week for those aged blind 65 years and over. In May 1975 the transitional benefit of S3 a week was abolished. 
We now have an absurd situation. Blind people up to the age of 65 years receive a means test free and tax free pension. Blind people over the age of 65 years receive a means test free pension but are taxed. In other words, at the time of their lives- that is, 65 years and over- when their financial burdens, including medical costs, would increase they receive less income than those blind people under 65 years. This is discrimination and differential treatment and it is a betrayal of a promise by a senior spokesman for the then Labor Party Opposition that Labor would not take away any benefits already enjoyed by the blind people of Australia. 
It is not as if the Government is not aware of this problem because repeated representations have been made to  Mr Hayden  and others by associations for the blind.  Dr Cairns,  the former Treasurer, in reply to a question that I placed on the notice paper, justified the abolition of the transitional benefits by stating that increased pensions were coming and that the blind aged pensioners are, of course, also eligible for the age tax rebate. Let us have a look at this Budget. The age tax rebate has been abolished. So any sort of argument that the Government might have had has also been abolished, particularly when one looks at the level of pensions now. The real message contained in this Budget in regard to pensions is that they will be reduced. The basis of allocating pensions has been changed from a system of basing them on average male weekly earnings to basing them on the consumer price index which is a lower figure. 
One can remember now  Mr Whitlam  's promises for the 1972 election. He said that age pensions would never be allowed to fall below the level of 25 per cent of average male weekly earnings. Since 1972, pensioners have never received pensions at this level. Of course, now they have no hope because the Government is not even sticking to its promise in regard to keeping pensions at that level of average male weekly earnings. I call on the Government to honour its promise to the aged blind. It will not cost much. I ask it either to restore the tax free arrangement which existed prior to September 1973 or, if that is difficult, to provide adequate compensation arrangements- $3 a week or whatever is required now- to compensate for that loss. I also ask it to clarify and confirm the fringe benefit entitlements for these people. 
I also want to complain about the bad practice of  Senator Wheeldon,  the Minister for Social Security and Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, of not replying himself to letters written to him. I have had number of examples. One of them concerns a blind person who wrote to  Mr Hayden  and to  Senator Wheeldon  on this matter to which I have referred.  Senator Wheeldon  referred the letter to  Mr Daniels,  the DirectorGeneral of the Department of Social Security, for his reply. I believe that this is unfair to the Director-General of Social Security because he is forced to reply to letters which, let us say, may have a political content, when he is a senior civil servant. It is also unfair to the writer of the letter not to receive the courtesy of a reply signed by the Minister to whom the letter was addressed. I hope that that practice ceases. 
The second grievance I wish to raise today concerns unemployment and sickness benefits for the self-employed. I believe that this is an injustice and an inequity in our social service system. This is about the sixth or eighth time I have mentioned this matter in Parliament since I entered it. Quite frankly, I hope that it is the last because there now appears to be a greater general recognition of this injustice and more people are speaking up about it. At long last, farmer organisations, which were fairly tardy about this matter, are also protesting. The need for action here is urgent because of the very bad condition of the self-employed- mainly farmers but also the small business people throughout Australia, particularly those in country areas. The means test calculation at the present time is based on income and assets. Both of these are taken into account. On the asset side for calculation purposes provision is made for a notional 10 per cent return on capital. 
Let me take the example of a farmer. He has assets, theoretically, in his farm, but he has a very low or minus return on capital. Nobody in the small business world, whether he be a farmer or a small business man, would get a return of anywhere near 10 per cent. The farmer is probably on a minus return at the moment. He is disqualified from receiving a sickness or age pension or the unemployment benefit because of this provision, but he cannot sell his property because his business is depressed. Even if he could, why should he have his life ruined for the sake of a few months, one bad season, a downturn in prices or an illness? I believe that unemployment benefits are right and just for a worker who is put out of work for a period of time because of a downturn in business. Because I believe that, I believe that it is also right and just that a small self-employed businessman should not be disadvantaged and should be able to receive some income to tide him over until the future prospects are brighter; he should not have his life ruined. 
The logical means of assisting such people is through the income only assessment method. This method is used in New Zealand and possibly in other countries. I know that this would not necessarily solve the problem, particularly for the farmer and the businessman, because quite often in the operation of such a scheme one would have to use historic records- in other words, the previous year's tax return- and the income could be declining further. I believe that allowances could be made for this by using the person's tax return for the last year, calculating his current income and, if necessary, making adjustments later. Another advantage that city people have is that quite often the wife can go out to work when the husband cannot. In the rural areas the wife cannot do this, either because the couple live too many miles away from employment or because there is too much unemployment in the country areas. This applies to business people in the small towns, too. I therefore call on the Government to correct what I consider are 2 legitimate grievances. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Government by itself or in co-operation with the Victorian Government initiated a training course for' orthotists at the Lincoln Institute. 
Are there any similar courses elsewhere in Australia. 
Is it a fact that only graduates of this course will be considered qualified, and no recognition will be granted to practising orthotists 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What are the details of the decision reached at the recent Health Ministers Conference to restrict cigarette advertising. 
Have all the State Governments promised to implement all the decisions. 
Was there any discussion or decision on restricting alcohol advertising. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) How many blind people are there in Australia aged 65 or over who are in receipt of a pension. 
What is the estimated saving to the Government by taxing this pension. 
What was the cost of the transitional benefit for the aged blind. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is it illegal to grow Indian Hemp in the Australian Capital Territory.' " 
If so, how many separate plantings have been discovered since January 1973, how many prosecutions have resulted from these plantings, and how many of these prosecutions have been successful. 
Is it technically possible to grow Indian Hemp in the Australian Capital Territory free of prosecution because of deficiencies in the definition of this plant. 
-The matter of public importance is the failure of the Government in science and research and its administration. This was dramatically revealed by the drastic Budget cuts in research. These Budget cuts reveal the Government's real attitude to science and research in Australia. While budgeted outlays increased by 23 per cent and no doubt will increase beyond that, research through the Australian Research Grants Council was slashed from $9m to $3m and the National Health and Medical Research Council funds have been cut from $8m to $4m. This means a cut in effective terms of about 70 per cent as opposed to an overall increase in Government expenditure of 20 per cent plus. 
These figures dramatically illustrate the dismal priority which research and science generally are given by the Labor Government. In fact the Government appears to have no policy for science and research. This is not surprising because when one looks through the policy speeches of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in 1972- a 35 page document- and in 1974- a 42 page document- there is no reference to research or science. In those documents and elsewhere the Prime Minister states quite often that he supports and encourages excellence and quality in Australia but he gives excellence and quality no role in research or science which every other advanced western society gives a prominent part. The Prime Minister and this Government give no role to research and science in their dream of a better and healthier Australia. 
The previous Liberal and Country Party Government gradually developed support for science and research from a modest beginning to a reasonable level when it lost office in 1972. In 1965 it established the Australian Research Grants Council. The grants in 1965 were greater than they will be in inflation-ridden 1976. The 1973- 75 National Health and Medical Research Council triennium allocation was a substantial lift for medical research in this country and credit should be given not just to the McMahon Government of that day but to the then Prime Minister himself, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  for his prominent part in lifting medical research. The triennium allocation to the National Health and Medical Research Council also provided stability and a long term planning ability which is essential for research. By 1973 Australia had an acceptable international reputation in respect of the quality of and Government support for research. Australia was gradually increasing the amount of money available for research along with the ability of the country to sustain research and to provide adequate numbers of skilled researchers for the number of worthwhile projects available. Two and a half years later Labor has shattered this carefully built structure for research in this country. I intend to concentrate in my remarks on medical research and the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  will go into detail about the lack of a science policy generally and the lack of scientific research. 
Two aspects of medical research are relevant. One is the long term attitude of this Government and the other is the immediate problem in medical research which has been created by the actions of the Government. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development examiner's report on science and technology- it investigated the subject in 1973 and the report was presented in 1974 at a time when there was far more adequate research finance available than there is now- said of medical research in Australia: 
We feel that there is a need for a stronger and better sustained medical research effort in Australia for economic as well as humanitarian and welfare reasons. 
At that time the amount of research expenditure in Australia was acceptable but, as the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development points out, it is still modest by international standards. What a contrast that is with today's figures in the present inflationary situation following these drastic Budget cuts. Australia probably has the lowest priority on any research of any Western nation. The 1976-78 triennium allocation for the National Health and Medical Research Council announced in this Budget was proudly heralded as a 39 per cent increase in medical research with $24m being provided for the 3 years. However, the National Health and Medical Research Council submission requested $47m. The Government's $24m allocation, after allowing for inflation between the two 3-year periods with which the allocation has been compared and the 30 per cent of total expenditure on equipment etc. which is not indexed for inflation in the grant, will mean that the level of research expenditure will barely be maintained at the 1975 level. There will be no increase at all. It will be less than in 1 973 or 1 974. If one really looks at what the Government's allocation of that $24m has done, it can be seen that it will mean another crisis for medical research in 1978, that is, if medical research survives the immediate crisis of the first 6 months of 1 976. 
I think the tragic attitude of the Government to medical research is highlighted by the treatment which the National Health and Medical Research Council submission received. It is considered that this submission is the best, most carefully documented proposal ever presented on medical research in Australia. My information is that this carefully documented submission was never presented to or considered by Cabinet. 
It has certainly never been presented to the Parliament. So much for the open Government of which Labor so proudly boasts! So much for the priority of research in this country to allow the people of Australia to see what is happening to these proposals. I am informed also that the National Health and Medical Research Council proposals were never presented to the Australian Science and Technology Council which is the Government's proclaimed advisory board on research. I am also informed that the Australian Research Grants Committee proposal also was not presented to the Australian Science and Technology Council. What is the immediate effect? Even if the triennium allocation is considered adequate- 'adequate' would be the strongest word one could use and then I think one would still be exaggerating- the triennium planning is theoretically continued but that may be of no value if the present crisis, that is the crisis in medical research that will be with us in the first 6 months of 1 976, is not resolved. That is the immediate crisis. The first allocation of this $24m will become available only after the 1976 Budget. The Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  increased the allocation of the $24m for the latter half of 1976 from $2.3m to $4m after medical research groups and Opposition protests. He then tried to sell this under a Press release heading 'Funds for Medical Research Assured'. What a sham! That sham was soon exposed by the people in medical research and by the Opposition. It resulted in an answer to a question by the Minister last Thursday when he acknowledged that he would have to take the matter up with the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  on his return. 
If there are to be the necessary funds for the first 6 months of 1976 they must come from this Budget either by way of a new allocation or by economies elsewhere. In the first 6 months of 1976 only $2.3m will be available compared with $4m for the same period this year. Of this $2.3m, $ 1.679m is already committed as being the half-year cost of the $3. 359m allocation for on-going projects beyond the end of the present triennium in December. Unless additional Budget money amounting to Sim to $1.5m is provided for this January- June 1976 period, there will be this immediate crisis in medical research. If we deduct $ 1.679m from $2.3m, about $621,000 is left to finance all the new triennium arrangements, including project grants coming up for renewal and new grants. -There are 400 applications for new grants of which 199 were recommended and 35 were accepted. Of that 35, only 5 were new grants. 
Five out of 400. What of fellowships and scholarships which are essential? What of the equipment, the maintenance and the goods and services required for backup? This allocation will mean a dislocation of research in this country. Two hundred out of 425 people employed under National Health and Medical Research Council grants will be out of a job at the end of this year. A good percentage of those 200 people will be women. So much for the Government's concern for employment opportunities and opportunities for skilled women in International Women's Year. Many of those people will have to leave the country or are leaving the country now. Our international reputation in this area will be severely damaged. The future health of Australians will be in danger. 
Out of a total expenditure of $2,700m for health care allocated in this Budget- I include Medibank in that figure- and an increased figure of $171m, on the Minister's Press statement, of funds available to the Department of Health for this year, medical research receives the princely amount of $4m. The cost benefit of this amount in relation to that total health expenditure far outweighs much of the other expenditure because of the future payoff in the health of Australians and the reduced health care costs in this country in the future. The ratio of medical research expenditure to total health expenditure in this country is the lowest of any Western nation. Surely in this massive total expenditure of $2, 700m there is an economy of $lm or $1,500,000 available to provide the funds needed for the first 6 months of next year. What is the position of the Government's own in-house research bodies? They have not been forced to accept the same cuts in expenditure. The Commonwealth Serum Laboratories, the National Acoustics Laboratory the Radiation Laboratories, the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, the Ultra-sonic Institute and the National Biological Standards Laboratory have not had to accept such expenditure cuts. This leads one to suspect not only that does the Government not care about independent research but also that it may even be attempting indirectly to muzzle independent research. I think that the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  will have more to say about this. 
The Minister must stand up, accept his responsibilities and obtain this increased amount of money either by economies or by a new allocation. He cannot continue to pass the buck to unnamed people in departments. If a genuine mistake between departments has been made, that can be easily solved. But one suspects that that is the excuse and not the reason. The academic community in Melbourne is aroused to the extent that a protest meeting is held tonight. The National Health and Medical Research Council is to meet on 20 September. A decision must be made by that time to avoid staff dislocation. I am authorised to say on behalf of the Opposition that if it were in government medical research and research generally would receive a higher priority in overall expenditure priorities than is evident with this Government. By inference, there would be a greater encouragement for independent research. Secondly, I am authorised to state that research would not be dislocated arbitrarily as the present Government has done and that a Liberal-National Country Party Government would continue the long term financial arrangements it commenced when in office so that the necessary stability could be provided for medical research in this country. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What voluntary organisations have requested financial assistance from his Department for the establishment or maintenance of a federal headquarters. 
What has been the response to the requests. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What progress has been made with the establishment of a Dental Advisory Council of Australia. 
What will be its functions and membership. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
Did the Government instruct the private sector of the prosthetic industry not to expand their artificial limb capacity as the limb factory of the Department would be expanded to meet Australian requirements. 
If so, has this instruction now been revoked; if so, why. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Government provide any financial assistance for a grain infestation eradication program. 
If not, is this a reversal of the attitude of the Government, if so, why has the attitude been changed. 
Will the Government introduce legislation so that a grower levy can be implemented to finance a scheme. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
Which polling booths in each House of Representatives electoral division are to be closed before the next election. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
1 ) How many artificial limbs have been supplied through the Department in each financial year since 1 July 1971. 
What alterations have been made to the criteria for the supply of free limbs since this Government took office. 
Why has the waiting time increased for people requiring artificial limbs. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What will be the managerial arrangements for the recently purchased Fawnmac group of companies. 
What administrative and managerial links will be established between these companies and the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories on the one hand and of both groups with the Government. 
3 ) Will Fawnmac be required to operate at a profit or will it be linked with the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories and be subsidised by the Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1) Is the fruitgrowing reconstruction scheme still in operation. 
If not, have there been any requests for its reintoduction in a more satisfactory form for canning pears. 
If it is still in operation, have there been suggestions to make it more acceptable for the pear canning industry. 
Was the original scheme aimed at the apple and pear industry, but is it a fact that it has not been effective for the pear industry, particularly the dominant canning section. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Further to Question No. 2422 and the new nonsmoking seating arrangements on Australian internal air services, is the percentage of non-smoking seats on these aircraft still below that of other countries. 
Is it a fact that the first class non-smoking section on DC9 's and 727 's is now less satisfactory than before because the first row is now for smokers and non-smokers are now surrounded by smoke. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
What progress has been made with the implementation of the report recommending the payment for manufacturing milk on a total solids basis. 
Who is mainly responsible for the slow progress. 
Can he say whether New Zealand will introduce such a scheme during the 1975-76 season. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
Has the Minister received a telegram from the Goulburn Valley Trades and Labor Council requesting the Government to arrange for the Reserve Bank to supply immediately bridging finance to the fruit canneries so that growers can be paid and cannery employees retained. 
If so, what action is the Government taking in response to the telegram. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What is the present position of the Hobart Eastern Shore Community Health Centre. 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
Is the ABC dropping the two science programs 'Insight' and 'Innovations' and replacing them with a new program 'The Science Show'; if so why, and how much money will the ABC save by this action. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) What problems have emerged with the administration of the Handicapped Children 's Allowance. 
Has the definition proved satisfactory. 
How many children are receiving the allowance, and how many applications have been rejected. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Government agree with the practice of allowing wines to be imported from countries such as France where up to 30 grams of sugar can be added per litre of wine, thus providing unfair competition with Australian wines where there are regulations against such adulteration. 
Will the Department refer the matter of such adulterated imports to the correct department or authority for investigation. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is the Royal Flying Doctor Service of Australia in financial trouble. 
If so, what aid has been given in the past 
) What assistance is being considered on this occasion. 
-Ten minutes is a very restricted time in which to talk about the $691,000,000 for the Department of Health, so I will try to cover 4 areas- administration, the Australian Capital Territory, the Northern Territory and the pharmaceutical benefits. I think the most important comment that can be made about the estimates of the Department of Health is that the major health cost of this country, that is the $ 1,400m plus for the Health Insurance Commission or Medibank, does not come within the responsibility of the Department of Health. It is the responsibility of another department altogether. I believe that this is an absurd situation, because the Department of Health has no control over or input into this major health cost. 
It means there can be no control, priority procedures or positive health procedures to be introduced by the department responsible for health at the federal level. Medibank will gallop away with such a proportion of gross national product that there will not be sufficient funds available for the other important health and welfare services that the people need. Medibank will have to be curbed. There will have to be utilisation and control mechanisms to control doctor and patient abuse. In all of this area we have no Department of Health expertise. Hopefully submissions made to the Royal Commission on Australian Government adminstration are covering this point. 
I turn to the situation of ACT hospitals. The estimates for the Department of Health indicate a decrease in the expenditure on both the Canberra and Woden Valley hospitals. The reductions are substantial. It is claimed that they have been made because of the 50 per cent funding from Medibank. However, the decrease comes at a time of increased utilisation through an increased population and through Medibank itself. Let us make allowance for an increase in bed occupancy in the 2 hospitals from 738 per day to 778 per day, which is considered to be an unrealistically low figure by many people conversant with this area, but that is the Department's estimate. Why at a time of increasing Canberra population and expectation of greater bed occupancy has the number of resident medical officers at the hospitals been reduced? I am told that it is a fact that it was hoped to have 37 resident medical officers in the ACT hospitals for 1975. The number obtained was 29. In May before the abolition of the Canberra Hospitals Board permission to recruit a further 9 was obtained to build the number up to 38. However, the original number has decreased to 26 and now permission to employ any more resident medical officers had been revoked. So there is a shortfall in the 2 Canberra hospitals at the present time without any permission to increase the number of resident medical officers to what is considered to be adequate; that is, to increase the number by 12 to bring it to 38. 
How will these hospitals be properly staffed with the increase in utilisation that is taking place with the increased population and Medibank? It is no use saying that there are more salaried medical specialists. They are not a substitute for resident medical officers; they are a substitute for visiting medical officers. The two are complementary. Furthermore, of the salaried specialists recruited by the ACT Health Commission in its desperate determination to exclude private specialists, some have been accepted with doubtful medical qualifications. They have been provisionally accepted under the 12-month trial provisional procedure and accepted from medical schools that have not been recognised by any Australian medical registration board. 
Yes. The implications for health in Canberra are quite serious. There is first of all a danger over a long period of lowering the medical standards of doctors available to people in Canberra and the danger, from the ability of these people to go elsewhere in Australia after registration under this procedure, of lowering medical and health standards throughout the country generally. 
I deal now with Northern Territory health. I am pleased to see the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  in the chamber. I ask him whether a sufficient appropriation has been made under division 329, the Northern Territory section, to allow or provide for substantially increased salaries for medical officers in the Northern Territory, particularly in certain Northern Territory hospitals such as the Darwin hospital. The Minister is well aware of the critical situation which exists, particularly at Darwin hospital, and I give him credit for his efforts in this direction, but in reply to a question from the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  he indicated that the salaries provided for medical officers in the Northern Territory are 25 per cent below similar levels in the A.C.T. How it is expected to employ medical officers in the Northern Territory under that situation, I do not know, and I am sure he does not know either. Out of 123 positions for medical staff in the Northern Territory at the time he answered the question 26 are vacant. Already an application for a salary increase has been rejected because of the direction on indexation from the Public Service Board. I ask the Minister: Does it mean there will not be the required increase in medical officers in the Northern Territory to provide the adequate staffing necessary there? 
Pharmaceutical benefits constitute the major single item of expenditure in the Department of Health. Pharmaceutical benefits for pensioners and non-pensioners are estimated to cost over $280m. However, these figures appear to be unrealisticaly low. I believe there has been a considerable underestimating by the Department of Health as to what the total costs will be. The figures are unrealistic for 3 reasons: The utilisation will be greater than is estimated; there is the problem of increased pharmacist remuneration and there is also the problem of increased drug costs. If one ignores the abnormal year of 1973-74, which one is suggested to do in the annual report of the Department of Health, the actual increase in both categories in 1974-75 was $10m or an 11 per cent increase on- 1973-74 figures to almost 98 million prescriptions. Yet for 1975-76 an increase to only $102,300,000r-or under half the increase that took place last year has been estimated. Yet this is the year of Medibank during which there will be increased consultations, particularly for pensioners, who are the heaviest users. 
I think, a more realistic figure to aim for would be 110 million prescriptions. I am supported in this assumption by the highly inaccurate departmental estimates that have been made' by the Department in this area over the years. Hidden in the figure allocated for pharmacists' remuneration is the additional $33m of retrospective payments to pharmacists of 1 lc in 1973-74 and 22c last year partly in accordance with the Scott report recommendations. This figure could be increased because of arbitration and it will be increased because of increased utilisation. There is also a recommendation to be made of a further dispensing fee of probably 15c to be paid to chemists this year. 
If one looks at the administration of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme from 1973-74 when the amount allocated was $2. 9m, one will see that the estimate for 1975-76 has jumped to $4.7m or a 68 per cent increase in 3 years. At the same time as the Department acknowledges the problem of inflation in its own administration, it refuses to acknowledge the crisis facing the prescription drug industry. Inflation is allowed for within the Department and the Prices Justification Tribunal has allowed considerable increases in the non-prescription areas to the same companies in respect of which the Department will not recognise inflation in the prescription area. These companies are forbidden from using the Prices Justification Tribunal for prescription drugs because the Department of Health is the monopoly buyer and the setter of prices. A committee comprising representatives of the Australian Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association and the Department was set up to review reasonable price increases. The United Kingdom allowed a substantial increase early in the year. Word had evidently gone out after this that there could be no increases because of the Budgetary restrictions. One can screw the private sector even though the Government sector is allowed to roar on. 
This Government has to make up its mind as to whether or not it wants a prescription drug manufacturing industry in this country and employment for hundreds and thousands of Australians. If it does, increases will have to be granted, and if this happens the Budget estimate in this one area will be under-estimated by many millions of dollars. If that is added to the increased utilisation that will take place, I believe that the Department of Health estimate in this area will be perhaps up to $40m out. Therefore this is one of the many increased Budget costs that will be shown as the year progresses. I will not attempt to talk about all the other interesting things, such as the purchase of FAWNMAC and the hearing aid situation. No doubt time will be provided for that later. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the present car mileage rate for Members who live beyond the 100 kilometre radius and who have to drive their own car to an airport to attend Parliament. 
When was the present rate introduced, and how was it determined. 
When will it be reviewed. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What sum did the Government pay for the Fawnmac group of pharmaceutical companies. 
How many separate companies are there in the group, and what are their names and their production facilities or other factors which necessitated their purchase. 
What was the (a) registered capital, (b) declared profit and (c) annual turnover of each of these companies for the last 3 financial years. 
What expert financial and pharmaceutical advice did the Government obtain before buying these companies, and what other companies were considered for purchase. 
What are the major prescription and non-prescription products sold by these companies. 
What percentage of the annual turnover of these companies is derived from the sale of (a) prescription and nonprescription preparations and (b) other products. 
Is it the intention of the Government to continue the present product range; if not, what changes are contemplated. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) When was it first realised that there was poor television reception in certain wards of Canberra Hospital. 
Why has it taken so long for remedial action to be taken, and when is it anticipated that action will be taken, and at what cost. 
Is it a fact that a private offer to correct the problem was made several years ago and rejected even though it was substantially less than a proposal by the Department of Housing and Construction. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Was the company A.C.T. Hospital Television Rentals given certain privileges to assist it in the renting of television sets in the Canberra and Woden Valley Hospitals. 
If so, when were these privileges granted, and what were they. 
Was one of the privileges the exclusive right to make such reasonable distribution of notices as would make the business known to the patients in the hospitals. 
Was any report ever made regarding interference with the privileges granted. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Did he authorise the waiver of charges against pensioner patients in Canberra hospitals in July 1975. 
If not, were these charges waived without his authority. 
What charges were waived, and why. 
Was there a waiver of charges in August 1975, and is it continuing. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Who is financially responsible for the physical maintenance of buildings constructed under the Community Health Program. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What special precautions are being taken at what airports and seaportsin Australia against the introduction of foot and mouth disease from the Philippines, where there is an outbreak at the present time. 
Have any random checks been made to see that the quarantine procedures are in fact being observed. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What steps is the Government taking to assist the World Health Organisation in its endeavour to make 1977 World Rheumatism Year. 
Will the Government co-operate with the International League Against Rheumatism to make 1977 a valuable year by upgrading the standards of treatment, increasing the finance for research, and educating health professionals and the public in the need for and value of treatment. 
If so, what is specifically planned in each of these areas. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What progress is being made with the establishment of the maximum security offshore animal quarantine station on Cocos Island. 
) What are the major reasons for the long delay. 
Is there any contingency planning for an alternative site; if so, where will it be situated; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many delegates attended the recently concluded Women's Health Conference at Queensland University. 
How many of the total were from each State and Territory. 
How many of these were selected on (a) a health professional, (b) Government department, (c) social welfare, (d) consumer organisation, (e) women's organisations and (f) political, basis. 
How many of these had part or all of their fares and/or accommodation paid for by the Government. 
What was the basis of selection for Government assistance. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Will he accept as adequate the industry voluntary code on alcohol advertising now being introduced; if not, what action is being considered. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it considered that asthma research is receiving an acceptable percentage of the research funds of the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
Have requests for research into industrial asthma, and a weather spore survey, been refused; if so, why. 
What research projects, and at what cost, are programmed for 1 976 and the next triennium. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What drugs or pharmaceutical preparations previously available under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme will now be excluded with the $ 1 . 50 patient contribution. 
For what ailments were these drugs prescribed and what alternatives are available under the Scheme. 
What was the cost to the Government of these items. 
I ask the Minister for Health when the Government's promised free hearing aid scheme will be introduced. If it is to be this financial year, has Budget appropriation been made and if so for how much? What administrative or legislative procedures will be required before the scheme can be implemented? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Does his Department, because of its public health responsibility, have a role in the prevention of the increasing air pollution in the Australian Capital Territory caused by motor vehicle exhaust emissions. 
) Does his Department have an advisory role in this area of public health with State Health Departments or other Australian Government Departments. 
Have discussions on this subject been held with other Australian Government or State departments; if so, which departments, and when. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How is it proposed to implement the decision of the Health Ministers at the recent conference in Penh to improve the supervision of food standards in Australia. 
) What role is it proposed for the Department of Science or any of its divisions or associated organisations to have in this work. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the National Health and Medical Research Council established any maximum safety levels for lead in the atmosphere and in the bloodstream of adults and children. 
If so, are these levels accepted overseas, or is there evidence to suggest that they should be lowered. 
What is the present (a) average and (b) maximum recorded level of lead in the atmosphere in central (i) Melbourne and (ii) Sydney. 
Has the Council made any recommendations on lead additives in petrol; if so, what recommendations and to whom. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Will he encourage the introduction of a voluntary code on cigarette advertising similar to that recently introduced in the United Kingdom. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What action is he taking to implement the World Health Organisation recommendations on protecting non-smokers from exposure to smokers. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What percentage of adult Australians are smokers or are estimated to be smokers. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon Notice: 
1 ) What steps have been taken by the health authorities in Darwin to prevent refugees inadvertently introducing human or animal diseases to Australia. 
In particular, have special precautions been taken against rabies, Newcastle disease, swine fever and foot and mouth disease. 
asked the Minister for Environment upon notice: 
Has the Department received a submission from the State Rivers and Water Supply of Victoria entitled  'Salinity Control and Drainage- A strategy for Northern Victorian Irrigation and River Murray quality'. 
If so, what procedure will be followed for its assessment. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How was the $500,000 per year anti-smoking money spent in each of the 3 years of the campaign. 
Why has the amount been reduced to $100,000 for 1975-76, and how will it be spent. 
Has there been any evaluation of the expenditure to date; if so, what lessons have been learnt, and results achieved. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the difficulties faced by the Adelaide Women's Health Collective in setting up a health centre at Hindmarsh, South Australia. 
How much finance was approved for the Adelaide Women's Health Collective by his Department and the South Australian Department of Health in November 1974. 
How much of this money had actually been allocated as at 30 August 1975. 
Has his attention been drawn to any difficulties encountered by the Collective because of delays in receiving finance. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
When will the report of the Health Transport Working Party be made public. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Department investigated a new type of artificial kidney machine developed in Japan. 
If so, is it smaller, cheaper and more efficient than those presently available in Australia. 
3 ) What plans are there for its use in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Have he and the Department studied a report on coronary hean disease just completed by a Berkley team headed by  Dr Michael  Marmot. 
If so, does this research team, by studying the lifestyles of Japanese-Americans, indicate that lifestyle is more important than diet in the incidence of coronary heart diease 
Do he and the Department consider this report significant; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Are the new non-smoking seating arrangements on Australian internal air services satisfactory; if not, what action does he propose. 
Is the percentage of non-smoking seats on Australian internal air services still lower than in other countries. 
Is it a fact that the first class non-smoking section on DC9 's and 727 's is now less satisfactory than before because the first row has reverted to smoking and the non-smoking passenger is surrounded by smoke '. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Has the Department of Social Security appointed a physiotherapist to advise on physiotherapy services in nursing homes. 
If so, who is the person and how is he carrying out his duties. 
What physiotherapy services are available at the present time, under what Australian Government programs and for what groups of people. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it considered that there is any relationship between the cost of alcohol and its consumption beyond a certain point as a percentage of average weekly earnings. 
If so, what evidence from Australia or other countries is available to justify this relationship. 
3 ) What is considered to be the best way to reduce excessive alcohol consumption. 
asked the Minister for Environment, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the present position of the various working parties of the River Murray Commission. 
) When will the reports be presented. 
What action has been taken to implement the recommendations of any reports already presented. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. Yesterday the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  when replying to a Dorothy Dix question from the honourable member for Evans  (Mr Mulder)  claimed that the information I gave the House on Thursday night concerning Australian Capital Territory hospitals was incorrect. The Minister is incorrect. In the House on Thursday night I referred to figures from the Minister's own departmental estimates, division 327, which showed quite clearly that the Department's contribution to the Canberra Hospital will be reduced from $10,570,000 to $7,660,000 and to the Woden Valley Hospital from $7,443,700 to $6,056,000. 1 acknowledged that the estimates stated that this was because of Medibank funding of 50 per cent of the total costs. The Minister stated in the House yesterday that the Budget allocation for the 2 hospitals had increased by 28 per cent. The Minister should check whether his figure relates to all ACT health expenditure, including Medibank, which comes from another department, and not to the hospitals. Alternatively he should instruct his department - 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Did he state in a letter in the  Canberra Times  of 8 September 1975 that once medical practitioners accept sessional appointments to Canberra hospitals, their pensioner patients would be able to choose to be treated by them on entering hospital, and get free inpatient care and accommodation. 
If so, does this indicate that special sessional arrangements will be made for Canberra, whereby the hospital patient will be able to retain his own doctor, which are contrary to the sessional arrangements required of the States; if so, has this been approved by the Minister in charge of Medibank, and will it be extended to the States; if not, what does he mean. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade the following question, upon notice: 
Has New Zealand maintained the export price for skim milk powder in terms of United States dollars, as promised, since the 1 5 per cent devaluation. 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
Did the ABC recently conduct a two day Conference on Science and Broadcasting. 
If so, how much did the conference cost the ABC, and how many people had their travel and accommodation costs paid for by the ABC. 
What was the main purpose of the conference. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) What has been the hourly or mileage cost calculation used in the answers recently provided on the cost of official and ministerial car transport. 
What is the present hourly rate imputed by the Department of the Capital Territory and by his Department in the provision of this transport. 
If there is a significant difference between the two departments, why is this so. 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
What progress has been made with the implementation of the Prime Minister's May 1974 election promise of an additional radio network for the ABC in the majority of rural areas that now receive a single ABC service. 
-The honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)- 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. Original question resolved in the affirmative. Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) When was the small working group established by the National Health and Medical Research Council to test the method for a survey of alcohol associated illness and facilities for its treatment in Australia. 
When will it be known if this method is satisfactory. 
When will a full scale survey be undertaken. 
Have the States promised their co-operation in this survey. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice. 
1 ) What steps have been taken to establish a Trade Commissioner's Office in the Soviet Far East at either Vladivostock, Khabarovsk or Nakhodka. 
Is it considered that there should be a Trade Commissioner in this area in addition to the one in Moscow. 
asked the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) What acreage of fruit trees in each of the following categories in each of the States have been removed under the Fruitgrowing Reconstruction Scheme: (a) apples (b) fresh pears (c) canning pears (d) apricots and (e) peaches. 
What was the average price per acre compensation in each of the categories in each of the States. 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
Further to the answer to question No. 2751 where he stated that the ABC checks to ensure that the lateline radio program is balanced, what balance has been provided to the leftwing and anti-religious nature of some of the programs by providing time for rightwing and pro-religious groups. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice. 
What is the expected print run of the Government's new drug journal  The Australian Prescriber. 
What is the estimated annual cost of producing, printing and mailing this publication. 
Has the Government considered using the existing medical and pharmaceutical journals for distributing additional drug information without this additional cost. 
4 ) Who will receive the publication. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Further to Question No. 25 17 relating to membership of the Interskola organisation which studies the problems of education in sparsely populated rural areas, does his Department exchange views on this matter with other countries with similar problems or belong to other organisations interested in education in rural areas. 
Is it considered that the Australian or State Departments of Education would increase their understanding of these problems by membership of Interskola 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What is the criteria for the provision of free spectacles, and how are they provided. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What progress has been made with the implementation of the Prime Minister's May 1974 election promise of a domiciliary dental service for the chronically ill and frail aged. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Will the new National Acoustic Laboratory at Chatswood be also used for the assembly and testing of hearing aids. 
If not, where will this be done once the Laboratory moves from its present site. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the incidence of skin cancer is higher among people on polyunsaturated diets. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Are United Kingdom qualified nurses accepted in all States of Australia, or are there some States which do not recognise British standards. 
If some States do not recognise them, is there any reason why they should not be recognised. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the National Health and Medical Research Council investigated and made recommendations on the use of analgesics. 
If so, when, and what are the recommendations. 
Does he accept the recommendations, and are his statements in accord with the recommendations. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
With reference to the Fawnmac Companies, what reason was given for the increase in net profit from $62 1 ,8 1 9 for 1972-73 to $1,327,1 19 in 1974-75 at a time when pharmaceutical manufacturing companies were suffering a profit squeeze. 
Did the partners take a salary from enterprise; if so, how much. 
Was there a major export order for a particular product which boosted profit for 1 year; if so, and if this product was penicillin, from which manufacturer was it obtained. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
With reference to the purchase of the Fawnmac Companies, 
what was the value of stock, and on what basis was it valued, 
what was the value of the promotional material, 
what was the amount of unappropriated profits in the business at the time of purchase by the Government, 
d ) were there any loans from the Lowe family or estate; if so, what amount, 
what was the original value of the land and what value was listed for the purchase by the Government, and 
what was the percentage of gross profit made in each year since 1970. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the manager of the Fawnmac Companies written to suppliers of drug materials to the effect that as the Company is now Australian Government owned, it should receive special treatment 
If so, has the letter also been sent to overseas suppliers, including those in Eastern Europe which do not observe the patent conventions. 
Will there be privileged treatment given to the Companies by his Department in processing applications to import drug material. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it considered that there are any preparations on the Pharmaceutical Benefits List which could be removed because they are not particularly effective, have possible side effects or dependency complications, or are for everyday complaints. 
Is it considered that there are any preparations which are generally available by prescription which should be restricted; if so, what are they. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Did the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories, earlier in 1975, terminate a contract with the Fawnmac Companies and sign a contract with Sigma for penicillin tablets. 
asked the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1) Did the former Minister for Agriculture give approval for the expenditure of up to $40,000 from dairy stabilisation funds for a special study of the dairy industry. 
If so, was the former Minister aware that Spectrum International Marketing Services Pty. Ltd., was to conduct the study. 
Was the former Minister also aware of the possible link between that Company and leading members of dairy industry organisations. 
What criteria did the company use to select the five man 'think tank' team who conducted the study. 
How much were these men paid, and what expenses were provided. 
How many of these men were appointed to the Australian Dairy Corporation by the former Minister. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
1 ) Is canned fruit included in the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement. 
Are there any restrictions on the sale of Australian canned fruit in New Zealand; if so why. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that although approval of initial evaluation applications for new therapeutic drugs have been accelerated they still take on average 12 months longer than similar drugs submitted to the FDA in the United States. 
With the increased number of drug applications released for clinical trials, is there now a shortage of suitable ' pharmacologists which will mean a delay of up to S years before some will be available for marketing registration. 
If so, what is the Government doing to overcome this long delay. 
What is being done, and with what success, to obtain reciprocal arrangements with countries such as Canada, Sweden and the United States to expedite clinical evaluation procedures. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What contact and co-ordination is there between his Department and the Commissions responsible to the Minister for Education on future health manpower requirements. 
What recommendations were made to these Commissions in respect of the need for increasing the output of therapists, nurses, dentists and medical practitioners, and how successful were they for the 1976-78 period. 
) Did it become obvious that the necessary increased capacity would not be provided; if so, did he personally intervene with the Minister for Education. 
Is it considered that the long term effectiveness of the Community Health Program and the School Dental Scheme will be reduced, unless there is an early increase in capacity in these areas of health manpower. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) When considering the purchase of the Fawnmac Companies, was he or the Australian Industry Development Corporation aware that the Companies had been offered for sale in 1972-73 for about $2m. 
Did he or the AIDC ascertain the price paid for the Companies from the Lowe family; if so, what was the figure; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the National Health and Medical Research Council provide a research grant for the investigation of the 'cot death phenomenon' at Sydney University. 
If so, has this grant now been cancelled. 
Is any Council financed research now being conducted into this problem. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Police and Customs, upon notice: 
1 ) What has been the level of imports of the various varieties of cheese, and from which countries have they come, in the last 4 years for which figures are available. 
2 ) When were the anti-dumping duties removed from the importation of non-cheddar cheese. 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
Has he any definite proposals for the establishment of access radio stations for Shepparton following statements he recently made in that city. 
) If so, what are they, and do they include ethnic radio. 
Have any requests been received from local groups; if so, which groups. 
If any stations are approved, who will provide the finance for their establishment and running costs. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. The discovery of oriental fruit fly and fowl plague in Australia indicates the vulnerability of Australia to exotic diseases and pests. Blue tongue is probably the most potentially dangerous or disastrous such disease that could enter Australia. Will we have to wait for the construction of the maximum security laboratory at Geelong before stocks of blue tongue vaccine can be produced or stored in Australia? 
-In bringing forward for discussion this matter of public importance the Opposition cites 2 points but in the discussion it fails to substantiate either of them. The 2 points the Opposition has raised are, firstly, conflicting statements on the future of Medibank and, secondly, the failure to specify future operations. On the first point relating to conflicting statements, the statements by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  who are the only 2 people to make statements that one can say are statements that one can listen to, are quite clear on this matter. The Minister for Health quoted both those statements to the House this morning. It is symptomatic of Labor's living in the past and its bitterness at the fact that it lost the election that its supporters have not bothered to check the Governor-General's Speech made last Tuesday. Perhaps because the word 'GovernorGeneral' appears at the top of that Speech they are not prepared even to read it. The statement by the Prime Minister and the GovernorGeneral's Speech are quite clear- Medibank will continue but there will be a review. The review will be on the efficiency of the operations of Medibank in the sense of cost control. I think that is of interest to all Australians in view of the massive Budget deficit. Secondly, the review will be on the basis that we have to provide health care for Australians. I do not see any conflict in that at all. 
If one wants to look at conflict and conflicting statements perhaps one should look at whether or not the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  is going to be a short term leader or a long term leader, because I do not think that one has been sorted out. If one wants to look at some more conflicting statements by Labor supporters one can look at what they said on inflation and unemployment when they came to office and compare it with what happened with inflation and unemployment. I think Labor should be a little careful when it suggests that there are conflicting statements because it has a fairly bad track record in this regard. 
The honourable member for Maribymong  (Dr Cass)  said there was a need on our part to clarify the relationship between private health insurance and Medibank. I think the people of Australia deserve to have this matter clarified because by continuing to belong to health insurance funds in massive proportions they themselves were saying that they did not accept the statements of the previous Government that there was no longer a need to belong to private health insurance funds. If one looks at the percentage of people around Australia who are still taking out private insurance one will see that the amount of money involved is massive. I think if anybody is to make a clarification, Labor itself should clarify its attitude in view of the attitude that the people of Australia reveal by continuing to belong to these private organisations. 
The fact that people continue to belong to private health insurance funds also shows up the false points in the argument put forward by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  The honourable member was saying that, added together, the cost of the private health insurance section and the Government section of health insurance would be more than the cost of Medibank. But the honourable member's estimated cost of Medibank was based only on what the Government hoped it would cost without any belief or calculation or to the number of people who would continue to belong to the private health funds. I will just leave that point for a minute because Medibank definitely is costing more. On departmental estimates, because of increased utilisation of services and costs, it will cost $840m more than was originally anticipated by Labor. If one does the same sums, which the honourable member for Oxley does not care to hear because he is now leaving the House, and adds together the Government cost of Medibank and the continuing private health insurance costs, the total cost for health care to the Australian public is massive compared with what it was before the introduction of Medibank. 
The honourable member for Oxley has said also that in the first 7 months of the operation of Medibank there has been only a 40 per cent outlay of the original estimated cost. The honourable member for Oxley was being far less than honest in giving the reasons why that had happened. Firstly, there was the late entry into the scheme by some States, some of which was deliberately engineered by himself as the Minister and his followers. When one considers the entry requirements into the scheme and the row that occurred in respect of the entry by New South Wales, which is the most important State in Australia so far as the scheme is concerned, and considers also the fact that no State in Australia was paid any of the money owing to it for the hospital side of Medibank before the December election, they will see that the Labor Government had given instructions that there was to be no payment to the States for the hospital side of Medibank until this new year. So it is pretty obvious why in the early months of its operation the cost of Medibank had been running at less than what had been stated in the Budget. The reason for this was the great overrun in the Budget deficit that Labor had created. 
The Labor Party also suggests in this matter of public importance a failure on the part of the Government to specify how the Medibank scheme will continue to operate. How at any time has anyone in Australia had an opportunity to know how the scheme is operating? To be fair to Labor, it is a new scheme and therefore there is a certain settling down period, but when one looks at a whole range of points which were not settled by Labor one would clearly support the need for an early review. I think that if Labor had been returned to power and if its supporters were honest, in this discussion today they would say that a review would be necessary. In the time remaining to me in this discussion I have only to cite a whole series of points to make it very clear that Medibank as it is operating now is not a clear health care program for Australia. Opposition members know this. In spite of what the honourable member for Oxley says about there being no substantial evidence, there is plenty of substantial evidence. Let me quickly deal with a few of the points. 
First of all we were told that repayments on claims would take about 5 working days. All of us as members of Parliament would have great stacks of letters from people saying that 3 months after a claim had been filed they still had not been paid. There is a point. Last week I learnt of a person who has written to the Health Insurance Commission on 2 occasions over the last 6 months but has not received a reply to either letter and still has not received a Medibank card. 
Let me deal with the percentage figures on utilisation and over-utilisation that is becoming apparent in the Medibank scheme. There are abuses by both doctors and patients. Surely they are points that need investigation and review. Quite definitely, one thing which this Government has already done but which Labor failed to do for a specific and clear future operation of Medibank and the whole health care picture was to bring the essential points of health care in Australia back under the one department instead of having the hopelessly fragmented arrangement that Labor had. At least now- I congratulate the Government on this- Medibank, nursing homes and general health are all back with the Department of Health. If we are going to have a health scheme in this country and a total health care picture we have to have a uniform policy on hospitals, medical care, nursing homes and health insurance. Without this we are not going to get to first base. That is precisely why Labor was not able to get to first base with its fragmented scheme. 
Let me deal with some of the anomalies in Labor's scheme. Labor was saying that a person has the inalienable right to go to a doctor and pay nothing, yet Labor required that the cost of a prescription for medicine obtained as a result of a visit to a doctor was to be increased to $1.50. That by itself is a nice little anomaly. I will go a little further. Under Medibank, if a person goes to the outpatients' clinic at a hospital he can get a prescription without cost. On the one hand it is claimed that the people of Australia should pay $1.50 or $2 per prescription but, on the other hand, if a person is lucky enough to live next to a public hospital which has an outpatients' department he can go there and get a prescription at no cost; I will bet that that is leading to some nice over-utilisation at the present time at which this committee will want to look. 
Let us have a look at a few other anomalies that this so called overall health scheme had set up. What is the position with the provision of prostheses, orthoses, limbs and parts of bodies under Medibank when in certain States if a person is in a hospital he will receive thempresumably the cost is then ticked up to the Commonwealth on the 50 per cent basis- yet there is no provision for them if he goes to a general practitioner or some form of outpatients department? That by itself is a nice little anomaly and conflict. Also one would want to review the extent of Federal and State duplication and the information that is being kept. The problem of discrimination is built into the Labor Government's scheme in the case of a person who goes to the private section of a public hospital and a person who goes to the private section of a private hospital. That is a nice little anomaly and discrimination against the bulk of Australians. 
Let me turn to one of the more deliberate forms of deceit of the previous Government. At the time when the Canadian Budget was being introduced the Canadians were saying that their scheme, on which ours was supposedly modelled, was proving too expensive and they were going to alter it. At that time we had the head of their health insurance commission out here saying how lovely the medical garden was back in Canada. I believe that it was a deliberate deceit by Labor when in government to cite the Canadian scheme to us as the be all and end all of health care when the Canadians were saying in their Budget that it was costing too much, that the provinces were being given notice and that a review would be undertaken. 
I draw the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry to the already depressed state of the manufacturing sector of the dairy industry. Prices presently received by farmers are 20 per cent or 30 per cent less than the prices received last year and are now at the same level as they were 25 years ago. In spite of Australia's having the most efficient dairy industry in the world, next to New Zealand, this is an insufficient return in the present inflationary situation. Is the Minister aware that because of the common agriculture policy of the European Economic Community and the present world over-supply of skim milk powder the price to farmers could fall to that received in the Depression 40 years ago, with a complete breakdown of orderly marketing of city milk and disastrous social and economic consequences for rural Australia? 
-I wish to be associated with the Australia- Japan Foundation Bill because I believe the Foundation will be important in maintaining and developing good relations between our 2 countries. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  referred in his second reading speech when introducing the Bill to the 1957 trade agreement between Australia and Japan. He referred to that agreement as being a bold and historic step, a statement with which I would agree. One of the major movers for that trade agreement was my predecessor in the seat of Murray,  Sir John  McEwen. I believe that the Australia-Japan trade agreement at that time was one of the great achievements of that great Australian,  Sir John  McEwen, an achievement of national and international significance. I would place with that achievement 2 other things that he achieved for this nation and for the world. One was the international commodity agreement for quite a range of goods, to bring some stability, for at least a period of time, in some markets and to include better food aid provisions in foreign aid arrangements. 
I believe that in these international commodity agreements, which included food aid conventions, he for the first time encouraged wealthy nations that may be food importers rather than food exporters to share some of the burden of foreign food aid. I believe as a result of that, at that time at least and for some years afterwards, there was a better basis and arrangement for food aid for underdeveloped countries than exists at present. The report of the committee on the proposed Australia-Japan Foundation, which is referred to as the Crawford report after its Chairman, came out in February 1975. As a matter of coincidence, in one of today's newspapers it is reported: 
Australia- Japan report timed to the minute. 

 Sir John Crawford, Chancellor of the Australian National University, and  Dr Saburo  Okita,  chairman  of the Japan Economic Research Centre, are to present to their governments the same historic report on the 2 countries' relations at the same time. The weighty document took 3 years to produce and involved ISO economists. 
The article contains more information and states that the report will be released on 28 April. I think as a matter of coincidence that this points to the role that  Sir John  Crawford has played in establishing a greater understanding between our 2 countries. The purposes of the Foundation are clearly stated in the Bill. Basically they are to promote study of each country's language, culture, traditions, geography, etc and to encourage visits between the 2 countries by various groups of people. The general points of the legislation have been canvassed and I would agree with those general points. 
I want just briefly to refer to some specific points concerning the importance of a rural input to the Foundation. I believe that it is most important for the future of our 2 countries that the rural sectors of both countries get to know each other better. As the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  mentioned in his speech, the basis of Australia-Japan relations at present is economic. He went on to state that Japan is our major market and we are Japan's third major market. Rural exports from Australia are very significant in the commodities traded between the 2 countries. When one looks at some of the activities in Japan in considering whether certain trade will be allowed one realises that rural politics is of considerable importance. One can say that both in the Liberal Democratic Party Government of Japan and in this Government there is a weighty rural voice which will, to a certain extent, modify and change the policies and the attitudes of the Governments to each other. Because of this I believe it is most important that the rural industry organisations, rural politicians and rural people generally in each of these countries get to understand each other's problems and attitudes better. 
It is the hope of rural Australians that Japan will, if it has not already- it certainly has not to the extent that we would have hoped- replace Britain as the major market for so many of our products. In the last week a group of 23 Japanese farmers was in Australia. I think that is the sort of thing that is important from a rural point of view. I believe the leaders of our State and national farmers' organisations and commodity organisations should be spending more time in Japan. Perhaps of more importance than this is that their Japanese counterparts should be spending more time in Australia because of the complicationssometimes unnecessary complicationsthat can arise in our attitudes to each other because of this lack of understanding. 
I should like to give one example of this. As the honourable member for Bradfield mentioned, the Japanese shut the door on our beef exports to that country in January 1974. There was a build-up of stocks of beef in Japan. The rural lobby is also very important in the Japanese political situation. There are quite a large number of Japanese beef farmers even if the number of cattle they have is not large. As a result of this Japan has introduced the LIPC- I think it is called the Livestock Improvement Promotion Corporation- which has I believe the general effect of forcing an artifically low price for beef in Australia for producers as opposed to an artifically high price for that same beef when it is sold to the consumer in Japan. It also breaks the even flow of the beef. The difference is pocketed in Japan. The Corporation also restricts the flow or the possibility of sale of chilled beef to Japan. This was a most important aspect of the beef trade we were developing. 
I think credit is due to the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  because on this trip to Japan, as well as getting some greater flexibility in quotas, he was able to obtain some concessions on chilled beef. Surely there is an alternative way of safeguarding the interests and the rights of the Japanese beef producer. I recognise that he has these rights. But surely they do not have to be at the expense of the Australian beef producer who is not able to obtain a fair market price for his product which is later sold at an artifically high price. This raises the question of the use of the 
British deficiency payments system at the Japanese end to assist Japan without hurting us. That is just one example. One could go on dealing with quite a range of other products just in the rural sector apart from the mineral sector and all the other sectors of our trade between the 2 countries. No doubt Japan has the same points to put to us in these matters. 
In relation to the question of a rural voice or rural recognition, I suggest that, as the Foundation will consist of not less than five or more than 15 members, it would be most appropriate that least one of those members be an eminent rural person. I note that the members are to be appointed on a personal basis rather than on a representative basis. I think that is a good idea, but I am sure the rural community has some eminent people who in their own personal right would be eligible for appointment. 
The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman),  who spoke earlier in the debate, has the added advantage of just recently having been to Japan.  His  speech showed the advantages to be gained from this first hand contact. I believe that is another example of the benefit of greater contact between our 2 countries. I hope that opportunities are provided for members of other parties of this House also to be able to study Japan and for Japanese members of Parliament to be able to come to Australia more frequently than has happened in the past. I support the legislation. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Further to the answer to my question No. 3347 (Hansard 4 November 1975, page 2771), in which part (5) is not fully answered, how much were the members of the 'think tank' paid. 
For how many days were they employed as 'think tank' members, what was the salary or wage paid, what was the daily expense allowance and how much was paid for travelling expenses. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Have clinical audiologists requested and been refused specifications and eligibility guidelines for any of the National Acoustic Laboratory behind-the-ear hearing aids or the high powered model being imported from the United States of America. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Which company was the successful tenderer for the provision of 6000 hearing aids for the National Acoustic Laboratory. 
How many companies provided tenders, and who were they. 
Was the successful one the lowest tender. 
Is it a fact that this company has no technical or support or service representation in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What section of what Act provided the legal authority for the purchase of the Fawnmac group of companies by the Australian Industry Development Corporation. 
Has the purchase been completed, and the final payment been made. 
If not, how much is still to be paid, and when is it anticipated that this will be done. 
What is the final price. 
Who is the effective owner of Fawnmac, i.e., the Australian Industry Development Corporation, the Pharmaceutical Corporation, or some other Government department or authority. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
Does the Minister intend altering the postal vote application form to correct the present anomaly whereby many Australian servicemen and tourists are unable to vote if they truthfully answer the section on permanent residence. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Can he say whether recent changes to the Farm Credit Act of Canada will allow a person in that country who is under 35 years of age to borrow over 90 per cent of the value of a farm up to a maximum of $ 150,000. 
Will he ensure that a study is made of this Act and of similar European schemes before finalising arrangements for the Young Farmers Establishment Scheme. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice:  . ( 1 ) Is it a fact that women more than 6 months pregnant are automatically entitled to a postal vote. 
If so, is this entitlement publicised. 
If it is publicised, how was it publicised prior to the last election. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
Who were the members of the River Murray working party which has now been abolished. 
What sum will be saved by its abolition, and how will this be achieved. 
Have all the reports on various aspects of River Murray problems been completed; if so, when will they be made public; if not, when will they be completed. 
How is it envisaged that River Murray problems will now be investigated and remedial action taken. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Was the Taxation Office instructed to send a questionnaire to those filling in their first taxation return as a primary producer, if so, was this a new procedure. 
Was a standard questionnaire prepared; if so, by whom; if not, who was responsible in each State, and was any check made to ensure that the questions were relevant. 
I congratulate the Minister for Primary Industry on the speed with which after 13 December he responded to the industry's call for help. He reconsidered a badly conceived proposal. He obtained the cooperation of 3 State governments, and he has introduced legislation into this Parliament, all in a short period of time. Many ill considered statements have been made so far in this debate, including the wording of the Labor Party's amendment. I want to answer those statements by reminding those honourable members present of developments in the industry and in Parliament over the last few years. The industry was a most prosperous one in the 1950s and the 1960s. There was a pack of about 10 million cartons, of which 70 per cent was exported. Four million cartons went to the United Kingdom alone at very profitable prices. 
The first crack appeared with Britain's devaluation in 1967, which in itself makes a mockery of suggestions that there was a 10 year crisis. Later Britain entered the European Economic Community, but exports continued at much the same rate until the 1970s. Then in the early 1970s, for a variety of reasons, they dropped from about 4 million cartons a year to the United Kingdom to 2!6 million cartons. Contrary to the Labor Party amendment- which claims that the Liberal-Country Party here in Canberra recklessly fostered over-expansion- I remind all honourable members of the warnings given in this place by my predecessor,  Sir John  McEwen. in 1965, after Britain's second unsuccessful attempt to join the European Economic Community, he warned the canning fruit industry of the danger of increased plantings. However, the management at that time in control of the SPC Ltd cannery, was not very keen to listen to these warnings. It gave contrary advice. We all know what happened to SPC Ltd a few years ago. Fortunately its management now is very good. 
The closer settlement policies of the Victorian Government at that time also were contrary to the warnings given by the Federal Government. These policies were contrary both in the dairy industry and in the fruit industry. In fact, the Victorian Government is still fostering closer settlement for dairying at this time of crisis for this industry. With the contraction of the United Kingdom market the previous Liberal-Country Party Government in 1971-72 introduced a treepull scheme. Its main objective was to reduce the acreage of fresh apples and canned pears to adjust to the reality of Britain's entry to the European Common Market. 
One of the problems facing fruit growers was a severe means test. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  who was the Minister also at that time, on two occasions eased the means test but it was still a very difficult test for a person to pass. It was not helped by the Victorian Government's initial lack of flexibility in applying that scheme but credit should be given to the Victorian Government for its assistance with the scheme. We hope that it will assist in making the new scheme a success. Nevertheless, acreage was reduced. 
In the 1972 election the Labor Party, particularly its spokesman on agriculture,  Dr Rex  Patterson, said in the House during the debate on the Bill that Labor would ease the means test on the tree-pull scheme to make it easier for people to remove fruit trees. In fact, in my electorate, because of the concentration of Labor support and its promises of easing the means test, the 1972 election became known as the rotten fruit election. What happened after Labor was elected in December 1972? Absolutely nothing happened. The Labor Party did nothing to improve the tree-pull scheme. I suggest that the 2 Labor spokesmen on this matter might do well to remember that the Labor Government ignored the requests of fruitgrowers for an easing of the means test so that the fruit acreage could be reduced in the Goulburn Valley. It reneged on its promise made in the 1972 election. Members of the Opposition should not criticise fruit growers or the Liberal-Country Party Government for a lack of reality in reconstruction and diversification. 
Let us have a look at diversification in which the Labor Party was interested at that time. The Ardmona Fruit Products Co-operative Ltd spent more than $2m in installing a fruit juice plant of the most modern type in the world to concentrate a variety of juices- particularly pear juices- so that more pears would be utilised. That cannery had just signed a contract with a well-known soft drink manufacturer for the use of pear juice in soft drink when the Labor Government, in its 1973 Budget, abolished the sales tax exemption for aerated waters when 5 per cent of fruit juice was added. 
Members of the Labor Party should not talk to the fruit industry about what it did not do to help itself with diversification. The Labor Party caused a capital loss of $2m- in a cannery that had been encouraged to diversify. In 1973 when the Labor Party was in government it said: 'We will compensate the industry $5m for its loss of sales for fruit juice'. Very little of that $5m compensation has ever got through to the fruit juice industry in Victoria, Tasmania, Western Australia or New South Wales. None of it, to my knowledge, has reached the Goulburn Valley. I would like to know what happened to that $5m. Perhaps the Labor Party could tell me. Is it a fact that most of that $5m was diverted from fruit juice compensation by the Labor Government to assist the price for exported apples from Tasmania in early 1975? This is what the industry believes. If that is the case it certainly did not do the Labor Party any good because it lost all its seats in Tasmania. But what a sellout for an industry which the Labor Government told to diversify. The industry diversified and that Government removed the incentive which caused it to diversify. It then promised compensation but never provided it. What a cheek the Labor Party has when it tells the industry that it has not been trying to do things to help itself. 
In 1974 there was a respite in this problem of fruit marketing. Many in the Labor Party were quick to claim credit at that time and say that because of their policies we were able to sell all our agricultural products around the world. They were not saying at that time that there was an over-production of canned fruit and, therefore, that the acreage should be restricted. By 1974-75 the pack had not increased; it was down to 8 million cartons. Exports were down to about 4 million cartons, of which the United Kingdom took about 2 million, or a little over 2 million. In other words, there had been a considerable adjustment in a few years. I want to remind Labor members here that fruit is not an annual crop that is planted and reaped at the end of the year. There is a long waiting period between planting and picking. There is a very real problem also in deciding whether to accept that there is not a future market or to continue in the hope that there might be a market again in a year or two. If a grower does pull out the trees he has had it for another six or seven years, if he has not gone bankrupt in the process. 
In 1975 there was a price war with a further collapse in overseas markets and $3m to $4m was lost on that market. Which party formed the Government at that time? It was our friendly, famous Labor Government in Canberra. What did it do to bring the industry into line? It had power through the Reserve Bank advances to stop that price war but it did not do so. It is of no use the Labor Party criticising the fruit industry for that price war. 
Let us consider the reasons for the loss of those overseas markets during the 1970s. The first and most important reason, definitely, was Britain's entry into the European Economic Community. We changed from a situation of tariff preferences in our favour to preferences and levies against us. The second reason was increased freight rates. The third was devaluations- and this was probably the most important factor. These devaluations have occurred between ourselves and the United Kingdom, between South Africa and the United Kingdom and between ourselves and South Africa. As a result, in a little over 3 years the price at which South Africa could sell fruit on the United Kingdom market dropped in relation to our price by over 30 per cent. What other industry in Australia could withstand that sort of competition brought about by devaluations? It resulted in a differential of over 30 per cent in 3 years. I wonder how a Public Service would get on with that sort of drop in 3 years. 
The fourth reason was runaway inflation in Australia, fuelled and stoked by the Labor Government. Our inflation rate was particularly high when compared with the rate in South Africa and the United States, our 2 major competitors. The fifth reason was wage decisions in Australia. In one year the wages for female employees in the canneries- they are the major employees in the fruit canneries- increased by over 50 per cent. How can an industry quietly accept that situation and still be profitable? In the latter half of 1975 there were 2 developments- the Australian Industry Development Corporation investigation and fruit loans. I want to compliment  Senator Wriedt,  the then Minister for Agriculture, for commissioning the AIDC investigation. I think it was an important development. That report was available in September but the Labor Government did nothing with it. To my knowledge it was not presented to Cabinet, it was not presented properly to the industry, and in fact it was a secret document. It still is, unfortunately. There was no indication at that time of acceptance either by the Government or by the industry that the proposal would solve the problems of the industry. That proposal is now out of date. It is out of date because of the South African devaluation in relation to the United Kingdom in September and the United Kingdom devaluation in the last couple of weeks. Before these things happened fruit industry people were estimating that it was possible stall to export a million cartons of fruit to the United Kingdom. Now there is no market in the United Kingdom which provides a profitable return for Australian canned fruit exports. In approximately five to six years our market in the United Kingdom has dropped from 4 million cartons to no market. The adjustment required in that respect alone is tremendous. 
This year approximately 6 million to 6'/i million cartons of canned fruit will be produced in Australia. That production has fallen from 8 million cartons last year and 10 million cartons a few years ago. Next year production is estimated to be down to 5 million cartons. There has been a contraction of tremendous magnitude in a few years. No increased production of canned fruit occurred in the period to which Labor Party spokesmen referred. As I said, there has been a considerable contraction in production. 
That fact together with the new situation resulting from devaluation, from what we can understand of the Australian Industry Development Corporation report, will affect the number of canneries that would still be viable in a future canned fruit industry in this country. When the present Minister for Primary Industry was informed that the canneries could no longer accept that report as a basis for any negotiations, to his credit he called, early this year, for an updating of that report. There has been to my understanding one complication since then in that Manjimup has now been included in the new report. It was not in the original report. I understand that the updated report is completed. I hope that it is printed and now is ready for release, and that as much of it as possible is made public in the near future. I hope that it is not kept secret as the previous document was. 
The second development was the fruit loans. For some months in the latter half of 1975 the Labor Government had a proposal before it. It did nothing with it. The matter was passed on to the new Government. The proposal consisted of a reduction to 70 per cent in the official fruit price, a 2-year repayment period, and a first call by the Government on that repayment rather than further advances by the canneries. That proposal was unacceptable to the industry. I hope that this experience is a lesson to the Department of Primary Industry. It demonstrates that it should discuss such proposals more with the industry concerned than it does before they are presented to the Minister. 
After State and Federal members of Parliament and industry leaders pointed out the unacceptable features of the scheme the Minister, to his credit, changed the terms of the proposal. The price was reduced to 85 per cent of the original price. In his second reading speech the Minister made it clear that canneries are expected to pay above the 85 per cent if they are able to. Of course legal action can be taken by any grower when less than 85 per cent is paid. Unless he has signed a document which some canneries are forcing growers to sign- by doing so, a grower signs away his entitlement to payment above the 85 per cent- a grower can probably take legal action for the final 15 per cent payment. But, to be fair to the canneries, they must remain viable if the fruit industry is to be sustained. The reduction in the official price certainly has reduced the loss significantly in the 3 canneries in the Goulburn Valley. 
Yes. There is the requirement of 85 per cent being the official price. 
-Well, I do not think it has to be because there is always the requirement that they must pay the Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee price. Now, the repayment period for the loans themselves was increased to  2Vi  years. Hopefully, as the honourable member for Angas pointed out, the repayment holiday for the first 12 months should allow the canneries to make further payments beyond 70 per cent. But the point I make is that this, after all, is only a loan. It is a loan at 10 per cent. It is not particularly generous when one compares its provisions with those detailed in the Superannuation Bill which is designed to provide superannuation benefits for Commonwealth employees and which was introduced today. Those proposals were an example of a subsidy if ever there was one, and an unfair one by private sector standards. So I do not believe anybody in the hallowed halls of Canberra can talk about subsidies available in other areas of Australia. 
Now I wish to refer to the point made by the Opposition spokesman on agriculture with respect to the consumption of canned fruit in Australia. Our consumption is the second highest in the world, I am told, after the United States. The figures provided earlier were in relation to production on the basis of population, not consumption. There are no figures to indicate that consumption increased as a result of the price war. In other words consumption is almost as high as it possibly can go. Contrary to what the Opposition spokesman said, virtually all of the pack is of export standard. Anything bought through the ordinary shopping system would be of export standard. 
The industry is putting its house in order and has been for several years. Just recently an equalisation and domestic price agreement was reached between the major canners. I understand that as a result of the Canned Fruits Board meeting today the domestic price agreement document is being forwarded to the canneries tomorrow. Also there has been established a body called the Goulburn Valley Canners which will provide a single marketing arrangement for SPC Ltd, Ardmona Fruit Products Co-operative Co. Ltd and Riverland Fruit Products Cooperative Ltd to reduce the overheads in that area. In addition Henry Jones and Co. Pty Ltd and Kyabram Preserving Co. Ltd have linked up for single marketing. A question mark must be placed beside Letona 's ability in the future to remain out of a marketing arrangement for efficiency's sake. The grower organisations have called a number of meetings to demonstrate their sincerity in reconstruction in the industry. They called a meeting of all the co-operative canneries some time ago on the question of price-cutting and equalisation. They had a mass meeting in the Mooroopna area recently in which they asked the growers to put direct to the canneries what are the requirements of the fruit industry from a grower point of view for the sake of the industry. 
Certain points are clear. One is that there has been contraction in production for some years. As I said, next year production will be 5 million cartons, which is down from 10 million cartons only a few years ago. And remember that fruit is not an annual crop. The industry in my view has been responsible; it called for a tree-pull scheme. Admittedly the original tree-pull scheme was to be more generous but when State governments would not assist with it a harsher means test was required. The industry itself wants a tree-pull scheme and I hope that the Minister for Primary Industry will be reintroducing a tree-pull scheme as soon as possible because there has to be one in operation by May when spraying and pruning become essential. But I hope that it will be more flexible and more appropriate than it was last time. It will be difficult because alternative land use at the present time is virtually non-existent. The honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  should learn a little bit more about climatic variations and requirements for soya beans before he starts talking. The last time the tree-pull scheme was in operation there was the alternative use of land for dairying and beef. Those alternative land uses are not there. Nevertheless, the industry must contract and the industry recognises this and will, but Government itself must help. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice:  
1 ) What is the present number of medical graduates from the existing medical schools in Australia. 
What increase was recommended to the Australian Universities Commission and by that Commission, in the existing schools, and what new schools are planned for the 1976-78 period. 
What number of students will now be allowed for each of the 3 years 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What is the present number of graduates from the existing dental schools in Australia. 
What increase was recommended to the Australian Universities Commission and by that Commission. 
3 ) What number of students will now be allowed for each of the years 1976, 1977 and 1978. 
Is it a fact that unless urgent action is taken to increase the number of dental graduates there will be an acute shortage of dentists by 1990. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
As the China Antiquities Exhibition has now been to Great Britain and the United States, is he able to say when Australia can expect to see it. 
-When will the Minister for Primary Industry be able to announce the Government's decision on short term aid for the depressed manufacturing sector of the dairy industry? 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Further to the answer to my question No. 3069 (Hansard, 1 October, 1975, page 1597), as there is uniform legislation enacted throughout Australia prohibiting the addition of sugar to wine, except in the case of sparkling and flavoured wines, is it unfair competition to allow wines to be imported that have had sugar added. 
Should there be health and consumer standards to protect the consumer from imported adulterated wine; if so, what action is being taken. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that telephone hand sets now being installed do not generally include an induction coil which is necessary for their use by people with hearing aids. 
If so, why were they installed in the old heavier black sets and not in the lightweight colour telephones. 
) Does an induction coil cost about 1 0 cents. 
Are they also being excluded from public telephones; if so, why. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) Was the standard CA52, a design standard for access and mobility for the handicapped, enforced by his Department for all Australian Government buildings. 
Will his Department enforce the new draft metric standard to replace CA52 once it has been approved by the Standards Association of Australia. 
asked the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the present waiting time for prostheses supplied by his Department. 
What percentage of these prostheses is supplied by (a) the Department's limb factory and (b) private manufacturers. 
-One point that should be made quite clear at the outset in this debate is that the January 1976 changes to the guidelines were actually proposed by an interdepartmental committee working party which was established by the previous Labor Government in May 1975. Its deliberations took place during the term of office of that previous Labor Government and its report came down in January and its recommendations were accepted at that time. In other words, those guidelines were the work of a committee operating during the term of office of a previous Labor Government. That same committee continued on to the present March guidelines. I think one can quite rightly ask: Would Labor have accepted those guidelines? Labor had accepted the guidelines proposed by the committee on other occasions. Obviously it had not been completely satisfied with them and asked the committee to reconvene and keep working. So I think the Labor Party should say what its attitude would be if it were in government. I believe, following logically through the sequence of events, that it would have accepted those same sensible refinements to the work test and the other guidelines. I believe that the present guidelines, as outlined last week by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  represent a continuing refinement of the guidelines and indicate the sensible deliberations of the committee. 
The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson),  who has just left the House- he obviously does not want to listen to the facts; nor did the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  who galloped out of the chamber the moment he finished speaking- referred to the matter of people being required to travel to work for one and a half hours as being one of the guidelines. I remind the honourable member for Burke in his absence that the matter of one and a half hours travelling time as a guideline was not instituted by this Government; it was instituted by the previous Government under the May 1975 guidelines. So if the honourable member wants to criticise anybody he should criticise his own Minister of the time. Let us have a look at the travelling time of ordinary working people who travel every day from Geelong to Melbourne. To my knowledge and belief the speed of the train travelling that route has not actually increased since 1905. 
I apologise to the honourable member for Corio. Also the travelling time of one and a half hours is accepted as an ordinary travelling time by those people who travel from the Blue Mountains to Sydney each day, by those people living on the Mornington Peninsula, and so on. So the honourable member for Burke is talking a lot of hooey. 
Let us look at some of the decisions made by the Labor Government. It accepted the recommendations of the interdepartmental committee in April 1974 to toughen the guidelines. The then Minister, the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  evidently was not satisfied with what was brought down in April 1974. He brought in more guidelines in May 1975. Still not satisfied he asked the committee to reconvene. Hence we have the results of its deliberations. Opposition members referred to the policy of the Labor Party. I would like to know what was the policy of the Labor Government. Was it the early April 1973 guidelines, the April 1974 guidelines, the May 1975 guidelines, or the guidelines that obviously would have been accepted if Labor had still been in power in January 1976 and March 1976. 
However, I commend Labor on one of the decisions which it made in early 1973, and that was the payment to unemployed adults of the same benefit as was paid to other social security beneficiaries. I believe that was a wise and humane decision. However, by abolishing the lesser rate for unemployed juniors- that is those under 18 years- together with the early 1973 work test guidelines, it allowed to develop considerable abuses of the system by young people. Time after time the parents of young people complained to me about their sons or daughters, who were 1 6 or 17-year old children, entering the work force as apprentices, being useful Australians for the future of Australia, receiving actually less income than their friends who had gone straight on to the adult rate of the unemployment benefit and who were making a mockery of those people who were actually working and trying to do something for their own future and for the future of Australia. That was an intolerable situation. It is no use Labor supporters saying that that was not so, because Labor belatedly recognised the monster that it had created by allowing the differential rate to reappear in the 1975 Budget. The benefit was not increased on that occasion, and I understand that the differential will widen again when the May 1976 benefit increases come into effect. 
Labor supporters claim that there has been little abuse of the system. It is acknowledged that general and accurate statistics are hard to obtain. I think perhaps that that is a reflection on the knowledge that honourable members on both sides of the House would like to have, but do not have, in this general area. The Department of Social Security conducted a survey of 112 000 beneficiaries, and one result of that survey showed that 30 per cent of payments to those people were terminated. I realise that those people were not necessarily dole cheats, as they have been called, but this does indicate a weakness in the general system. Doubts about this matter were confirmed by a private polling organisation which revealed that the general figures we have on the unemployed appear to be considerably inflated. To me the real test as to whether there have been abuses of the system is indicated by the ordinary working people themselves. They know who is cheating. They know, when they go into the pub after work and see somebody who has been sitting there all day on his unemployment benefit money, who is cheating. 
Perhaps I should rephrase that last sentence. Ordinary working people- the person who is living next door or one who lives further down the street- are the ones who have complained most bitterly about the other people who are bludging on the system. I believe that in the last election they were a significant factor in the swing to the Liberal and National Country Parties. In my own area we have had some absurd situations. At a time of record registered unemployed, or those registered for employment, in the Goulburn Valley area there has been a dearth of fruit pickers. I think that that in itself is a contradiction. I refer particularly to young people, who one cannot say are not fit and able to do such work but who felt that it was not essential to do such work- and the guidelines allowed that situation to develop. 
However, I want to be fair to the many genuine migratory workers who go to areas of seasonal work, such as my own area, before work is actually available because of seasonal conditions. They have suffered real poverty because the departments involved- the Commonwealth Employment Service and the Department of Social Security- have been too slow in assessing their situation. No doubt some of the abuses of the system will end with this tightening of the guidelines and the work test. I still feel that other forms of abuses in the unemployment system will continue until there is such a thing as a national identity card arrangement. I believe that particularly those who are receiving double payments or triple payments and those who are working and also receiving an unemployment benefit will still not be picked up by these new arrangements. I have mentioned this matter before in this House. The honourable member for Hindmarsh may have mentioned it also, but he can dissociate himself from that remark if he wants to do so. I see nothing wrong with having a national identity card system. Forms of such a system are in use in Great Britain and the United States of America. I do not think that such a system is an infringement of individual rights of privacy, unless it is linked or is capable of being linked by computer to taxation records, Medibank records, bank accounts, driving records, etc, or unless unreasonable demands are made on its use. I do not see how we can identify a person accurately without some such system. If people are genuine in talking about these things they have to consider seriously that proposition. 
I refer now to people who are voluntarily unemployed and who are to get no benefit for the first 6 weeks. I draw to the attention of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations 2 problem areas which I see. I have faced a number of problems in these areas in my electorate. Consider the case of a breadwinner who for health reasons, related either to himself or his children, is forced to move from one area to another. This happens in my electorate. People from southern Victoria move north of the Great Dividing Range because they have asthmatic problems. I believe that there should be some flexibility in the system- perhaps it is there and I have not been informed of it- to take account of these people. The second problem area relates to a breadwinner who is forced to move for employment reasons, such as to continue in employment or to get promotion, and who has a family that includes a 16-year-old or a 17-year-old who should move with the family. If such a person moves with the family, to my knowledge he or she will be voluntarily leaving his or her work and will not be eligible for unemployment benefit for 6 weeks. If I am wrong in saying that, I will be pleased to be corrected. I believe that it is another case where there should be more flexibility in the system. The system should allow for the 2 problems I have mentioned. 
I refer now to the general problem of the work test versus the income test for the unemployed. I believe that it is another indication of the unsatisfactory nature of the criteria in social service arrangements in this country. I believe that there is a reasonable system for wage and salary earners but not for self-employed people. An employer may retrench an employee to maintain profitability, and that person is picked up by the unemployment system. He is kept at some standard of living and also is available for that employer to re-employ at a later stage. In other words, society generally is supporting the maintenance of profitability of that employer. The self-employed person is not in that situation. He is not covered. He stays on and his income drops, because he has no alternative. On many occasions he cannot sell, whether he is selfemployed in a town or an a farm. The question whether such a person's departure is voluntary or forced has to be considered. 
I will give honourable members an example of this which has occurred in my area. Because dairying is at a critically low level the average milk tanker driver earns more than the farmer whose milk he is carting. If the driver is put off seasonally he is eligible for unemployment benefit but the dairy farmer- this applies particularly to the poor share farmers who probably constitute the most depressed social group in Australia at the present time- is rejected time after time for unemployment benefit. I believe that is wrong. The work test applied for selfemployed people in dairying areas- dairy farmers on this occasion- is arbitrary and wrong. I believe that the Department of Social Security and the Commonwealth Employment Service are not sympathetic in treating the selfemployed. In my area quite contradictory criteria are used and I believe that the general regulations are unfair. 
Finally, I refer to the standard of advice and service given at counters in Commonwealth Employment Service offices and Department of Social Security offices. I restrict my criticism to them only because of the limitations of this debate. I could mention the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, the war service homes people and quite a few others. Time after time people come to my office in tears or in confusion because they have been given incorrect information by people working at these counters. To be fair to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, let me say that this happens more in the Department of Social Security offices than in offices under his jurisdiction. I believe that there is something wrong with the method of employing these people or with the method of promotion. It is critically important that we have humane, sympathetic and experienced people confronting people who go to these offices. I believe that we should consider seriously the idea of providing departmental counter employees with name tags or identity tags. Time after time such people refuse to give their names when requested to do so and, when one tries to check on what has happened and to follow up a complaint in order to find out who was giving the abuse or was being rude, there is no way of doing so. 
I agree. I think such employees should have name tags, as is the case now with many private companies, so that complaints can be handled properly. In conclusion, I support the sensible and reasonable developments in the work test. I believe that if the Labor Party were honest it would say that it would be doing the same thing if it were still in power. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it considered that there is a relationship between the consumption of cigarettes and their cost beyond a certain point as a percentage of average weekly earnings. 
If so, what evidence from Australia or other countries is available to justify this relationship. 
What was the average cost of a packet of 20 cigarettes in Australia in (a) 1955(b) 1960, (c) 1965, (d) 1970 and(e) September 1975, and what was the Australian per capita consumption of cigarettes, and average weekly earnings in each of those years. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Was the National Health Act amended to allow prescription drugs to be dispensed in hospitals by other than doctors or pharmacists, excluding emergency situations in isolated areas. 
What safeguards, under Medibank, are there to prevent this happening. 
Has this already occurred in Queensland, or elsewhere; if so, what corrective action has been taken. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the percentage of National Health Scheme drugs dispensed in hospital outpatients departments increased since the introduction of Medibank; if so, by how much. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Does the Royal Australian College  of  General Practitioners in its use of the $5.5 million grant for 1975-76 for the Family Medicine Program include any instruction on the early intervention of rehabilitation with respect to alcohol or other drug addicts and the handicapped. 
Has any instruction been previously issued on this subject; if not, will one be issued in the near future. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
Who are Australia's representatives at the GATT Agricultural Group talks which began in Geneva on 22 September 1975. 
On what sub-groups, product groups and committees is Australia represented and what proposals have Australian members put to the respective groups. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
How many patrol boats will there be on duty at any given time over the next 6 weeks off the north west coast and in the Gulf of Carpentaria. 
How many patrol boats in total will be required to maintain this number. 
Will this be sufficient to patrol adequately these areas during the prawning season and the period of greatest activity by Indonesian and Taiwanese fishermen. 
-The Australian Labor Party speakers in this debate have concentrated on only one or two aspects. They have either lived in the past by mentioning, without referring to the taxation arrangements, the inflation rates and so on at that time, what we may have done when we were in office at an earlier time, or they have quoted masses of figures that they believe prove beyond doubt, that what they did when they were in office is better than what we are now doing. I have several pages of figures that I could quote, but I am not going to do so. The way in which those figures are presented indicate that what we are doing is as good as or better than what the Labor Party has done. Many of the figures which have been quoted really do not take everything into account. For example, if we wanted to live in the past we could argue from our point of view about the effects that the levels of inflation caused by the actions of the previous Labor Government had on the basic security of all pensioners. I think that they have been more harmful to pensioners than to anybody else in the community. 
If one wants to argue on the basis of figures one could ask members of the Australian Labor Party whether they have taken into account in the figures they have produced the taxation that the Labor Government imposed on certain categories of pensions which were not previously subject to taxation, whether they have taken into account the effect of inflation on the real value of savings or other incomes that many pensioners have, which are now not worth what they were previously, and whether they have also taken into account the phasing out of the taxation concessions for certain categories of older people. If one likes to look at some of these figures in a little more depth I think one will see that a different answer might emerge. 
I prefer to live in the present rather than in the past and to talk about the situation now without confusing people with a great muddle of figures. I think it is fairly obvious why the Labor Party has argued on that basis. It is because what we are doing at the present time is identical with what the Labor Party would have done if it had been in office at this time; that is, we have passed on the full consumer price index adjustment for the June and December 1975 quarters and we are passing it on 6 months after the last pension increase was made. Anybody who wants to criticise the fact that that payment is coming in May of this year rather than April, as was the position last year, should blame die Labor Government because it put the increase date back a month to November. To anybody who wants to argue about the merits of using the average weekly earnings instead of the consumer price index as a basis I point out that the information I have is that the average weekly earnings in those 2 quarters rose at much the same rate as the CPI and that therefore the final result would be the same. One can always remind anyone who wants to argue about the merit of the use of the CPI that the Labor Party introduced that concept itself in the last Budget. 
There are other provisions in this legislation. I notice that, in line with inflation, one of them allows for a reasonable increase in income and property qualifications before a recipient is means tested out of a pension. I welcome the announcement in that respect. I move on to the reference that the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Newman)  made in his second reading speech to the income security review committee. I believe that it is a most important committee from a number of viewpoints. I understand that this committee will be reporting in the coming months. I hope that it will propose a number of improvements to the present arrangements. The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  referred to his hopes in this direction during his speech. I agree with him most decidedly on the important point of simplifying and reducing the number, types and varieties of means tests that we presently have for the different benefits and pensions. I particularly agree with his remarks about the introduction of what we proposed as a policy in the last election campaign; that is, the abolition of a separate assessment for assets in some of the means tests. To me the only accurate means test is that related solely to income. A person 's theoretical assets in a number of occupations and situations in this country bear no relationship to his ability to earn a minimum income. That is becoming the case more and more in my electorate at the present time. 
I believe that when these provisions were introduced they were probably relevant to the situation at that time in the sense that self employed people- farming people, people with assets- were above average perhaps in relation to the wealth of the community. But the provisions do not take into account the dramatic shift in wealth that has taken place in our society. Although that shift has been gradual over a period of years particularly in relation to certain sections of the self-employed and farming communities, it has been dramatic in the last 3 years in relation to the wage and salary sector of our community. That sector has improved its position dramatically at the expense of the self employed.sector. I am not here to argue whether that is right or wrong; I am here to argue that that puts out of date any means test arrangements and any criteria that were introduced basically many years ago, including those relating to assets. I believe also that that anomaly carries over into the assessment of unemployment benefits. I know I referred to this matter yesterday; there has been a certain amount of flack today in relation to what I said yesterday. I want to repeat what I said, namely, that the criteria for unemployment benefits does not take into account this new situation of many of the self employed people in rural areas not earning a minimum income or the matter of end of season work or even the matter of those people perhaps being relieved of their job. 
Yesterday I referred particularly to the fact that in my area many dairy farmers, and even more so share farmers, have not received even a minimum income this year and will be leaving their occupation. I referred to the fact that different criteria are being applied in different parts of the State of Victoria in relation to the eligibility of dairy farmers for unemployment benefits or their registration for employment. I know that those matters cover two different offices. Also there is the matter of the time lag between the application being made and the assessment. On Monday my office received a telephone call which concerned a dairy farmer who has to decide whether he is going to walk off his place, if he cannot sell it- he may not be able to do so at the present time- and try to register for employment. He was able to do that all right, but he was told that it would be 6 weeks before there would be any indication as to whether he would be eligible for a benefit. I do not think he has got 6 weeks in which to decide whether, in relation to the question of the historic income situation, it is worth while trying to hang on. 
I referred also to some other problems that I hoped would be looked at by the income security review committee or, if not that committee, the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle). 
I refer again to what the honourable member for Hotham said concerning emergency assistance. He made the most valid point that the average member of Parliament does have some sort of responsibility to provide contingency emergency assistance for people who find themselves in need late in the week or something like thatpeople in most unfortunate circumstances. I want to add another dimension to that point by referring to the situation of a pension or benefit cheque, whatever it may be, being posted to a person from the computer centre in Melbourne or wherever- in my case it is Wangaratta because that is base office- and that cheque has not arrived for a number of reasons. If the person concerned goes to the counter at the Social Security office he cannot get that cheque paid out over the counter. If he could get through to the senior management at that office I am sure the cheque would be paid out. I have every respect for the senior management. If people in that sort of situation come around to my office I ring the senior management and the matter is sorted out. But that should not be necessary. There should be flexibility in the system so that that sort of situation is covered. I hope that the income security review committee will propose some sort of net which will cover the varying complexities in the minimum benefit area. 
I want to mention two other points. One concerns pensions for the blind. I have not brought my notes with me, so I may be incorrect in certain aspects. I believe the blind were put in a most unfortunate situation by the previous Labor Government when it introduced taxation on the age pension. Previously a means-test free pension was paid to the blind of all ages- those assessed as being worthy of receiving or unfortunate enough to receive that pension. My understanding is that when Labor came into office it broke its election promise that it would not change anything in relation to the blind so that we have the new situation, I think, of there being no means test for blind people up to 65 years of age, there being a means test for blind people between 65 and 70 years of age, and there being no means test again for people older than 70 years. Those people in the age group from 65 years to 70 years probably need this form of assistance at least as much as any other age group. If I am wrong in what I have just stated to be the position, I stand corrected. However, I know that an anomaly does exist, even if I have got the age groupings wrong. 
The final point I want to make concerns the special benefit and the fact that it is not an appropriate benefit to be paid to a supporting father, a deserted father. I believe that some other assessment is necessary. I know that I am contradicting what I said earlier about simplifying means test arrangements, but I think this is a special case that requires an assessment different from that which applies in other areas. In fact, at the moment I am dealing with a combination problem in this regard. It concerns a dairy share farmer whose wife has deserted him. He has three or four school-age children but he is not eligible for any sort of special benefit or unemployment benefit. Unlike the ordinary supporting father who perhaps may be able to help the children get ready for school early in the morning, he is out milking the cows. All right, one can say that he should not be doing that. I hope he gets out of that situation because it is a hopeless one. That is the sort of hopeless combination situation, which includes the element of the supporting father situation which many men find themselves in at the present time. 
I want to comment once again on the importance of a humane approach being adopted at the counter of a Social Security office. I have always received most courteous service from people at all levels of the Department of Social Security and other government offices. I do not want to single out particularly the Department of Social Security but these Bills are concerned with that particular subject. However, I believe that there is a difference between the service I receive as a member of Parliament and that which the ordinary public receives. I do not think that is right. I believe that people must have explained to them why they are not eligible for something, and I believe it should be explained in a reasonable manner. To me there are two important points: One is that justice must be seen to be done as well as be done, and the second point is that the Public Service is there to serve the public. I make the suggestion once again that there is a need for counter staff in all government offices to wear name tags. I am not singling out the Department of Social Security here; I mean all government offices. I make that suggestion for 2 reasons: Firstly, it helps the public identify the person who gave them certain advice or who was rude to them. Secondly, I believe it would also help senior management in all government departments, including the Department of Social Security, to identify definitely who is the offender when a complaint is lodged and can do something about it. I am sure that branch office managers and senior officers in the Department generally would be just as anxious to correct that sort of attitude when it occurs at the counter as would the public and members of Parliament. I support the Bill and reject the amendment. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What action has he taken to expedite the construction of the high security animal quarantine station. 
Does he agree that unless the problems preventing construction at the Cocos Islands are quickly overcome an alternative site should be selected. 
If so, what is considered to be the most suitable alternative site. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Further to the answer to question No. 1355  (Hansard,  5 December 1974, page 4725), what changes have been made to the weighting of the Consumer Price Index since December 1968. 
What was the relative weighting of each of the components at that time, what was it in December 1973, and what is it now. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What action is he taking to prevent the importation of wine, which, by Australian standards, has been adulterated by the addition of sugar. 
Is it a fact that Australian wine, other than sparkling and flavoured wines, is not permitted to contain added sugar. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What are the arrangements for the dispensing of prescription drugs in each State, and are dispensing fees charged in respect of (a) outpatients at public hospitals, (b) hospital patients in public hospitals, (c) private patients in public and private hospitals and (d) hospital and private patients in small country hospitals. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What arrangements have been made with the States to prevent people obtaining their prescription medicines at outpatients departments of public hospitals where there is no $2.00 charge when they could have used a general practitioner in private practice and a retail chemist. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What provision is there under Medibank for prostheses and  orthoses  for (a) hospital or standard ward patients in public and private hospitals, (b) private patients m public and private hospitals, (c) outpatients, (d) surgery consultations and (e) repeats of orthoses or prostheses. 
Is there any variability in the provision of these items between the States or Territories. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the delay in finalising arrangements for the high security animal quarantine station at Cocos Islands now constitute an unacceptable situation, and will he authorise the construction of the Station on Christmas Island or some other site. 
If so, what progress has been made with the alternative site. 
If not, how much longer is he prepared to wait. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Further to the answer to my question No. 3069  (Hansard,  1 October 1975, page 1597) what action is being taken to enforce a health standard for the sale of imported wine in Australia similar to that which is required of Australian wine, that is, the prohibition of the addition of sugar to wine, other than sparkling and flavoured types. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Does he consider that there is any danger in the use of fluorocarbon or hydrocarbon aerosol propellants. 
If so, what action does he propose to take. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Further to question No. 2916 concerning poor television reception at the Canberra Hospital, is it a fact that a private quote of $20 per point was made in November 1971, well under half the figure of $ 1 8,500 obtained in 1 973. 
If the offer of $20 per point was discussed at a hospital board meeting at that time, why was it not accepted. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is it considered that the present range of NAL hearing aids caters satisfactorily for young children or should there be a smaller behind the ear model for this group. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What is the Government's attitude to the establishment of a community health centre on the eastern shore at Hobart. 
What differences will there be between any centres built by the Government and the plans of the previous Government. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Further to Question No. 22, why was not the lowest tender accepted for the provision of 6000 hearing aids for the National Acoustic Laboratory. 
Did the lowest tenderer have technical and service facilities in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
When will the inter-departmental committee report on the provision of hearing aids be made public. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a series of articles entitled  'The Merchants of Grain'  in the  'Guardian Weekly';  if so, is he concerned at the monopoly position of the big 6 international grain companies. 
Is it a fact that Continental Grain is the exclusive agent for selling Australian wheat in South America, where American wheat sometimes competes for the same market. 
In respect of what percentage of Australian wheat exports and in what countries are agents used rather than direct Wheat Board Sales. 
What is the usual agents commission. 
Is he concerned at a possible conflict of interest between the international interests of these companies and using them as agents for Australian wheat sales. 
Is he also concerned at the possible adverse effects the present charges in the United States against some of these companies for falsifying grain quality records will have on Australian sales if these companies are used as agents. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1) As approximately 60 per cent of Australians are nonsmokers, would a fair allocation of non-smoking seats in aeroplanes be 60 per cent and not 30 per cent as at present? 
What steps is he taking to increase the percentage of non-smoking seats in aeroplanes and other forms of public transport 
Has he discussed this matter with his colleague the Minister for Health? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What is the present student capacity in each of the training institutions in Australia for the training of (a) therapists, (b) health assistants and (c) aides. 
What increase in numbers in each of these categories and institutions was requested for 1976 and the succeeding years of the triennium. 
What new courses and institutions were planned, or applied for, for this period. 
What number of students will be allowed for 1976 and the succeeding years. 
What contact and co-ordination is there between the Department of Health and the Officials responsible for the financial allocation to the various colleges training therapists. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Why was only half the amount spent in 1973-74 as compared with 1972-73 on anti-smoking advertising as indicated in reply to question No. 1207  (Hansard,  18 February 1975,page415). 
Why was so little spent in either of these years on antismoking advertising on radio and television, particularly when it was only on these media that advertising was restricted and for which the then Government promised to provide compensatory anti-smoking advertising. 
When will the detailed information, promised in the answer to the first part of question No. 1207, be provided. 
What sum was spent in 1974-73 in each section of the media in (a) country and (b) metropolitan areas. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Further to Question No. 23 relating to the Fawnmac companies, what is the pro rata share of the 1975-76 net profits which the Government will have to pay the previous owners. 
Is the present manager the major shareholder in the previous ownership. 
What safeguards are there that the 1975-76 net profit will be a true reflection of the company's profitability, including the level and value of stock. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact his answer to Question No. 23, indicates that the final purchase price of the Fawnmac companies will be more than the various figures given by the previous Minister for Health, and in fact contradicts statements made to Parliament by that Minister. 
Is he concerned at the escalating purchase price of these companies and by the growing public disquiet over the contract of sale. 
Will he make public the contract details and the Australian Industry Development Corporation calculations upon which the sale was negotiated, as it now appears that the final figure will be 300 per cent above the open market price. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What progress has been made with improved registration and certification procedures for agricultural seeds to encourage greater private investment and importation in this industry, in respect of which a United States delegation visited Australia in 1 975. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What are the names, claimed membership, and office bearers of the various national organisations representing beef cattle producers in Australia. 
Are all of them national in the sense of membership from each of the major beef producing States. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
Has there been any request or application to the Department for the reintroduction of anti-dumping duties against imported fancy cheese. 
Were these duties summarily removed by the previous Government without any reference to the Industries Assistance Commission. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What contractual or other commercial arrangements are there between the Fawnmac group of companies and the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories. 
When did they commence, and what is the estimated percentage of annual gross income of the Fawnmac group resulting from these arrangements. 
Have any Commonwealth Serum Laboratories contracts with other companies been granted to Fawnmac since its purchase; if so, what are they. 
What guarantee is there that any arrangements between the two will be strictly commercial and not used as a device to transfer funds from the Commonwealth Serum 
Laboratories, which the Government underwrites, to Fawnmac, which is expected to make a profit. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon  (Question No.  ill) notice:  Mr Hodges  asked the Minister for Health, 
1 ) Where was it hoped to construct incinerators for quar-upon  notice:  antine purposes during 1975-76. (1) what was the percentage of medical practitioners 
Where will incinerators be constructed. under Medibank (a) engaged in total bulk billing, (b) engaged in partial bulk billing and (c) engaged in bulk 
What are the top priority airports and seaports still billing for pensioners in (i) each State, (ii) the Australian lacking incinerators. Capital Territory and (iii) the Northern Territory for the 
What progress has been made with a single- months of (A) November 1975, (B) December 1975 and department control arrangement for the finance, construe- (C) January 1976. non and maintenance of incinerators. (2) What were the national percentages. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Further to question No. 102, will the proposed Chinese Antiquities Exhibition be the same as that which was shown in the United States of America in 1 975. 
If not, why not, and will it be of a similar scale and quality. 
In which Australian cities will it be shown, and for what period will the exhibition be in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What was the approximate monthly usage of goats' milk under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme prior to the recent restriction, and what is the estimated or actual monthly usage now. 
What percentage of the total canned or powdered goats' milk consumption does this represent. 
Is there any requirement that only Australian goats' milk be used in National Health Service prescriptions. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What has he done to correct the situation at Canberra hospitals where outpatients subsequently admitted to the hospitals are not properly advised of their choice of standard or private wards and doctors. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that an obstetrical account cannot be sent to Medibank by a doctor until after the child is delivered, and with the delay in payments it could be 12 months after a particular service before the rebate is paid. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1) Is it a fact that Australia has dropped from the largest pre-war exporter of flour to only fourth or fifth; if so, why nas' this been allowed to happen. 
Has the flour milling industry requested assistance from the Government to help offset the subsidised exports of other countries and prevent the closure of more mills in country towns. 
What does the Government propose to do to help the industry and the employment it provides in country towns. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What plans does he have for the method of consultation and consideration of the updated Australian Industry Development Corporation report on the deciduous canning fruit industry. 
What time limits have been placed on these various stages of consideration. 
When will the Industry be informed of these arrangements. 
Is it considered that the Department's failure to provide the industry with such a program indicates a lack of urgency which is inappropriate in view of the state of the industry. 
Is this criticism supported by the time lag between the report date of 6 February 1976 and its presentation to the industry last week. 
-The Minister for Health will be aware of the concern of the medical research community that this Government will continue the low priority the Labor Government gave to medical research when it reduced the already modest allocation in the last Budget. 1 remind the Minister of the election policy statement of the Liberal and National Country Parties that we would provide a higher priority for medical research than Labor did. I ask the Minister to confirm our commitment to a level of medical research which will not only cover inflation but also allow a modest increase in real expenditure. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Further to the answer to question No. 2379  (Hansard,  21 May I97S, page 2641), what sum was allocated to each State for flood relief and reconstruction under the Commonwealth-State arrangement in 1974-7S, and in 1975-76 to date. 
Is any detailed investigation made by the Commonwealth before agreeing to finance flood restoration works to roads or levee banks in the States. 
How does the Commonwealth validate claims from the States under the natural disaster arrangements. 
Are sandbags required for levee bank strengthening paid for by the Commonwealth through its Natural Disaster Organisation or through the natural disaster arrangement 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Has he studied the New Zealand meat price stabilisation or price smoothing scheme. 
If so, can he say how the scheme is financed, how it is operating this year, and what types of meat are in the scheme. 
What is the minimum price, in Australian currency, for each type of meat in the scheme. 
Does he intend to recommend such a scheme for Australia; if not, why not. 
-The honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  in his comments made several general statements, with which I disagree, on support for agriculture. He criticised the form of support in this legislation, which is on what I call the productive unit basis, as not being as advantageous as what he called welfare assistance. As part of his comments he claimed, obviously in justification for that stand, that if a grower is larger he is therefore wealthier and that on a productive unit form of support he gets more because he produces more. He also said that the scheme has not solved the problem so far, therefore the form of assistance must be wrong. 
I should like to take issue with him on all of these points. First, we are seeing an adjustment process of tremendous magnitude taking place in the fruit industry in Australia. A far greater adjustment has taken place in agriculture generally in Australia than in any other industry. One can think of many others of a secondary and tertiary nature which have not adjusted in the way that these agricultural industries, in particular the fruit industry, have, because of union obstructionism, because employees cannot be sacked anyway, or because the industry is protected by very high tariff levels. Secondly, some form of income stability, as provided through this productive unit form of assistance is required during the adjustment process, otherwise the whole industry will collapse. As the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Drummond)  correctly pointed out, if during that adjustment process we provide more incentive to move people out of the industry, the level of assistance required with this type of stabilisation arrangement is not required so much in the future. 
If this form of assistance is not the most beneficial and somehow or other the claims of the Australian Labor Party that welfare assistance is better are true, could members of the Opposition suggest what they would do? In the time they were in office they did not introduce any successful welfare measure for agriculture, including a most important one, that is, the provision of unemployment benefits for self-employed people. That would be more in line with the Opposition's approach to assist country people, but in the time the Opposition was in office no such measure was introduced. To our discredit we also have not introduced any measure to overcome this most unjust provision in our social security legislation that self-employed people are automatically deprived by regulation of any form of assistance through the welfare system and, in particular, unemployment benefits. 
The honourable member for Fraser also made the inference that because this adjustment is going on and assistance is needed- one cannot make any form of comparison of the level of assistance in this industry with assistance from tariffs or in tertiary industry- somehow or other this industry is not efficient. The agricultural industries appear to be the only ones efficient enough to be able to export anything from Australia. We have no measure at all of efficiency of tertiary industry so I do not know what people can rely on when they talk about the agricultural industries not being efficient. They are the only ones that have been efficient enough to export. Because of factors beyond the control of the apple and pear industry- Britain joining the European Economic Community, our rapid inflation rate and a whole lot of other things- the industry is painfully having to adjust. It is certainly painful for those people in it. 
This legislation extends the apple and pear stabilisation scheme for one year, for the 1976 season. Honourable members on both sides of the House suggested in 1975 before the previous Parliament ended that this would be the best way in the short term to overcome the situation. I do not agree with everthing in the legislation, but I congratulate the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and the Government for the prompt action the Government is taking with a number of agricultural commodities. For example, loans have been made to fruit canneries. We have something in the pipeline on dairying. I only hope that it comes out of the pipeline fairly quickly. Some other decisions are needed urgently in addition to these. For example, the growers who supply fruit to canneries in most cases have received no advance on the fruit delivered several months ago. They must have money to live on, as must everybody else. I hope the Government is having discussions with the Reserve Bank on this subject at the present time. 
The honourable member for Forrest and the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  and others mentioned the need for a speedy reintroduction of the fruit growing reconstruction scheme, the tree-pull scheme, for one more year. There is no time to change the scheme too much because that in itself is a time wasting effort and time is urgent in the sense that management decisions on pruning, spraying and whether to stay in the industry or to get out of it are now facing the industry. Unless some announcement is made as soon as possible the maximum value of the announcement, when it is made, will have been lost because the best time for decision making will have gone. I accept that it may not be possible to abolish completely a means test with regard to the tree-pull scheme but I hope that the test is made as generous as possible and as flexible as possible so that Canberra is not breathing down the necks of the State reconstruction authorities all the time and so that the State reconstruction authorities cannot blame Canberra, in many cases unfairly, for their lack of administrative flexibility in the pursuance of the scheme. I think that if the announcement is made as soon as possible and both sides are flexible we can get on with the job. The message is well and truly with the industry at present that this is it, this is the dme for adjustment. 
Another thing that the Government should be looking at in relation to this industry is the sales tax on alcoholic drinks other than wine or cider. There is a 15 per cent sales tax on all alcoholic drinks with the exemptions for apple cider or apple alcohol which has no sales tax. Of course the wine industry has its own problem, although not a sales tax, with the taxation from stock revaluation. This sales tax means that if the pear industry wants to develop perry and Babycham to the extent that they have been developed in Europe it has an almost impossible job because not only does it have to introduce new products to the market but it has to overcome a 1 5 per cent cent sales tax as well. That is asking a lot of an industry, especially when we ask industries to diversify. I hope that the Goverment will include a measure to deal with this situation in its Budget. It would not cost any money anyway. 
My final point on the need for urgent decision making is in regard to unemployment benefits for self-employed people. I know this question is with the Government at present but in view of the very harsh restrictions now being placed on fruit growers, dairy farmers and other people in Victoria, which make it by definition impossible for an owner operator to obtain unemployment benefits even though he is generally available for work and has had virtually no income, because of the so-called continuing nature of his employment he is barred from receiving unemployment benefits. That is a harsher application of the provision than has been the case in the past. At a time when one would hope that there is some flexibility in the administration of this provision it is harsher than ever. I only hope that the Government will make a decision in the next day or two on bringing in a more accessible arrangement so that if the person passes the first work test of being genuinely available for work he may skip the secondary work test and then go on to the income test to decide whether, if no work is available, he is eligible for any form of benefit. 
To come back to this particular legislation, the industry in my area genuinely welcomes the one year extension. But in spite of a rapid reduction in the size of the industry, both for fresh apples and pears- apples exported have halved in the last 6 years, so one can see the scale of the reductionthe stability of the industry still depends on a reasonable level of exports. Unless there is some stability in the export section there is no stability in the industry as a whole. For example, out of a total availability of approximately 17 million boxes of apples, the domestic market for fresh apples will take only about  12 1/2  million boxes. That leaves a surplus. Perhaps one can make the same point about the abolition of the sales tax concession on fruit juice not assisting the industry. With pears, 1:4 million boxes out of a total production of 6 million boxes have to be exported. This is a reduction of almost 2 million boxes on those exported 6 years ago. As other speakers have made the point, the export prospects for fresh pears are brighter than for apples. 
I want to comment in particular on 2 points, namely, the export pear section and Granny Smith apples. The majority of fresh pears exported from Australia come from my electorate. The fresh pear exporters in the Murray electorate for 3 years of the 5 years of the stabilisation scheme did not receive any contribution from the fund; they paid into the fund. That is something that not too many people are aware of, and it is not mentioned by those who talk about Government hand-outs or subsidies. When one looks at the wheat stabilisation scheme one sees the tremendous subsidy the Australian consumer is getting from this stabilised product in relation to the value of the industry, etc. How much publicity is that given by Opposition speakers and by the Press? We only ever hear about these schemes when the Government contributes. I am told that for the S years the stabilisation scheme has been in operation less than $lm has gone out in actual payments for pears. 
There is a particular problem of Granny Smiths being exported to North America. It is not a new market. The Industries Assistance Commission has said that exports at risk should not be included in considering new markets, but I have here figures of exports of Granny Smiths to the North American market for a number of years. They have been exported to that area since 1962. I have the figures for the exports since 1969, which indicate that there has been a large amount of Granny Smith apples exported to that market each year. As a general rule about onehalf of those exports of Granny Smith apples to the North American market come from my electorate. 
I had hoped that the Government would amend the original proposal to include the Granny Smith apples exported to the North American market in the overall scheme, even if they were to be continued to be exported at the rate of 80c, which is the same rate as applies to pears; but that is not provided for in the legislation. One can only hope that they will be included later, as the honourable member for Forrest has mentioned, or that they will be included in the general flexible addition concession that the honourable members on this side of the House have gained; that is, the proposal concerning the 500 000 boxes that is to be worked out in conjunction with the State governments. Hopefully the exports of Granny Smith apples can be included in that category. I support the legislation and congratulate the Government for its prompt action. Before resuming my seat I remind the Government of just some of the points that I and other speakers have made concerning the inclusion of Granny Smith apple exports in this legislation, the tree-pull scheme and the payments from canneries and even the point concerning sales tax on pear alcohol. 

 Mr FRY (Fraser)-Mr  Deputy Speaker,  I claim to have been misrepresented by the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd). 
-The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  who just spoke, referred to the great achievement of the Labor Government in increasing the percentage of gross domestic product spent on social welfare. He also referred to what he believed was one thing that the Labor Government had done; it had not made Australia a soft society in spite of this increase in social welfare. I agree with him on this but I think it is interesting to see how it came about. Australia is now suffering from the greatest unemployment since the depression which was caused by the previous Labor Government. I am sure that hundreds of thousands of unemployed in this community would not consider that Labor had made a soft society for them. Also, if one looks at the increase in the percentage of GDP spent on social welfare one sees that a significant percentage of that increase was spent on unemployment benefits which was made necessary by the massive increase in unemployment through the maladministration of that Government. So one can agree with the honourable member but still look for the real cause of soft societies which spend a great percentage on unemployment benefits and on social welfare. 
I would like to pay a tribute in discussing this Bill to the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  who was the Minister for Social Services when the original legislation was introduced back in 1971. He introduced the hostels legislation as a 3-year crash program to put greater emphasis on the provision of hostel accommodation as distinct from the other forms of accommodation. To the credit of the previous Minister for Social Security in the Labor Government, the honourable member for Oxley, the previous Government amended the scheme as people on both sides of the House had suggested it should be amended to allow the transferability of bed entitlements from those who had qualified but did not want to take up hostel accommodation. Because of this the time scale had to be extended. The previous Government extended it for one year. This legislation takes away a time scale and requires only that when an organisation receives a grant to build it has to do something within 12 months after receiving that grant. To me, that is a reasonable requirement. 
In the second reading speech of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  he stated that the Labor Government, in finalising approvals under this Bill so that they would be accepted in principle before the closing date, accepted 300 applications which amounted at that time to a liability of $ 134m. The honourable member for Oxley in referring to this figure of $134m and what he thought a Labor government would have been able to achieve to satisfy this demand, then turned and criticised this Government for what he termed to be the open ended nature of this commitment that is inherent in this amending legislation. I think that if anybody should be criticised for making an open ended commitment it must be members of the previous Labor Government for automatically accepting everything that was proposed and saying in effect that the organisations would get their money but giving no promise of when that would happen. Of course the previous Government knew full well that unless the legislation was amended it would have been impossible to fulfil the commitments. I think the argument of the honourable member for Oxley is a little like trying to have his cake and eat it at the same time. As usual, he is suffering from indigestion in the process. 
There is a real problem in the provision of adequate finance to satisfy all the demands for aged persons accommodation in Australia. There are 3 types of aged persons homes: Single units for those able to care for themselves; the hostels, with which we are particularly concerned tonight; and nursing home beds. I believe that the Government has to establish priorities. As money in any Budget is limited according to the priorities of expenditure within the Budget in the aged persons housing program, I personally would favour a priority for the provision of hostels and for nursing home beds in the many areas of Australia where there is an acute shortage of nursing home beds. The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  was right in saying, as he did by interjection, that there is a shortage of nursing home beds in many parts of Australia. I can give honourable members the example of northern Victoria where there are virtually no nursing home beds north of the Bendigo Home and Hospital for the Aged. 
-That is right. That means people from my area have to go to Melbourne, which I think it is a most unfortunate social depredation for those people and for their families  and the communities that they leave behind. Therefore I think the provision of nursing home beds in those areas of need should be a top priority and the provision of hostels should be the next highest priority. Nursing home beds provide assistance for the more frail aged than is provided in aged persons hostels. I believe that in many cases the provision of aged persons accommodationthat is the single units for those able to look after themselves- has allowed the younger generation of the middle class safely to push to one side the responsibility for looking after or finding a home for their parents. I think that many of the people in these homes would be able to pay for what I would call retirement-type accommodation on a purely commercial basis. In many cases government expenditure has not achieved the same degree of welfare assistance that could be achieved by a closer look at people going into the homes and by the proper priority of capital expenditure in the first place. 
In criticising nursing homes the honourable member for Oxley made the point that many people who are in nursing homes perhaps need not be there because their medical conditions do not require them to be there. One would have to agree with that. But one should also point out that unless there are adequate nursing home beds we will have more and more people in acute hospital beds which cost up to twice as much a week to provide as nursing home beds. I think we have to have everything in perspective. Where people should be in acute hospital beds they should be provided. If a nursing home bed is required rather than an acute hospital bed, that should be provided. If a nursing home bed is not needed these people should be looked after in their own homes in their family environment with a greater provision of support services for them. 
That brings me to the next point I would like to make. I draw the attention of the Minister for Health to an aspect of his ministerial responsibilitythe domiciliary nursing care benefitthat is very important in this area. If we are to discourage people from going to nursing homes unless they really need to do so- if their families and outside support services can help them- we should be looking at increasing the domiciliary nursing care benefit in line with the rate of inflation, we should be providing as much help as possible for these people in the way of community services, such as district nursing services, and perhaps we should be extending the flexibility of the domiciliary nursing care scheme not only to allow for a change in the ratio of registered nurses to nursing aides but also in relation to the requirement of a medical assessment for the domiciliary nursing scheme as distinct from the medical assessment that is required for the aged at the present time. If we can do more in the community with respect to such people it is not only cheaper but also more socially desirable to do so. 
The honourable member for Oxley also talked about deficit financing in regard to nursing homes. He seemed to put some halo over this matter. I think that he attributed unfair motives to the many fine private nursing homes in our community.  His  attitude is wrong in the sense that I believe that, irrespective of whether a person is in a deficit financed home- that is, a charitable nursing home- or a private nursing home, our approach should be in response to the needs of the patient and our emphasis should be on the needs of the patient rather than the type of accommodation; that is, whether it is a private nursing home or a charitable nursing home. If we do not adopt that view we are being socially unjust because in our community there are not enough charitable nursing homes to cater for those who need nursing home accommodation and there never will be enough because larger amounts of government money are needed for the construction of more of that type of nursing home. No matter how beneficent a particular government is it just cannot do it. 
That is one of the hard lessons that the previous Government finally learned. It went through an ideological stage in which it felt that it could put all the private nursing homes out of business and just move the patients completely to the charitable ones. It found that it would cost a huge amount of money to do so, and that the cost of doing so was even beyond its wildest spending dreams. We have to redress the balance and come back to looking at the patient in the nursing home situation rather than just at the person who happens to own that particular type of accommodation. I support the legislation. I think it is a sensible extension of a series of what I would call bipartisan improvements that have been made to legislation that was introduced by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government in 1971 and whose provisions were continued sensibly by the previous Labor Government. This Bill is a logical extension. Hopefully the series of improvements will conclude in the not too distant future in the satisfaction of the applications that have been made under this legislation. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) What allocation has been made for the construction of incinerators at airports and seaports in 1 975-76. 
Where will incinerators be constructed. 
If no money has been allocated, where was it anticipated that incinerators would be built in 1975-76. 
Would it be more satisfactory for the Department of Health to assume control of the construction as well as the maintenance of incinerators at airports. 
asked the Minister representing the 
Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
Which apple, pear and other fruit juice processors received sums from the previous Government's allocation of approximately $5m by way of compensation for the abolition of the aerated waters/fruit juice sales tax exemption scheme. 
What amount was received in each case. 
Has any of this money been used for purposes other than that mentioned in pan ( 1 ); if so, for what purposes, what sum was involved, and to whom was it paid. 
What claims are still outstanding. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has a request been received from the Pharmacy Guild for the replacement of the Joint Committee on Pharamceutical Benefits Pricing Arrangements by a Chemists' Fees Tribunal for the determination of reasonable dispensing fees for pharmaceutical benefits items. 
If so, what consideration has been given to the request. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he explain the apparent contradiction between the answer to question No. 242 1  (Hansard  5 June 1 975, page 3538), and page 773 of  Hansard of  10 October 1975 of the Senate Estimates Committee D, where in the former it is stated that no officers of the Department of Housing and Construction are presently engaged in hospital design and construction studies, but in the latter it is stated that work is continuing as a joint activity of the Department of Health and the Department of Housing and Construction. 
What has been done to correct any anomaly or duplication in this situation. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
1 ) Was Australia represented at the International Wheat Council meeting held on 29 September 1975. 
If so, what proposals did Australia put before the Council for a cereal reserve system. 
What was Australia's attitude to the United States' proposal for a reserve of 30 million tons. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will the proposed Natural Disaster Insurance Scheme include grain and horticultural crop losses from either flood, hail, fire or drought. 
) What other forms of agriculture will be included in the scheme, and what other forms of natural disaster. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. He will be aware that the dairy industry will face a crisis situation after 1 July, when the present underwriting ends and the new production year begins, at least until the long term arrangements for the industry are developed after  Sir John  Crawford reports at the end of August. The Minister may have noticed also a statement that the Commonwealth Government is not prepared to continue the present underwriting beyond 1 July. Has the Minister or the Government ever indicated this? 
What did the Minister tell the States on this subject at the meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council on Friday? If the Commonwealth Government is prepared to continue the underwriting, will casein also be included? Finally, what arrangements were made at that meeting for production restraint for the coming season? 
I believe that the Government has no case to answer in relation to the Opposition's charge. The Opposition has proposed for discussion as a matter of public importance: 
The Government's failure to honour its election commitments on Medibank. 
The Government's commitments on Medibank- I will refer to them later- are quite clear. The Government has been quite sincere and consistent in the attitude which it has taken. This will be revealed on Thursday. The Opposition has shown itself to be too eager by far in listing this matter for debate today. Honourable members opposite were told quite clearly that a full statement would be made on Thursday. So anything they say today is pure conjecture and will only add to the confusion which the shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  suggested last night was the result of the statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Honourable members opposite themselves are deliberately adding to this confusion. 
One may ask what is the real reason for the Opposition's bringing on this debate today. After a week's recess honourable members opposite felt that they would be failing in their duty if they did not propose a matter of public importance by which to criticise the Government. A lot of rumours have been floating around Parliament House in the last day or two as to what the Opposition would actually produce today. It cannot use the subject of East Timor again because in the recent debate in this House initiated by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  the division between the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  on this important issue of East Timor was shown clearly. There is a split within the Australian Labor Party on that subject. It was also rumoured that the Opposition would move a censure motion in relation to the economy. Why did honourable members opposite not do that? I would say that they did not do it because any argument they put forward about the ills of the economy could be neatly and easily turned around and put back at their door for having caused the present ills in the economy. It was said that the Opposition would censure the Government on the Prime Minister's statement last night, on the whole statement, not just one section of it. Why did the Opposition not bring that up for debate today when it was there very clearly? 
If he said nothing, why did the Opposition pick out a part of it today for debate? Honourable members opposite, on their own words, are debating nothing. Therefore the point that the Government has no case to answer is substantiated. If honourable members opposite were to bring up the Prime Minister's statement today it could be turned around and used against them because obviously what he said last night is common sense for the future of Australia. The other matter which we are all waiting to hear about from the Opposition side is the overseas loans affair. Why did honourable members opposite not bring that matter up? The reason is obvious. It is because any further debate on the overseas loans affair would only produce further revelations of the misdeeds of the previous Government in this regard and further damaging publicity on its activities. 
The Opposition is endeavouring to use Medibank as an emotional issue. It is attempting to cloud the facts and to confuse the people of Australia. One does not only have to use today's debate to realise that fact. The Opposition introduced an earlier debate on this same subject on 19 February. The subject of the matter of public importance debated on that day was: 
Conflicting statements by Government spokesmen on the future of Medibank and their failure to specify how the scheme will continue to operate. 
Members of the Opposition are over-anxious. They will hear all this on Thursday. Instead of them waiting for that announcement we already have had 2 ill-timed debates on this proposal which is particularly important for all Australians. If members of the Opposition are sincere in wanting to debate Medibank why do they not wait until after Thursday when the facts will be known and they will have a basis for debate instead of busily throwing their conjectures around at the present time. 
I want to refer to the central point of this debate raised by the Opposition- its claim that the Government has failed to honour its election commitment. The Prime Minister had said: 
We will maintain Medibank, and ensure that the standard of health care does not decline. 
One should remember the second part of that statement, that the standard of health care will not decline, as well as the first part. As the Prime Minister said last night, it was in danger of declining for the most underpriveleged section of our community because of increasing competition for standard wards beds, the only hospital accommodation for such people. Other people should have a greater choice. In the program  This Day Tonight  on 28 November last year  Mr Fraser  said: 
Well keep Medibank but we didn't say it would be unchanged. We want to make quite sure that Medibank does not lower the health standards available to people in Australia and Tor the poorer people in particular, those who would have got priority in standard ward beds in public hospitals before, they now get no priority, they can't afford to go to private hospitals, they have to take their queue with everyone else for the standard ward beds in public hospitals. 
If one reads through all the statements made by the Prime Minister, both before the election last December and since, one cannot say that he has been anything else but remarkably consistent in the attitude he has taken- that Medibank will be retained but there will be changes. 
What are the basic features of Medibank? The first is that there is universal and automatic cover for those who desire it, particularly those who cannot afford any other choice. The second is that there is no means test for these people. It was obvious from the statement made last night that the basis and whole being of Medibank will continue unchanged. What is different? Let us read between the lines of what the Prime Minister said last night about what is to happen in regard to a revised Medibank and what would have happened under the original scheme of the Labor Government. Under both forms of Medibank the poorer sections of the community would be covered at no cost. I refer to the people whose incomes fall below the tax level. The next group of people would be partly subsidising Medibank and would be partly subsidised by it. There is to be no difference for that group. The basic difference is that the Labor Government aimed to kill the religious and private hospitals in this country and, under the rules of the Medibank game that it was playing, people would be forced from that form of hospital accommodation and would have to join the queue of people waiting for standard ward accommodation in this country. 
As I see the situation the only change being proposed is that people in Australia who want the freedom to choose religious or private hospital accommodation will be better able to achieve that wish. At the same time they will not put undue pressure on standard ward accommodation to the detriment of the poor. The Opposition says that the Government is introducing a dual system. It was the Opposition, the Labor Party, which introduced a dual system by which an elitist or very wealthy group had a disproportionate share of the health care resources of this country. If honourable members want examples of how this is happening they should consider the situation in the United Kingdom and New Zealand. The Government's proposal will maintain a healthy balance in providing health care in this country. 
Private or religious organisations own 20 per cent of all hospital beds in this country and if they are forced to close, and some are on the brink of being closed at present because of Medibank, there will be an enormous charge on the taxpayers of our society to replace those hospital beds. Those beds would not be replaced immediately; it would take years. We would lose the services of these people who had made health care their vocation. The Opposition could never guarantee that those hospital beds would have come into the standard ward system. The existence of these hospitals provides a freedom of choice. They illustrate cost effectiveness in health care and they should be preserved. 
Members of the Opposition talk about levies and total payment in our society. They should look at the capital cost as well as the running cost required to continue the present Medibank system on that basis. People who say that there is no need to change Medibank are not aware of the situation. They are not aware of problems associated with pathology, workers compensation, phantom patients claimed by some doctors and over-usage of outpatient departments. I could continue my remarks along those lines. If I have any criticism to offer about what the Government may be doing it is that it would appear that it is more concerned in arguing the financing of health care on an illness basis than expending money to provide good health in this country. I hope that when the decision on Medibank is made and announced there will be an opportunity to channel some of the funds that go into illness care to illness prevention in order that there will be a better cost effective basis. 
The Government has no case to answer. I believe that the Opposition has a lot of questions to answer. It is trying to confuse the issue for the people of Australia at the present time. Why does it not bring forward for discussion as matters of public importance such subjects as the situation in East Timor, the economy, the Prime Minister and the overseas loans affair? The answer is quite obvious. The Opposition is discredited and has no proposals for the future. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What action is being taken by his Department to encourage the provision of skim milk powder in foreign aid programs. 
What quantity of powder was given as food aid (a) in 1974-75 and (b) to 1 March in 1975-76. 
Was there any skim milk powder in the foreign aid cuts or deferments announced earlier in 1 976. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What amount of tinned or powdered goats' milk is being imported into Australia, and from what countries does it come. 
What percentage of the total goats' milk production or consumption do these imports represent. 
What percentage of the total consumption of canned or powdered goats' milk was absorbed by the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme. 
Have any requests been made for the protection of the Australian industry from these imports. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How much meat and meat products, hides, seeds, etc., which are considered to be potential carriers of disease, were confiscated from how many people, during 1974-75 . 
How many of these people have been fined or prosecuted. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What progress has been made with the introduction of a voluntary code on the advertising of alcoholic beverages, to correct the present undue emphasis on youth, sex and success in these advertisements. 
Can he say whether the United Kingdom code includes a section voluntarily excluding advertisements of spirits from television. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Will he initiate discussions with the Australian Dairy Cor- g (ration to consider the possibility of formally donating to Deomcratic Cambodia, as pan of our foreign aid program, the now unused milk reconstitution plant in that country, together with the technical assistance necessary to re-open the plant and the provision of the essential raw materials for its operation. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the previous Minister Tor Health appoint an Australian Audiology Investigation Committee and was  Dr Ronald  J. Balthazor of the Lincoln Institute appointed as its  Chairman. 
If so (a) is the committee continuing, ( b) what are its terms of reference and (c) who are the other members of the committee. 
If not, what standing does this committee have with the Minister or the Department of Health. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
How many saddles have been imported, and from which countries have they been imported, in each of the last 5 years and to 3 1 March 1 976. 
What was the preferential and general tariff on imported saddles in each of those years. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) How many people, and at what levels, were employed in the foreign aid section of the Department at the time when the Australian Development Assistance Agency was established. 
When was it established. 
How many people were employed, and at what levels, at the time when the Agency was absorbed into his Department. 
How many are employed now, and at what levels. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the salaries of the heads of the statutory marketing boards connected with primary industry, and what daily and travel allowances, and car entitlements do they receive. 
When were the salaries and allowances last adjusted, and what procedure is there for this adjustment. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is a search of 30 per cent of baggage of overseas visitors adequate to prevent the introduction of exotic diseases into Australia. 
Is there in fact a 30 per cent search; if not, what is the actual percentage. 
What checks are made by his Department to ensure that Customs officers do search an agreed percentage of baggage. 
Have 100 per cent checks been carried out at any points of entry to Australia in the last 12 months; if so, where, for what reason, and for what length of time. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notices: 
Are the producer and consumer adequately protected at the present time in the sale of cartons or orange juice and protein-enriched milk bread, in that there appears to be no minimum percentage of actual product required before it can be advertised and sold as such; if so, what are the safeguards; if not, what action will he take to provide the necessary protection. 
asked the Minster for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
1 ) Is there an Australian Trade Commissioner stationed in the Soviet Far East. 
If not, what is being done to overcome this serious deficiency. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the (a) tonnage and (b) value of the various dairy products New Zealand exported to Australia for the years 1971-72, 1972-73, 1973-74 and 1974-75, and for the six months ended 31 December 1975. 
Is Australia permitted to export canned deciduous fruit to that country or is there an understanding which virtually restricts sales of that product to a New Zealand monopoly. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What was the medical evidence which caused the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee several years ago to recommend that goats milk availability as a pharmaceutical benefit be extended for children from age 4 to age 6 years. 
What new medical evidence has now forced the committee to reduce so drastically the entitlement to 1 8 months. 
What research is presently being conducted into this matter, including the desirability of 3 month allergy tests. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Who decides the criteria for disadvantaged schools program grants? 
Have rural area schools generally been excluded in the past from obtaining any such grants? 
3 ) What is the present position? 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Is there an Australian Agricultural Attache in Tokyo or any other Japanese city; if not, why not; if so, what has been done to answer the allegations that our lack of an attache has cost us dearly with market intelligence about beef quotas. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the present statistical arrangements result in a time lag of several months between the importation of ball bearings and the publication of this information. 
Is it also a fact that the early availability of these statistics is of critical importance now that the Government has discontinued quotas on imported ball bearings. 
If the position is as stated, what is being done to improve the collection and publication of such statistics. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What sum has been spent or is committed to be spent, because of contracts, on the Labor Government's program of expansion of the National Acoustic Laboratory's capacity to produce hearing aids. 
What is the present annual production of Calaids, and what is the intended production after the expansion. 
Will the expansion program continue. 
If so, how will the aids be provided and fitted. 
If not, what will happen to the recently purchased equipment. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Is there confusion amongst fruitgrowers in respect of the re-introduction of a tree pull scheme, which has been compounded by the announcement of an alternative meanstest free proposal in the report of the Australian Industry Development Corporation. 
Is time running out both seasonally and financially for fruitgrowers if a tree pull scheme is to be of maximum value; if so, when will an announcement be made. 
asked  the  Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Further to Question No. 18 concerning the dispensing of drugs under Medibank in hospital outpatient departments, and the reply that the Commonwealth has no information on this subject, why does the Commonwealth not require the information when it has to pay SO per cent of the cost of the drugs and their dispensing. 
If the information is not available, how can the Medibank Review Committee do its work. 
If it is available from other sources, why was it not provided. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Who has been responsible for the medical clearance or certifying of foreign ships entering the port of Gladstone during March and April 1976. 
Who was responsible for his appointment. 
Was approval sought from or given by any Canberra based officials in respect of this appointment. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Is he able to say what interest rate is charged on Rural Credits Division advances and other advances by the Reserve Bank to primary industry marketing authorities. 
Is he also able to say what interest rate is charged by the equivalent New Zealand authority to the equivalent New Zealand industries. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Have any applications been received for by-law entry of tomatoes or tomato products now that the tomato season has ended. 
If so, from whom were they received, for what tonnage and from which countries. 
When making any decision on by-law entry will he take into account the fact that certain processors refused to accept all of the tomatoes that were offered to them by Australian growers. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Now that  Waltzing Matilda  is emerging as the most appropriate national tune or song, which version does he prefer, the generally accepted one or what is known as the Queensland version. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Further to the answer to my Question No. 8  (Hansard, 27  April 1976, page 1637), is it a fair test of public demand for non-smoking seats when regular airline users are aware that many economy class non-smoking seats are at the rear of the aircraft, and are not sufficient to provide a smoke free area and that the airline companies do not stop people from smoking in non-smoking seats, as evidenced by the example on TAA combined flight 450/422 from Canberra to Sydney on Wednesday, 21 April when two smokers in non-smoking seats were not even spoken to by the air hostesses. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
How many people are employed, and at what levels, in the scrutiny, payment and general administration of the entitlements of members of Parliament 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the present staff entitlement and level of salaried medical officers and specialists in each A.C.T. hospital and health centre. 
How many resignations have occurred in each of these salaried categories in each of these institutions during the periods (a) 1 July-31 December 1975 and (b) 1 January- 1 March 1976. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
What action is being taken by his Department to increase the overseas sales of skim milk powder, and other dairy products. 
My question is to the Minister for Primary Industry. The canning fruit industry has welcomed the Minister's announcement that the tree-pull scheme will be extended to the end of December and the means test eased so that the chronic over-supply situation caused by the rapidly disappearing United Kingdom market can be rectified. However, is the Minister aware that there is alarm over the contradiction between this announcement and the actions of reconstruction officials who are basing their proposals on the availability of using only the $lm remaining from the old scheme and adhering to the assessment criteria which are now either out of date or counter-productive? Will the Minister indicate whether more money will be made available if the $lm is used as that amount will not be sufficient to solve the problems - 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
How will the recurring costs of the Clyde Cameron College be financed. 
What tuition and other fees will students be charged who attend. 
What will be the length of the course. 
How many months of the year will it be operating. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
In connection with his advice to me of a recent survey by Qantas, the result of which will be an increase in the nonsmoking seats to about SO per cent of the total economy and 40 per cent in first class, will he inform me of the reaction of the domestic airlines to this Qantas decision. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
1 ) What was Australia's attitude to the counter proposals of the European Economic Community and the United States on international grain stabilisation proposals at the GATT cereals sub-group meeting on 28 January 1976. 
What proposals has Australia put to the meat, tropical products and dairy sub-groups which met in February 1976. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he explain the criteria to be used in the waiver of charges for pensioner patients admitted to Canberra hospitals under private practitioners as stated in part (4) of the answer to question No. 3071  (Hansard,  2 October 1975, page 1711). 
Has any alteration been made to this procedure since August 1975. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What is the estimated additional annual cost to Australia of the dual meat inspection system. 
Who actually pays this additional charge. 
What progress has been made with the elimination of the dual system. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
In view of the 500 per cent increase in imports in saddlery and other harness makers' goods of all materials in the last 5 years as indicated in his answer to my question No. 477  (Hansard,  19 May 1976, page 2251) has he received any requests for a reference to the Temporary Assistance Authority by the industry. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the television program  Bellbird  been considered a success. 
) If so, why is its programming being changed to a form that will reduce its popularity. 
Is half the cast being sacked. 
Is the real reason for the change the jealousy of the Sydney ABC management over the success of a Melbourne produced show. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
1 ) How much and what varieties of canned deciduous fruit have been sold to New Zealand in each of the last three financial years. 
Have any applications for import licences for the supply of Australian canned deciduous fruit to that country been refused in those years. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many fee for service and salaried medical practitioners are using the Kippax Health Centre, A.C.T. 
What staff is available to each of these persons or to the group generally. 
Who pays for these persons and what rental or other charges are paid by the doctors. 
When did the centre open and how many changes have there been to the fee for service and salaried staff since then. 
What after-hours service is provided by each group, and who provides it. 
What is the average number of consultations per day for each group for the first5 months of 1976. 
What other services are provided at the centre and how are they financed. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
Has the River Murray Commission indicated that water hyacinth is a potential threat to the Murray system. 
If so, what is the Commission doing by itself and in conjunction with the N.S.W. Irrigation Commission, and various scientific bodies, to control and eradicate the menace. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the present stage of development of proposals to correct the increasing salinity and general pollution problem of the Murray River. 
When is it anticipated that the Governments who are parties to the River Murray Commission will be required to reach agreement on the necessary financial and physical proposals to protect the river. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
1 ) When will work begin on de-snagging (a) the Murray River in certain areas between the Hume and Yarrawonga weirs and (b) the Barmah Choke below the Yarrawonga weir. 
Will the river be able to carry the summer flows post Dartmouth if this work is not carried out. 
When is it anticipated that Dartmouth water will become available, what will be the quantity and how will it be allocated. 
What measures are proposed to protect the Barmah forest from the post Dartmouth river level. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Was the dramatic increase in the price of chopper dairy cows and other second grade beef which immediately followed the Tongala slaughter, coincidental or does it indicate that meat companies have been making a fortune out of the misfortune of farmers. 
If it was not coincidence or due to some other reason, will he consider setting up an inquiry into the meat buying activities of the meat companies so that a genuine auction system is either revived or some other selling method is introduced which will guarantee price justice for the producer. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) How much grain was given to Bangladesh in each of the years 1974 and 1975 and what has been given, or has been requested to be given, during the period 1 January to 31 May 1976. 
What checks have been made to ensure that any grain so given was not allowed to rot because of a shortage of adequate storage. 
Have any requests been received for the provision of grain storage facilities. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
1 ) What progress has been made with the dung beetle program. 
How many beetles have been released and in what areas of Australia. 
What areas (a) are considered to now have an adequate beetle population and (b) lack a suitable variety. 
Are collections still being made in other countries for these deficient areas. 
How much has the project cost. 
When is it anticipated that the program will no longer require CSIRO support. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What are the (a) salaries, (b) daily allowances, (c) travel allowances and (d) travel rights, etc., for members of the various statutory marketing boards and corporations. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Further to the answer to question 504  (Hansard,  1 June 1976, page 2782) will he request the Reserve Bank to inquire of the Reserve Bank of New Zealand what interest rate is charged by that institution on advances to primary industry marketing authorities in that country and provide the information sought in that question. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Does Australia have anything equivalent to the National Seed Storage Laboratory of the United States of America. 
If so, where is it and what is the extent of the collection and the safety procedures for storage. 
If Australia has no such laboratory, why has one not yet been established. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to an assertion by  Mr J.  P. Dempster to the Western Australian Royal Commission of Inquiry into meat marketing that meat exporting companies had undercut each other on the Japanese market and cost Australian producers $lm; if so, is there any substance in the assertion. 
Has the selling or trading of United States meat entitlements prevented the maximisation of returns in other markets. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Will he explain the criteria to be used in the administration or implementation of the Agricultural Council decision of 14 May 1976 that market milk quotas will no longer be required to be filled during the off-season. 
Does this mean that for a prescribed period no milk will have to be delivered or will a percentage of the quota be required. 
If a percentage of the quota will be required, what is the recommended percentage. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the composition of the Pharmaceutical Ser-- vices Committees of Inquiry in each State. 
) Has this composition been changed or is it his intention to do so. 
If so, why is the change taking place, and who decided that it should. 
If a change is to occur, is one of the reasons to weaken the influence of the Pharmacy Guild. 
If so, is this sensible when the Guild's goodwill is essential for the future operation of the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What tonnage of (a) cheddar, (b) gouda or gouda type and (c) other fancy cheeses have been imported into Australia from (i) New Zealand and (ii) all other countries in the last 5 financial or calendar years and for the period 1 January to 30 April 1976. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
What is the (a) tariff percentage, (b) quota and (c) by-law arrangement for the import of (i) fresh, (ii) canned and (iii) dried (A) tomatoes, (B) mushrooms, (C) raspberries, (D) strawberried, (E) potatoes, (F) onions, (G) peas, (H) beans, (I) nuts (almond, walnut, cashew, pecan), (J) citrus juice, (K) pineapples, (L) deciduous fruit, (M) cherries and (N) prunes. 
In providing this information will he indicate any special arrangements that exist with New Zealand. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
As the Government has decided to proceed with the policy of banning any advertising of cigarettes or tobacco on radio or television, what action will be taken to ensure that the ABC does not breach this policy. (l)(b)-Quota 
Imports of these goods are not subject to quota. However, under the Customs (Prohibited Imports) Regulations, the importation of whole unprocessed potatoes is prohibited unless permission in writing is granted by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. 
1 ) (c)- By-law Arrangement 
Standing by-laws currently allow duty free admission of the following: mushrooms, dried or powdered, for use in a factory for the manufacture of dehydrated soups or packeted meals; peas and beans, dehydrated, for use in a factory in the production of dried foodstuffs; and kernels, cashew. 
Ad hoc by-law concessions may, from time to time, be granted on fruits or vegetables if, following consultation with the Department of Primary Industry and/or relevant industry bodies or following recommendations from the Industries Assistance Commission, this action is considered appropriate. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Wheat Board or the Department of Primary Industry ever considered the introduction of a scheme similar to the New Zealand Wheatgrowers' Compensation Scheme as a more effective form of disaster insurance. 
If so, why has not such a scheme been introduced here. 
If introduction of a similar scheme has not been considered, why is this so. 
It says little for the standard of debate by the Opposition that the closing  speaker  has to re-state the subject. Before I do so, I suggest that in any future debates on Medibank the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  get together beforehand and sort out the level of levy they want and how they would finance Medibank if they were in power. To re-state the subject, it is the Government's failure to maintain Medibank. What is Medibank? Medibank is universal health insurance. It provides 3 basic things. One is universal cover, the second is automatic cover, and the third is no means test at point of entry to the health care system. Medibank overcomes the previous problems that older schemes had of not being completely universal, of time lags for entitlements and so forth. All of the 3 principles have been retained under the revised Medibank scheme. It is universal. Everyone must belong, either to Medibank or to a private health insurance fund for hospital and medical benefits. That is checked out through the tax system. It is automatic. If a person does not belong to a private fund he is automatically covered or must be covered by Medibank through the tax system. Whether he pays a levy depends on his income level. Many people who belong to Medibank will not pay the levy. I refer to pensioners and people with taxable incomes, on a family basis, of up to $4,300. That is Medibank. All of us agree that those things should remain. 
We have maintained Medibank. Not only have we maintained it, we have maintained the Health Insurance Commission, its officers, its agent and its computer. Furthermore, all sides agree on the need for a levy. Even the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the real leader of the debate against the Government in this matter,  Mr Hawke,  agree that there should be a levy. One suspects that the rather hurried introduction of this matter of public importance today, which has fallen flatter than any pancake I could ever cook, was brought about by the need for the parliamentary Party to regain some of the ground which was lost because of what  Mr Hawke  was doing during the parliamentary recess. 
-He is the real leader, I think. The real debate on Medibank is actually on the degree or the percentage of the private and the public shares of the medical and hospital sector, the freedom of choice available to patients, the level of the levy, the cost containment procedures, the correction of anomalies evident in the original scheme and the updating of cost and other procedures due to the passage of time. Any other argument that the Opposition puts forward, other than these degrees of public and private and so forth, is an emotional rather than a factual argument and is hiding the basic situation that Medibank has been maintained. To indicate that this is not a biased or narrow view I want to quote from the summarised Press release of the Australian Hospitals Association, a body recognised by all sides as being independent. Its  chairman  is  Mr Royce  Kronborg, who is recognised by both sides as neutral in this matter. This is what the Association says: 
The Australian Hospitals Association applauds the Government's attempt to come to grips with the alarming rise in health costs by challenging the providers of health services to play the major role in this vital area. Failure to do so will inevitably result in diminution of the private sector component and increased government involvement. Such initiatives are long overdue and would have been necessary irrespective of the introduction of Medibank. 
The changes to Medibank will have the following effects: 
. Preserve the concept of universal health insurance. 
Attempt to distribute the costs of health care equitably between those unable to pay and those able to pay. 
By introducing a levy promote public awareness of health care costs. 
Introduce means to promote cost containment and the removal of the open ended financing arrangements. 
Share administrative responsibilities of running health insurance between the public and private sectors. 
Allow charges to privately insured patients for diagnostic services in hospitals. 
That is the independent affirmation of the point we make. It makes a farce of this debate initiated by the Opposition. Medibank in those 3 basic aspects has been maintained, and I believe we have improved it in several ways. I deal first with the public versus private share of health care. The previous Medibank, by its bias against the private sector, particularly religious and other charitable hospitals, sought to change the balance permanently. This was contrary to the will of the Australian people, 70 per cent of whom maintained private health insurance and showed their confidence in the private health funds. The previous Medibank increased pressure on public beds to the detriment of pensioners and low income earners. It would have required over a period a massive injection of scarce capital into the construction of additional public hospital beds when private hospitals, religious hospitals, were closing when they had beds available. 
The second improvement is in the freedom of choice. This is connected with the argument on public versus private share of the health care system. The revised Medibank of this Government provides people with a far more adequate freedom of choice than was previously so. There is Medibank itself, there is Medibank plus hospital cover, and there is complete private health insurance. This is a simple and adequate freedom of choice and is essential for the continuation of the private patient and doctor relationship which is desired by the vast majority of Australians. 
One of the worst features of Labor's version of Medibank was that it allowed open-ended cost escalation. The new version of Medibank, or Medibank Mark II, as the minister called it, will cost $800m less than the original would have cost this year. The actual cost in the Budget papers is $407m more than last year. So if the original Medibank had continued, the cost to the Australian taxpayer would have been frightening. One can criticise the present Medibank for a preoccupation, similar to that of the original Medibank, with trying to fit a health delivery system around a set of health insurance arrangements. What I believe we really should be doing is deciding what type of health care arrangements we really want and building the payment system around that. However, the new Medibank breaks new ground in that for the first time cost containment, competition and accountability are to become part of the system. Medibank Private will be in competition with private funds. Accreditation and peer review systems will operate. These were opposed rather than supported by the private health funds and the Australian Medical Association, but at least to its credit the AMA is now to go along with them. Hopefully health maintenance organisations will be introduced as experiments in alternative delivery systems. Surely Labor cannot oppose the cost containment and review systems which are now part of the new Medibank. It is important that all Australians, as taxpayers, health care consumers or health care providers, be made aware of the true cost of health care services either as contributors to a private health fund, as payers of a levy or payers in a disguised way- in the past it was disguised- through the ordinary tax system. Even with the 2.5 per cent levy there is still a large element of government subsidy involved. Where that subsidy is to provide cover for pensioners and low income earners to receive a complete range of services, there is no criticism. 
I return to the basic point of this debate. What is Medibank? Medibank is universal health insurance. Medibank remains. It is automatic; it is universal; it is free of a means test at the point of entry, so why the fuss by the Opposition? I suggest that if the Opposition wants to reassert itself over the leader of the ACTU as the genuine Opposition to this Government, it will have to do better in future. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the present situation concerning the establishment of an offshore quarantine station on Cocos or some other island. 
What arrangements have been made with the ruler of Cocos for the actual establishment of the facility. 
What stage has been reached in the planning for the type of animals to be imported and the implementation of a priority system. 
What are the proposed financial arrangements for the station and the animals which will be imported. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
How many (a) Federal Government Ministers and (b) shadow Ministers were interviewed on the ABC programs  AM, PM  and  This Day Tonight  in each of the periods (i) July-December 1974, (ii) January-June 1975, (iii) 1 July-1 1 November 1975 and (iv) January 1976 to date. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What progress has been made with the voluntary introduction of hospital accreditation procedures throughout Australia. 
) Are any of the States resisting the concept in favour of State bureaucratic structures. 
Has he publicly indicated his support for the concept; if not, will he do so. 
Is the present proposal for hospital accreditation a good example of the type of professional self regulation he is requiring with peer review procedures in the medical profession. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the financial membership of the ( a ) Australian Medical Association, (b) General Practitioners Society and (c) Doctors Reform Society. 
How were the Australian or Federal Presidents or chief spokesman of each of these bodies elected or appointed. 
How many persons attended or voted at the meetings at which these positions were filled. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the treatment of  Mr Toomer  indicate that it is the general policy of the Department not to tolerate any public comment or criticism of quarantine procedures or personnel by a quarantine official. 
If so, does this policy cover both permanent and temporary quarantine officials. 
If not, what is the Departmental policy on this matter. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What progress has been made with the acceptance of drug evaluation and registration for marketing procedures of other countries. 
) Which countries are involved. 
If accepted, will this reduce the present delay in Australia. 
Are there at present over 100 drugs waiting for marketing approval. 
5 ) What is being done to reduce this backlog. 
What is the estimated time before they will all be processed. 
My grievance is expressed on behalf of the great majority of pregnant women in Australia who do not receive paid maternity leave or its equivalent. More than 60 per cent of the married women in Australia are not in the work force and, therefore, are not entitled to any payment other than the $30 social security maternity payment which all pregnant women receive. One can query the term 'leave' for these people. Furthermore, of the 40 per cent of these women in the work force, the majority are in the private sector. According to the Parliamentary Research Service, as at June 1976 little or no provision existed for paid maternity leave for these people. However, it will probably be gradually extended to them because of the pacesetter role of the Commonwealth Public Service. 
The provision of maternity leave to Commonwealth public servants is covered by the Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Act 1973 which, for the financial year 1974-75, cost the Australian taxpayers $7m. This Act provides 12 weeks maternity leave on full pay and 52 weeks total absence for each confinement. Many of these women are second income earners in the family. State Public Service conditions vary. According to the Parliamentary Research Service, New South Wales provides 4 weeks paid leave; Victoria provides 3 months paid leave; and other States provide leave without pay. 
I should like to refer to the leave provision in other countries. In New Zealand, for example, there is 6 months leave without pay and in Britain there is 3 months paid leave and 3 months leave without pay. In Discussion Paper No. 3  Sexism in the Public Service  for the Royal Commission into Government Administration, it was stated that maternity leave provisions are generous by international standards. It was referring to the Commonwealth Public Service. One could equally add 'by Australian standards'. I am in favour of leave for pregnant women in the work force. I am in favour of no discrimination against pregnant women over employment or promotion. More particularly, I am in favour of maternity leave in some form for all pregnant women in Australia and still more in favour of a financial arrangement to cover all pregnant women, not just the fortunate minority in the Commonwealth Public Service. I recommend the provision of leave without pay for pregnant women in the work force. That can include a paternity leave provision and the provision of a social security payment for all pregnant women and fathers-to-be. This will provide social justice for all pregnant women in Australia. I am thinking of social justice for certain groups in particular. They are the women who can never join the salaried work force for a variety of reasons. The first is the self-employed group who work just as hard as, or a damn sight harder than, those in the salaried work force, such as the wives in small business, corner stores, wives of tradesmen, farmers, etc. The second group is those to whom employment will never be available. The third group consists of those who have a family responsibility. If one considers the provision of this leave, it actually discriminates against a pregnant woman with a number of children compared with one who has a small number of children because the first woman has less opportunity to get back into the work force. The final group is the unmarried mothers who can receive only the social security entitlement. 
I believe that on behalf of these women we should call a halt to the scandals that are developing in this practice. I refer to this morning's Melbourne  Age,  in which there is an article headed: 
Academics ride the learning boom in the new cloisters of paradise. 
A section of that article states: 
Take leave conditions, for example. 
The Prahran College of Advanced Education says in its college regulations that maternity leave is 'at least  24  weeks' on full pay. This is exactly double the Federal public service standard- which is itself way in advance of private-sector conditions. 
The cost of Prahran 's maternity leave to taxpayers would be equivalent to a grant of around $6,000 to the mother. The mother would normally be a second income-earner within the family. 
By contrast, if you are a destitute unmarried mother, the same Federal paymaster will award you a princely grant of $30 to cover birth expenses, and a pension of $4 1 a week for 1 8 weeks- grand total of $768. 
The Prahran regulations also suggest that the half-year's maternity leave generates a claim for 2 weeks' annual recreation leave and one month's study leave (which accrues at the rate of two months annually). 
Further on the article states: 
Prahran College also offers its proud fathers two weeks' paternity leave on full pay. Again, double the Federal public service provisions. And whereas the Federal regulations require the one week's leave to be taken within six weeks of the birth, Prahran lets daddy take it within 6 months of the birth. 
The research service also refers to the generous provisions in our tertiary institutions generally for paid maternity leave. I refer to an article in the Adelaide  Advertiser,  of 12 June which is headed: 
Maternity leave 'a year, mostly paid '. 
Four women employed by Telecom Australia in Adelaide have each been given 12 months maternity and other leave and for much of the time they are being paid. 
The article refers to 2 cases which I will quote: 
The clerk, who went on leave on May 18, received the statutory three months maternity leave on full pay, six months sick leave on full pay and two months recreation leave with full pay. 
The rest of the time was special leave without pay. 
An accounting machinist, who went on leave on April 19, received the full three months maternity leave pay plus three months sick leave on full pay and six months sick leave on half pay. 
The four letters were signed ' for Chief Manager '. 

 Senator Jessop, when referring to these points, stated in the Adelaide  Advertiser  of the same day that he knew of a woman public servant who received 14 months maternity leave on full pay. She had received about $9,900 for the time she was off work. I believe there should be a requirement in all these leave provisions for a return to work, within a reasonable period, by a person receiving the benefit if that person is to be eligible for full payment. I know that there will have to be safeguards for special groups such as the unmarried mothers and deserted wives, but some awards embody those provisions already. To do so would safeguard against the growing practice of school teachers who have no thought of returning to the work force, taking leave. This prevents their replacement in that school with another school teacher and generally upsets the school 's education program. 
I appeal to certain women's organisations and public service groups to look beyond their narrow borders and see the unfair discrimination against the vast majority of pregnant women in Australia before they push for any further maternity, paternity or parental leave conditions. I appeal to the Government to consider seriously the .replacement of paid maternity leave for the fortunate few in certain categories of employment with a benefit for all pregnant women. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the total cost of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme giving the separate cost of- 
drug purchase, 
chemists 'remuneration, 
departmental administration and policy personnel, 
outside panels and advisory bodies, 
data processing personnel salaries, 
data processing capital depreciation, 
maintenance and other charges and, 
notional or actual office and office furniture rental, etc, for the years (i) 1971-72 and (ii) 1974-75. 
What are the (a) estimated costs for the year 1975-76 and (b) actual expenditures during the first 6 months of the year 1 975-76 in respect of the same items. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What capital city and regional offices does the National Acoustics Laboratory maintain. 
What additional offices were planned for the Laboratory, and what expenditure had been incurred on them. 
What are the present and future plans for these offices. 
I seek leave to make a personal explanation to correct a quotation I used in the Grievance Debate on 26 August. 
-I belong to several primary producer organisations, which represent the most underpaid workers in this country. The ministerial statement on wages policy is a most important document. It is important because a realistic and successful wages policy is central to the reduction to an acceptable level of our inflation rate, and that in turn is a prerequisite to a worthwhile increase in consumption, expenditure, investment and employment. It is also important that all Australians know the Government's policy on wages and the perils to their future if this policy is not successful or cannot be implemented because of outside interference. 
It is also important for honourable members to know and to be able to debate this policy. I congratulate the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  for this welcome return to the use of Parliament for important policy statements and for allowing their immediate debate rather than allowing them to wither on the notice paper for months at a time. I also want to compliment the Minister on the tone of his statement. It was moderate in language and it is moderate in policy also. If one considers this policy, one sees it is a policy of moderation and gradualism. Compared with those imposed by other Western nations, some of which the Minister referred to in his speech, it is a very moderate wages policy. It can in no way be said that the policy is a union or wage earner bashing exercise. However, the legitimate question which can be asked is: Who are the unions really supporting if they do not support this policy? It is certainly not the unemployed of Australia and certainly not the average wage earner. 
In the United Kingdom to which the Minister referred there was an average increase for the 12 months of 4 1/2 per cent with a maximum of 4 per week. The inflation rate in the United Kingdom is still above ours, regrettable though that is for both countries. Even with the social wage allowances inherent within those upper limits that were imposed, which in itself is patchy in relation to the society in the United Kingdom, it will still mean a considerable reduction in actual real wages in the United Kingdom this year. The point I want to make is this: Who introduced that wages policy in the United Kingdom? It was not a Conservative Government, not  Mrs Thatcher,  but a Labour Government. It has been accepted by the Trade Union Congress which is the equivalent in the UK of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. So we have an interesting situation in the United Kingdom where something that will reduce the real living standards and wages of people more than is proposed in this document is put forward by a Labour Government and accepted by the trade union movement; yet we have these people here saying that this is a harsh policy, that it is union bashing. How absurd can it be after looking at that analogy? This policy provides an average of about 70 per cent of full indexation. This in itself is very moderate compared with the policy in the United Kingdom. The Minister has also pointed out that the social wage component in our policy of family allowances and with tax indexation the increase here is above that of the United Kingdom. 
I refer also to New Zealand. After a 7 per cent or $7 per week increase, whichever was the lesser in June of this year, there is now a total wage and price freeze for the next 12 months. Canada, which was not referred to, some months ago instituted a far more severe policy than will be the policy in Australia if this proposal is carried out. Many Australians believe that this moderate approach to wages policy as stated by the Minister will not reduce inflation quickly enough and that it should be more rapid if we are to regain international competitiveness, because our wage rate escalation and our inflation rate are still well above those of most of our international competitors. It is no use blaming this Government for that situation. It was brought about by the previous Labor Government which performed the remarkable miracle in 3 years of government of making Australia the highest cost country in the Western world. There are millions of Australians now suffering for this. 
I want to refer to the people who are suffering. They are the unemployed who will not regain jobs, as my friend the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  said, while this inflation rate continues. Their poverty will increase relative to those who are fortunate enough to be receiving any form of wage indexation, let alone full wage indexation, while that situation persists. One can link with them the pensioners of this country. In spite of the increase for pensioners following increases in the consumer price index, there are other factors arising from high inflation that reduce their actual standard of living. I want to refer particularly to the dramatic reduction of real wages and living standards for millions of Australians who cannot automatically pass on increased costs through some form of indexation, through wage increases or price increases because they are in the export industries or industries threatened by import competition. Their poverty relative to those fortunate enough to be receiving any form of indexation will increase and continue while this situation continues. It is not just a matter of a return to the share of profits versus wages, to which my friend the modest member refers from time to time most accurately; this particular group- that is those who are in export industries or in import replacement industries- have to get back to a fair return. They along with the pensioners and the unemployed, are suffering the most in our present situation. 
I want to give a few examples of this. The United States Department of Agriculture publication  Foreign Agriculture  recently published a food basket survey for the major capitals of the world. It does this survey quite regularly. This survey showed that Australia had a lower food basket survey than most other countries in the Western world which have lower inflation rates than ours. I want to make that point because it is certainly not the return to the producers that is causing the dramatically high cost of processing and moving export products such as food in this country because our figures are still lower than most of these other countries that have been mentioned. 
I want to refer first of all to wool. In May 1975 the Australian Wool Corporation revealed that taking wool from a Melbourne wool store to a ship's hold cost 7.22c a kilo. For the ship to take the wool to Europe and have it delivered to a mill door cost 8.49c a kilo. The poor apple grower gets approximately $2 a carton for all of his labour. The cost of a carton of apples becomes $4.50 by the time the apples are picked, packed and delivered alongside a ship. It then costs $1.17 a carton just to load the apples into the ship. It now costs about $24 to shift a tonne of bagged rice from the rail truck beside the ship in Sydney into the hold of the ship. By comparison the rice mill has to receive, store, transport, mill, quality control- in fact, do everything- for $23 a tonne compared with $24 a tonne to move the stuff from the rail truck into the ship. 
That is the sort of thing I have referred to in the dramatic reduction in real standards of living that is taking place for so many Australians while our inflation rate- caused by our excessive wage escalation- continues in this country. Our fruit cannery costs are now the highest in the world and we can no longer compete with Californians. 1 am told that the minimum slaughter charge for an animal is about $28. One sees thousands and thousands of animals being bought after perhaps 2 years of raising for $10 a head because of excessive costs. Our abattoir costs are the highest in the world. The standard of living of those people who cannot pass things on through some automatic process is being reduced all the time. 
I will accept that as a very good interjection. If this is allowed to continue the ultimate must be the loss of more jobs- jobs of unionists and wage earners- because these industries become less and less competitive whether they are export or import replacement. 
In the tourist industry we are told that in the recent school holidays on one day in Melbourne over 1000 people left for Fiji because the wages in our tourist industry are the highest in the world and it is far cheaper for people to go to Fiji than it is to go to Queensland. We have the double problem here of those people who are protected from the reality of the economic situation in Australia- those who are enjoying that sort of benefit- but at the same time are costing thousands of other Australians their jobs. This raises the question of who has the real interests of the wage earner at heart. Certainly it cannot be the Australian Labor Party or the trade union movement with their present policies because their policies must mean more unemployment, more inflation and a further lowering in the long term of the standards of living of people in Australia relative to other countries. One has only to look at the United Kingdom to see this taking place now due to the policies that have been pursued in that country. 
The policy enunciated today by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  offers to all Australians a smaller, temporary reduction in real wages for those fortunate enough to be on any form of indexation. It is the only hope of a reduction in inflation to acceptable levels in this country. It is the prerequisite for a growth in jobs, for consumption, for investment and so on. It also offers long term growth in real living standards in this country for all Australians not only relative to one another but also relative in our country to other countries. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
How many tonnes of skim milk powder have been given to Mozambique during 1 976 to date. 
How much skim milk powder has been provided as foreign aid during 1976-77 to date, and how much was provided during 1973-76. 
What quantities of (a) other dairy products and (b) horticultural products have been contributed during the same period. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the present waiting time for the importation of (a) cats, (b) dogs and (c) horses into Australia. 
) Is this delay being overcome or getting worse. 
What action has been taken, or is to be taken, to improve the situation. 
Does the quarantine charge for these animals cover the capital and running costs of these facilities; if not, why not 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What procedures are adopted to prevent illegally imported fish or their spawn from endangering our waterways or native fish. 
What procedures are followed when these fish cannot be destroyed because of court action. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What forms of peer review does he want the medical profession to introduce. 
What evidence is there that the medical profession will introduce these procedures. 
) Have other  forms  been introduced in the United States of America or other countries; if so, what are they and why are these not to be required in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Have any discussions taken place with representatives of the liquor industry, other than those representing breweries, to establish a voluntary advertising code for their products. 
Does the Government consider that there should be such a code. 
Do many people consider the advertising of beer is more moderate and responsible than for other types of alcohol, particularly spirits. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the initial Australian contribution of $8m, for concessional loans for agricultural purposes through the International Fund for Agricultural Development, constitute an adequate percentage of the initial world total of $750m. 
Is this $8m additional aid money or will the general aid grant or food aid grant be reduced by that amount. 
What opportunities will the fund provide for Australian agricultural experts or equipment. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Where the economic information originally submitted to an Industry Assistance Commission hearing is no longer relevant at the time of presentation of the draft report, is the Commissioner required to accept updated information. 
If so, and when a Commissioner refuses to allow this information to be presented, or to consider it in his report, what action can be taken. 
Has there been unhappiness with the Commission over recommendations it makes to the Government based on outdated cost, price and import or export data. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Because of the wide variation in the protein level of flour used for bread manufacture in various parts of Australia, what guarantee is there that the analytical specification used to determine the addition of protein in enriched milk bread referred to in answer to my question No. 1 16  (Hansard,  25 May 1976, page 2444) is in fact capable of so doing. 
What checks are made by the State authorities, or by the food basket survey to ensure that milk powder has been added. 
Have any prosecutions been made in relation to this matter. 
Why was the standard of 4 percent non-fat milk solids and 2.7 percent nitrogen set. 
5 ) Can he say what is the position in other countries. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon  notice: 
1 ) Further to his answer to my question No. 403  (Hansard,  1 June 1 976, page 2780) who is the present quarantine officer for the Port of Gladstone. 
Is his apointment permanent or temporary. 
If the appointment is permanent, were applications called or advertised for the position, and how many applications were received. 
If not, when will a permanent officer be appointed. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
1 ) What steps are being taken by his Department to assist Australian cheese manufacturers to obtain protection from the allegedly unfair imports from New Zealand and from other countries. 
What role does his Department, or he as Minister, have in any decision on cheese imports from New Zealand and other countries. 
Have the allegations of dumped New Zealand cheese and cheddar imports in excess of the quota agreed to with that country been taken up with the New Zealand Government or will they be in the forthcoming Ministerial talks. 
What are the procedures to resolve allegations of dumping or unfair competition from New Zealand dairy and horticultural imports. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is he satisfied that the present arrangements for the importation of dogs from rabies-infected countries, via the United Kingdom or other rabies-free countries are adequate to protect this country from the disease. 
What scientific evidence is there to support these procedures. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is the voluntary advertising code of the Australian Associated Brewers now in operation; if not, when will it commence. 
Who will police the code. 
Where does it differ from the United Kingdom code. . (4) Do all the State Health Ministers accept the code. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
As the Australian Government has drawn $309m under the compensatory financing facility of the International Monetary Fund to assist countries whose dependence on primary industry exports results in fluctuating balance of payment problems, will the Government in turn assist those primary producers upon which the Government based its successful application, by providing an equivalent amount of loans at a similar concessional interest rate. 
-I believe that the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  who just spoke in the debate would have been far wiser to have adopted the lower profile approach of the previous Opposition  speaker,  the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass).  Rather than criticise some of the aspects of this Government's alternative initiatives to the Social Welfare Commission, he should remember that, after all, it was the Labor Government that abolished the Commission. It abolished the Commission in an abrupt and petulant way and created considerable uncertainty for its members between the period of the first announcement of abolition in June 1 975 and November 1975 when the Parliament was dissolved. The honourable member referred to a quotation that is set out in the final report of the 
Commission to the effect that it was an idea before its time. This is how the Commission describes itself. However, I wonder whether it was an idea before its time or an experiment that will not be repeated because government does not like what it saw in operation as distinct from what it thought in theory. By ' government' I am referring to both sides of the House. I mean the bureaucracy, the Federal departments and the governing party or parties. 
The stated reasons for the abolition of the Commission differ between the Liberal and National Country Parties on the one hand and the Australian Labor Party on the other hand. It was stated by the Labor Government when the Commission was established that it was to be a bold step in policy formulation, evaluation and accountability of social welfare programs. It was established as a statutory body to give it the independence necessary for this role. But what happened? Firstly, I believe that there were problems of liaison with the Department of Social Security. The honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  referred to this problem when he was quoting from the report of the Coombs Royal Commission into Australian Government Administration. That report does not allocate blame in the sense of the failure of liaison but notes only that it was an important element in these bodies and that that element was missing. I want to quote another reason that was given by the Social Welfare Commission in its final report. The report states: 
In relation to the coordination and evaluation functions of the Commission, it was not kept informed of policy program initiatives with social welfare implications prior to government decisions; it was never given the power to enforce co-ordination nor was it given an automatic right of access to Cabinet submissions on policy proposals affecting social policy, thus placing the Commission's independent review role at serious risk. 
In other words, it was probably expecting too much of itself wanting to become too independent. Because of that- this is a second reason for abandonment- the Commission embarrassed the entrenched bureaucracy, it embarrassed the government that established it and which was paying for it and keeping it in existence. I believe that this was particularly the case in respect to the national compensation proposals- the grand scheme of national compensation so favoured by the then Prime Minister,  Mr E.  G. Whitlam. The Social Welfare Commission's criticisms of those grandiose proposals, to my way of thinking, brought about its abrupt and untimely end. 
The third reason for the abandonment of the Commission I believe rested with the fact that it became too abrasive and too intrusive. If one compares its activities with the activities of the Hospital and Health Services Commission, one can see the distinctions. The latter body adopted a lower profile. It established better relations with its Department- the Department of Health. It also adopted, and perhaps was able to do so, a less evaluative role and a more innovative role because it was given the financial resources through the Department of Health. This enabled these innovations which could bypass the slower movement of the Department of Health. Of course, in the various inquiries that took place the general recommendation was at the time that these 2 bodies should be amalgamated. This Government has continued the Labor Government decision for abolition. As I see the stated reasons for this advanced by the Government, they are as follows: Firstly, it reduces the expenditure of government; secondly, this Government see the role of departments and advice of senior officers in a slightly different light to what the Labor Party itself originally thought it would see them, although eventually it came to the same conclusion in respect to abolition; thirdly, although it is not stated I believe it is true- I include myself in this criticism as much as anybody else- we do not like any more than the Labor Party criticism of ourselves or of the departments responsible to us by a body which we finance. This Government, to its credit, has accepted the need for evaluation and criticism of social welfare programs. I compliment the Minister and the Government on the speed with which they have moved in this direction. The first step has been to establish a social welfare research unit at the University of New South Wales. An amount of $75,000 has been allocated for its establishment this year. I understand that there are the necessary guarantees for a useful life and role for this body. Secondly, the Government is to establish national consultative groups on social welfare so that people with special interest at the consumer level or in the private sector generally have an ability to get through to the Minister and senior officials their opinions, views and criticisms. This will be the case not only at the national level. Because of the operations in the different States there will be State groups also. This Government is also supporting financially 3 outside voluntary bodies. I mention ACRODThe Australian Council for the Rehabilitation of the Disabled, ACOSS-The Australian Council of Social Services and the Council for the Aging, all of which play an important role in policy formulation, evaluation and criticism of Government welfare programs. Fourthly, the Government will continue and hopefully upgrade some of the existing evaluation arrangements within the Department and research projects already commenced will continue. I say that hopefully this will be the case. However, I believe that the reason for the bipartisan attitude to the repeal of this Act is that we as bureaucrats and politicians cannot accept the body established and supported as a part of the Government bureaucracy for the purpose of independent and critical evaluation of government and bureaucratic programs. That saddens me. 
asked the Minister for Business and 
Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What steps are being taken by his Department to assist Australian Cheese manufacturers to obtain protection from allegedly unfair or dumped imports from New Zealand and other countries. 
What role does his Department, or he as Minister, have in any decision on cheese imports from New Zealand or other countries. 
What criteria does the Department use to determine whether to take anti-dumping action, or to refer a complaint to the Temporary Assistance Authority. 
If anti-dumping action is taken, does the matter have to be subsequently referred to the Temporary Assistance Authority or the Industries Assistance Commission. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
When will the request of the State Ministers at the Agricultural Council meeting for protection for Australian oilseed producers be implemented by an Industries Assistance Commission reference on the subject 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has he instigated studies into ways of alleviating the hardship suffered by certain pensioner, low-income and chronic illness groups who have to pay the $2 fee for pharmaceutical benefit items. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
What environmental impact statement was prepared for the Albury-Wodonga growth centre before the Labor Government proceeded with its development. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Is Australia a member of the Office of International Epizootics. 
If so, (a) how long has it been a member; (b) what is the annual membership fee and; (c) who is the Australian representative. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Transport been drawn to newspaper reports that the Victorian Minister for Transport,  Mr Rafferty,  has agreed to his request that the additional $7.5m made available by the Commonwealth for roads in Victoria be spent on improving country roads and relieving local unemployment? Is the report correct? If so, has the Minister received confirmation from  Mr Rafferty  that he has agreed to the Minister's request? Furthermore, what is the position in the other States? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What action does the Minister propose to take to increase the number of dental graduates in Australia, particularly in Victoria. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. The Minister will be aware of the threatened termination of employment of Aboriginal teacher aides in schools in northern Victoria. He will also be aware of the general support in my electorate for the teacher aides program. Will the additional finance of $2 5m which he announced yesterday guarantee employment for these teacher aides at least until the end of the financial year? Will the Minister also discuss with the Victorian Education Department the question of making appropriate employment arrangements to provide career opportunities for these people at the completion of their training period? 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
Will he provide the following information for every Industry Assistance Commission reference made since the establishment of the Commission: (a) the date of reference, (b) the date of the first hearing, (c) the date of the Commission's report to the Government, (d) the date of Government action on the report, (e) the number of Commissioners on the particular hearing, (f) the estimated cost of the hearing to the Government, and (g) the private groups at the hearing (where known). 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the generous farmer drought aid schemes now in operation or proposed in several European countries. 
If so, is the Commonwealth Government considering an interest subsidy scheme similar to that of West Germany where the Federal Government will provide an interest rate subsidy grant to all farmers whose income has been reduced by 30 per cent or more because of the drought; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Government include slaughter compensation to sheep producers as well as local government in its drought arrangements with the States on a pro-rata basis with the States. 
Would $1.50 per head be the appropriate sum. 
-My grievance today is on behalf of the cheese industry of Australia, particularly the processed cheese sector, which alleges that cheese is being dumped in this country from New Zealand and has been dumped for up to 2 years. There are 3 related matters concerning the importation of cheese from New Zealand. The first matter is dumping; the second relates to the definition of 'cheddar' under the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement; and the third relates to another aspect of the agreement, that is, the informal cooperation required between the New Zealand Dairy Board and the Australian Dairy Board on all dairy industry matters. I believe, from what I have seen, that on all 3 issues the New Zealanders are guilty. New Zealand imports into Australia are under quota for cheddar, which is 1220 tonnes per annum, but for the fancy varieties there are no tariffs and no restrictions at all. In the past 5 years imports of cheese from New Zealand have increased rapidly. I agree with those people who say that in some varieties the quality of New Zealand cheese is more consistent than the Australian cheese. 
At the present time the dairy industry in Australia is suffering from probably the greatest crisis in its history. In my own area there is a combination of problems. Returns are disastrously low, having dropped from up to 75 cents per lb of butter fat in milk 2 years ago to 50 cents now, although with the latest very generous Government assistance that return will rise to 55 cents. As well, production is down by 30 per cent or 40 per cent because of the worst drought for many years. Those points relating to the problems of the industry, although pertinent, are not the actual points at issue with New Zealand. Australia has an objective import protection system through the dumping provisions, the Temporary Assistance Authority or the Industries Assistance Commission. I believe that it is the least politicised import protection system in the world. If one looks at the European Economic Community and the way its governments make import decisions without going through these objective procedures, one can see the point I am making. 
Objective procedures are available for protection against the dumping of any product, whether it is cheese or cars or anything else. I understand that at the present time there is an application before the Customs section of the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs relating to the alleged dumping in this country of easy cheese. I have here an advertisement which appeared in the Melbourne  Herald  on 7 September 1976 which quotes the price of 8 ounces net of New Zealand easy cheese as 25 cents. According to the definition, dumping occurs when a product is sold in another country for less than the normal sale price in the country of origin. The normal sale price of easy cheese in New Zealand is 46 cents. If one allows for a 25 per cent currency differential, the price in Australiaand I know that this is a rough estimate and does not allow for freight, which would add to the cost- would be approximately 34 cents to 35 cents, but it is being advertised for 25 cents. To my mind, that is a prima facie case of dumping, and if the Customs section considers that a case exists then under the NAFTA agreement there is a 60 day negotiation period to try to resolve the problem. If the problem is not resolved at the end of 60 days anti-dumping duties are applied if they are found to be necessary. 
The point I want to make is that this is not a request for protection against lower cost imports because the other country has a lower cost wage structure than Australia. The fact that we have the highest wage costs in the world is a tremendous problem for all primary industry in Australia. The costs of cannery operators in the fruit canning industry are the highest in the world, if one considers wage levels generally. But that is not the point. Here is a straight out case of dumping, of a product being sold in a second country at less than the normal sale price. 
The second related issue is whether easy cheese is cheddar. If it is cheddar it should be included in the quota of 1220 tonnes. It is very difficult to ascertain the figures because, under different categories, processed cheese can come from New Zealand either as cheddar, processed cheddar or other processed cheese, and there is no reference on the label to this being a cheddar cheese. If all the cheese- that is the easy cheese, cheddar and processed cheddar- is added together for the 1975-76 year, it amounts to 1600 to 1700 tonnes, to my knowledge, which is about 500 tonnes more than the quota. If one looks at the health regulations in the various States of Australia one finds that the definition of processed cheese, that is, a cheese which has been emulsified and pasteurised and had certain other things done to it, includes cheddar cheese. I think anybody who eats New Zealand cheese and also one of the three brands of Australian processed cheddar cheese will agree that they are the same type of cheese, although some people say that the Australian cheese is better. So if this is a cheddar cheese, and I believe that the weight of evidence is that it is a cheddar under the Pure Foods Act or the health regulations of the States, it should be included in the quota. If it is included in the quota, I believe that New Zealand is clearly in breach of the quota arrangements between the 2 countries. 
That brings me to my third point. It is important for the dairy industries and the dairy boards of both countries to co-operate because we are the two largest exporters in the world of dairy products. It is to our mutual advantage to ensure that these products are not sold in third countries at unnecessarily low prices because that reduces the return to producers and the foreign exchange in both countries. There is also the informal requirement under NAFTA that the two dairy boards co-operate on the export of dairy products from one country to the other. I understand that the New Zealand Dairy Board has been made aware over the last 2 years of the dumping of easy cheese in Australia- alleged dumping, if you like- and has not responded. If a prima facie case of dumping is made out there is a requirement under NAFTA to look at the situation. The requirement for co-operation between the dairy industries and dairy boards of both countries is such that I and a number of others from the industry requested the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Anthony)  to raise this question at the recent annual ministerial NAFTA meeting. In reply to a question I put to the Minister on this subject, he said that he was aware of the general complaints of the dairy industry in Australia and of the problem of quotas. He stated in the answer that he would bring this matter to the attention of the New Zealand Minister at the forthcoming ministerial talks. My understanding is that that general subject was raised at those talks. 
Sometimes people say: Why should we not get something as cheap as possible from another country? If that were done, everybody in this country would be out of a job. The most overpriced product in this country is labour. The people who sell their service of labour have the greatest protection from any import competition that is possible. I believe that this is completely onesided and unfair. On the one hand, they have this level of protection but on the other hand they then want to have the best of both worlds and to have a product as cheaply as possible. The Australian people should have a good range of dairy products, including cheese. I am not in favour of banning imports of cheese. I believe that the arrangements we have in Australia provide a far greater access for the Australian consumer to varieties of cheese from all around the world than exists in most other countries. But it is completely unfair if dumping is taking place and if quotas are being breached. I believe that in both cases I have raised, a substantial case exists to show that a verdict of guilty must be brought down against New Zealand on these issues. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) In the Federal-State understanding on natural disaster assistance, is there automatic inclusion of the various forms of aid after a flood, fire, drought, etc., if they are part of an approved list. 
If so, what items are on the list. 
If not, does approval have to be given by the Commonwealth Government each year for every form of accepted aid; if so, what is the procedure for approval. 
Does the State Government usually make the request to the Commonwealth Government. 
When was the closing date for requests for specific forms of assistance for 1975-76, and when will it be for 1976-77. 
Is the base amount a State must spend before being eligible for Commonwealth assistance allowed to be the total for assistance for different forms of natural disasters or must each type exceed a base figure. 
Did the Victorian Government request the inclusion of drought aid in 1975-76; if so, when was the request made. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) When will the Quarantine Regulations be invoked for certain types of cheese from countries where foot and mouth disease is prevalent. 
Is it now over a year since the Department was first alerted to this disease risk to our livestock industries; if so, why has there been this inordinate delay. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the offshore animal quarantine station to be established on Cocos Island. 
If so, why has there not been discussion with the ruler of Cocos on the provision of the station, as indicated in the answer to question No. 749. 
Does this indicate that the station will be established without his approval. 
What is preventing action by the Government on this important project. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. The announcement by the Minister last week of the increased underwriting support by the Commonwealth Government for butter and cheese for the 6 months to 31 December has been warmly received by the dairy industry. Was the continuation and level of the underwriting discussed at the Australian Agricultural Council meeting held in Sydney last Friday? If so, was it decided to continue both the Federal/State skim milk powder and casein support measures and the federal only butter and cheese underwriting to the end of June 1977, and at what level? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Can he say whether persecution of Jehovah's Witnesses is once again taking place in Malawi and Benin. 
If so, what protests have been made in relation to this persecution. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice; 
1 ) What is the annual production of pear wine and other forms of pear alcohol. 
What estimated cost to revenue was used when it was decided that the removal of the discriminatory sales tax imposed on pear alcohols could not be included in the 1976-77 Budget. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, on notice: 
When he considers the request of the South Australian Government to convert to a grant the Commonwealth portion of the early 1976 loan to the Riverland Cannery, will he ensure that any decision is equitable to all canned fruit growers in Australia, and does not favour certain canneries or orchardists supplying those canneries, i.e. it is on a per tonne rate of fruit deliveries, irrespective of the loan to the cannery. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the liquid asset means test for the special benefit be replaced by a simple income test after 1 November 1976. 
Will all tested pensions and benefits administered by the Department of Social Security be subject only to the simple income test after that date. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Have any studies been undertaken on the possible replacement of the present maternity leave provisions for female employees in the Commonwealth Public Service and several associated groups with a realistic maternity benefit available to all pregnant women. 
If so, what are the estimated costs at the various levels of benefit. 
What is the estimated cost of maternity leave in (a) the Commonwealth Public Service, (b) universities and (c) colleges of advanced education for 1976-77. 
How many women are employed in each of the groups referred to in pan ( 3 ). 
-The subject under discussion is the failure of the Government to provide adequate care for the aged. This is a rather curious subject for the Opposition to bring up because the provision of care for the aged is just not an overnight proposition. There are time lags and questions of planning, programming, implementation and so on. The present Government has been in office for less than 12 months. Therefore any criticism of the Government in respect of failure to care for the aged would be better directed at the Labor Government itself. When we look at the wording of the matter proposed for discussion we see that that is the only description that can be given to it. How many of the programs for the aged in our community were new ones instituted by the Labor Government and how many were really instituted or implemented by the previous LiberalCountry Party Government? The answer must be that the great period of implementation of initiatives for the care of the aged came with the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. I believe that when the various planning reports and so on are received by the present Government we will see a resurgence of initiative and effective programming in this area. For the first time we have a government that is really reviewing what is available and is planning for the future. 
The honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  mentioned 2 committees. He referred to the Bailey Committee, which is a health and welfare task force and about which there are a certain number of rumours. He also referred to the Holmes Committee on aged accommodation. If one looks at the timetable for these committees it must be acknowledged that the Government is pressing ahead with its planning and review of these new programs in order to reduce what must in many cases be overlap and gaps. For example, the Holmes committee was instituted only in June and is committed to all programs of care for the aged. There are 2 discussion papers ready for the Minister's concerned, namely the Minister for Health and the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle).  The first paper is on the aged in the community in institutions- nursing homes and so on. The second paper is on the construction of self-contained units and the capital costs of nursing homes. After these discussion papers have been presented to the Ministers, they will be reviewed and discussed with the 
States and with some voluntary organisations involved in this area, including the Australian Council of Social Services and the Council on the Aging. So much for the honourable member for Maribyrnong and his criticism that these organisations will not have any input to the Government's programming and planning. The recommendations and options will come back to the 2 Ministers and will be presented finally to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The Bailey task force will also report to the Government. These reports are all listed for about the end of this month. Therefore nobody can say that this Government is wasting time or procrastinating in this important area of the most adequate and efficient forms of care for the aged. 
If one looks at some of the present situations, which in a way were exacerbated by the Labor Government, one has to admit that there is room for further programming and planning. The honourable member for Maribyrnong mentioned that the present Government halved the building subsidy from $4 to $ 1 to $2 to $ 1 under the aged and disabled persons homes legislation. But what he did not mention was that the effective level of subsidy under the Labor dropped to below 60 per cent. The subsidy was $4 to $1 in theory only, because of the re-ceilings on the maximum subsidy limit and the upper cost limit. The maximum subsidy limit was not increased after December 1974. We all know what happened to building costs as a result of Labor imposed inflation. The effective level of subsidy to anybody building an aged or disabled person's home dropped to below 60 per cent by the time Labor lost office. What has this Government done? It has introduced a genuine $2 for $ I subsidy on a genuine basis by indexing building costs on a quarterly basis with variations to allow for the inflation rate. This is something that the Labor Government never did. This will guarantee a level of subsidy to these organisations of approximately 66 per cent. The subsidy will retain approximately its $2 for $ 1 value. 
Let us look at the reality of the situation. For all its talk the Labor Government's contribution fell to below 60 per cent. This Government will guarantee 66 per cent. So much for the rot talked by members of the Opposition. Let us look at the Labor Government's building program. We have heard a great deal of noise from members of the Opposition about this. During the 3 financial years the Labor Party was in office- that is the financial years 1973-74, 1974-75 and 1975-76- $135m was spent on aged and disabled persons homes and hostels. This Government has promised to spend $225m over the next 3 years. This is a significant increase. It is no use saying that this is just a promise in the sense that the promise may not be honoured. When announcing the 3-year program the Minister for Social Security said that those organisations which had been announced as being included in this program could proceed with certain construction. Arrangements have been made which tie the Government to providing assistance in this area. Therefore this is a real program and not just pie in the sky. We have an amount of $225m as against $135m. So much for Labor and its talk about building arrangements. The Government is also guaranteeing that any transferrable rights for hostels will be honoured. Such a scheme was introduced on a limited basis by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  in 1972. 1 support what Labor did in extending that transferability when it was in office. 
The honourable member for Maribyrnong also mentioned the great crime of this Government in deferring the half-yearly increase in pension payments from October to November and then for the following 6 months through to May. But who made the first deferment? Thus Government did not make that deferment. The first deferment from October to November was introduced in the Hayden Budget last year. The people of Australia and the pensioners of Australia want to wake up to this. This Government did not begin the deferment from October to November; the previous Labor Government did. The present Government did not introduce the proposition that pensions be tied to 25 per cent of the consumer price index. The Hayden Budget introduced this. So much for the Labor Party's concern because that Party when in government introduced these things. For the first time the pensioners of Australia are guaranteed automatic 6-monthly adjustments, something that the previous Labor Government did not do. We have honoured the promise of 6-monthly automatic adjustments. The legislation has gone through. 
In addition we have introduced one of the greatest pension reforms. I refer to the provision of an income test only on pensions. This has replaced I believe the most unjust form of property as well as income test for age and invalid pensions. This dicussion shows the topsy-turvy situation we have in this Parliament. I think 12 months or 18 months ago we brought up for discussion a matter of public importance which to a large extent was on the same subject as the one put forward by the Labor Party today. The reality is that in an inflationary situation aged people are one of the groups that are most hurt or affected. We made the point when we brought up the matter of public importance that Labor was not acknowledging the basic cause of the problems for so many of the aged in our society, and that is the rampant inflation that we have in this country which was introduced or let get out of hand- whatever you like- by the Labor Government The inflation rate was 4.6 per cent when we lost office; it was 16 per cent or 17 per cent when Labor lost office. The aged in our society are the people most affected by inflation. 
I refer now to nursing homes. I remember the earlier days of the Labor Government known as the ideological period. It wanted to do away with private nursing homes altogether. The Labor Party applied certain restrictions to private nursing homes. More than 50 per cent of the nursing home beds in Australia are private; they are not government or deficit financed. Because of Labor policy the number of nursing home beds in the private sector dropped by almost 2000 in 3 years of Labor Government. How absurd it is for anyone on the Labor side to talk of the problems of the aged infirm getting into nursing home accommodation when 2000 of those beds were lost because of Labor policy. I believe the private sector is the most efficient section in the nursing home area. 
The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  stated in answer to a question less than 2 weeks ago that when the Holmes Committee reports to him and through him to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and Cabinet the nursing home benefits will be reviewed and he will consider a retrospective increase in this area which we know is of concern to many of the aged in this community. Let me remind honourable members that this is not the first time that the aged in nursing homes in this country have suffered a gap situation. The gap commenced under Labor and grew to its present proportions. When we were in office certain schemes were introduced. There was to be $6 left to a pensioner after payment of his nursing home fees. That amount was reduced initially by Labor to $4 a week and then the homes were run at a deficit of $20, $30 and $40 a week depending on the State in which the nursing home was situated. I acknowledge that that situation still exists and is still of great concern to all members of Parliament. 
I do not believe it is worse, but I acknowledge that it still exists. The point I wish to make is that Labor supporters should not suddenly say that this is a new problem that has been caused by this Government, because the problem was there equally when they were in power. I believe they were less successful in this area in the 3 years they were in office than we have been. I believe the situation will improve with the release of the Holmes report. 
The general need for planning in care for the aged is long overdue. This Government is at least starting to do something about real planning on the divisions between acute hospital bed care, nursing home bed care, various forms of aged persons accommodation and, as important as all of them, domiciliary care arrangements. There is a great division between the present arrangements in the States on nursing homes. I believe it is quite correct for members of the Bailey task force to talk to the States about the differentials in nursing home payments because the States, through their own requirements, have caused these differentials. It is no good members of the Labor Party saying that is wrong because they introduced the movement towards a uniform nursing home bed fee in which the principle, if not stated, was inherent. If one State wanted to have a higher standard of nursing home care it was up to that State to provide the extra money. Quite frankly I agree with what Labor did and I agree with what we are doing now in having the Bailey task force talk to the States on this matter. 
One wonders whether self-contained unit aged persons accommodation can be allowed to continue in its present form. The self-contained sector has been heavily subsidised by both forms of government. In many cases the middle-class middle aged in our society have been able to transfer their responsibility for their aged parents or relatives to somebody else- to a certain extent to the community and the government. I believe we have to look at new arrangements. Those who can afford self-contained accommodation in their old age have to be encouraged by government policy to do more for themselves in the form of retirement villages. We have to make sure that the needy in our community have first priority for hostels, nursing home beds and selfcontained accommodation. I challenge Labor to criticise that approach which we are now following. I challenge Labor to deny that the inflation which it unleashed in this country, which reached 17 per cent, has done most to harm the aged in our community. If members of the Labor Party are sincere in this matter of public importance they must look at what they did in government and realise what inflation did to the aged in our society. 
I am speaking on behalf of or in place of the honourable member for Angas,  Mr Giles,  who is the  Chairman  of the Government Members Rural Committee. I inform the House that the Government Members Rural Committee basically supports this legislation and had a chance to study it before it came before the Parliament. The speech by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  was quite interesting because it was completely full of contradictions. For example, the honourable member for Blaxland criticised the adjustment scheme. If we had not introduced an adjustment scheme to bring supply and demand into line the Labor Party would criticise us for propping up or continuing to prop up an industry for which there is no longer a market. Therefore it is trying to have it both ways. Whatever we do for the industry will not be accepted by the Labor Party. The second contradiction in the honourable member's speech concerned the price stabilisation arrangements for fresh apples and pears. This Bill is basically a Bill for the provision of additional tree-pull money for the canned fruit industry. That has nothing to do with the stabilisation scheme for export apples and pears in the sense of the canned fruit industry because there is no stabilisation proposal or arrangement for that sector of the fruit industry. The honourable member for Blaxland then talked about alternative employment opportunities in these regional areas. The unemployment rate in my area is double the national average and has been for at least the last 12 months because of the Labor Party's policy. Partly because of inflation, which has increasingly priced us out of overseas markets, and partly because of the tariff cuts of the Labor Government there are reduced employment opportunities in many of the decentralised industries which are subject to import competition. Alternative employment opportunities certainly were not created when the Labor Party was in office. 
Let us look at an alternative that the Labor Party is suggesting- its alternative land use proposal. Because we now have the highest cost of production in many products as a result of our inflation rate, for which Labor is responsible, there are no alternative land use proposals. In fact at this time, for the first time in our history, many agricultural industries are subject to import threats because of the continuing higher inflation rate in our country than in other countries. In fact, the horticultural sub-committee of the Government Members Rural Committee is basically concerned about the growing import threat to many of our horticultural and agricultural industries. If one looks at the processing of canned fruit, which we are talking about tonight, one will find that the wages of a female employee in any of the Goulburn Valley canneries are higher than those in any other fruit cannery in the world, including the Californian fruit canneries. With such a high percentage of the total cost going in processing it is completely absurd for the Labor Party to talk about alternatives. The Labor Party, through its policies, has reduced to nil the alternatives that are available to this industry. 
If this tree-pull scheme is a bankrupt scheme why did the Labor Party not change it during the 3 years in which it was in power? In the 1972 election, which was known in my electorate as the rotten fruit election, the spokesmen for the Labor Party at that stage- the then honourable member for Dawson and the then honourable member for Riverina- made lavish promises about what the Labor Party would do with regard to the tree-pull scheme if it were in office. It was said that it would completely abolish the means test. The Labor Party did nothing during the 3 years in which it was in office about altering the tree-pull scheme. It cannot have it both ways. It cannot say that the tree-pull scheme is a bankrupt scheme when, during the 3 years in which it was in office, it did absolutely nothing to change it. 
There has been talk about alternatives that the Government should be seeking. The fruit industry itself tried to bring in alternative products, but what happened? A most successful and encouraging venture resulted from the requirement for the use of 5 per cent of fruit juice in aerated waters or, if you like, soft drinks. Labor removed it. One of the canneries in the Goulburn Valley spent over $2m on converting pears to pear concentrate for use in this project, only to see the requirement removed by the Labor Party. So I do not want to hear any more talk from the Labor Party about the agricultural policies of this Government. The Labor Party talks about the welfare of the people. Is it prepared to stand up in this chamber and say that the people in this industry should not have been entitled to the dole? If it were to do so that would be the most absurd contradiction that anybody could think of. 
It is not often that one has the opportunity to speak on a Bill that is designed both to establish a program and to bring an end to a program. This Bill provides for the finalisation of this scheme on 31 December, after a life of 4V4 years. A Bill was introduced on 20 September 1972 to provide for the establishment of the scheme initially for a period to 30 June 1973. It provided for an allocation of $4.6m, of which it was expected that half would go to fresh fruit, particularly export apples, and half to canning fruit, particularly canning pears. It related to the 2 categories of partial pull and clear fell. It was introduced because of the loss of viable overseas markets, particularly the traditional United Kingdom market, due to the United Kingdom's entry in the European Economic Community and the external tariff that it would provide on fruit. In other words, we were changing fairly rapidly from a situation of tariff preference in the United Kingdom, where at one stage well over half of our total fruit pack went, to one of tariff exclusion. This has required of the fruit industry a greater adjustment than has been required of any other industry in Australia. If one looks at the adjustment that has taken place in the canning fruit industry- I will leave it to the next speaker from the Government to talk about the fresh apple industry- and compares it with any secondary industry in Australia one will see that the canning fruit industry has done a far better job in adjusting to what is the realistic market situation. This Government introduced that Bill at a time when it knew that the entry of the United Kingdom into the EEC was imminent and that therefore that market would be lost. Britain 's entry into the European Economic Community and the tariff exclusion have been compounded by Britain developing its own canned fruit industry in southern Europe and also by better storage methods for fresh fruit. 
The original proposal of the previous LiberalNational Country Party Government was a means test free tree-pull compensation scheme to remove the surplus trees, to protect people remaining in the industry and to assist those who had to leave. The State governments would not agree to come in with compensation assistance and the growers were not able to provide for themselves financially. Therefore the means test was introduced. It is of some interest that the Australian Industry Development Corporation report on cannery rationalisation still recommended a grower contribution for tree pull, which to my mind is completely unfair and unjust at the present time. The means test was eased on 2 occasions before the December 1972 election by the then Minister for Primary Industry, the present Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  It was reduced to a nil net asset figure and then to a $10,000 phasing out figure. As I said earlier, the Labor Party promised in December 1972 that it would remove the means test, but upon gaining office it did nothing about it. The overall result of the scheme has been significant in regard to fresh apples in Tasmania and it may be significant in the case of canned deciduous fruit, particularly pears, in the Goulburn Valley. 
There has been a varying degree of success in the different States. To a certain extent this has been due to the way that the State administering authority applied the criteria. No one has been really happy with the scheme, and I include myself in that group. The Government- this must go for both governments, Labor and non-Labor, because the Labor Government did nothing to change it- in a way was setting a precedent in agriculture in Australia by actually financially assisting people to leave a farm or to re-structure a farm to a degree that had never occurred in agriculture before. The growers were not happy because the scheme was not generous enough. Many growers could not qualify and others felt that it was not a significant enough attraction for them to remove trees, particularly in the canned fruit industry, until this year. So generally speaking the scheme has not been successful in adjusting supply and demand. 
Values for compensation have not been increased in line with inflation over the four years and the partial pull criteria has not been adequate to result in the removal of a great number of trees. In the Goulburn Valley, where 70 per cent of the canned fruit is produced, the scheme was not of great significance until this Government further eased the means test in May of this year, at which time this Government actually doubled or halved, whichever way you like to put it, the qualifying figure under the means test on clear fell but did not change the criteria on partial pull. There had been some removal of peach trees because of a combination of climatic problems and inadequate cannery prices for the higher cost peaches. However, since the easing of the means test by this Government in May more trees have been removed in the Goulburn Valley, or applications have been made in respect of their removal, than in the previous 3V4 years of the scheme. 
To a certain extent this has been due to the easing of the means test. It has been due also to the continually deteriorating situation in the Goulburn Valley so far as export and processing opportunities for fruit are concerned and also to the announcement that the scheme will not be continued beyond December. The scheme has been extended three or four times and people have come to believe that it will continue to be extended. However the Minister has stated quite firmly that it will not be extended beyond the end of this year. I support his proposal because it has to end at some time. People have to be made to make a decision on whether they are going to be in it or not. 
Above all, the major reason why the canned fruit industry in my area is in such a terrible situation at present is because of the inflationary situation in Australia which was caused by the Labor Government. This has made our produce completely uncompetitive with that from South Africa or from the United States of America on world markets. I already have given the example of the cost of processing in this country as compared with other countries. 
I believe that the adjustment in this industry has been very significant. Many trees have been pulled outside the scheme. Originally there were 12 000 acres of canning pears in the Goulburn Valley. The true market situation requires about S000 to 6000 acres. At this stage there are about 8500 acres, and in that figure I am allowing for the 2000 acres of pears which have just been removed, or whose removal has been approved, and a similar area of pear trees which have been removed privately. Additionally, 1000 acres in the Goulburn Valley at the present time are, in effect, mothballs. Those trees will not be bearing fruit this year but they have not been pulled. However, this still leaves 60 000 tons to 65 000 tons of pears available this year. That figure is down from the figure of 120 000 tons of a few years ago. There has been a most significant adjustment in a difficult situation, but the market can absorb only 30 000 to 35 000 tons, there still will be a tremendous surplus of canned pears in the Goulburn Valley this year. I am talking about the Goulburn Valley but this must be true of some of the other canneries in other areas as well. 
There is an additional problem in that while 3 canneries remain in the Goulburn Valley the overhead cost of their continued operation will significantly reduce net returns to growers. In spite of reports by the Australian Industry Development Corporation, pressure by grower organisations and the continued disastrous fall in sterling prices, 3 canneries will be operating in the Goulburn Valley this season. In my view that is a tragedy. In spite of all efforts these 3 organisations will Still be there. I only hope that the rationalisation proposal by the Victorian Government due to be announced in the next 2 weeks will be more successful than all the proposals up to now. 
It should not be thought that there is excess cannery capacity in the Goulburn Valley only. It is equally so in Riverland in South Australia and in the Mumimbidgee Irrigation Area. In fact the Goulburn Valley has a better chance to adjust because it can move from a 3-cannery situation to a 2-cannery situation. The other two fruit growing areas cannot do so. In fact they will require more propping up by State governments than will be required in Victoria in the future. One could look at certain other political proposals by South Australia in this regard at this time. 
The continued devaluation of sterling has been a disaster to the canning fruit industry. There have been at least 5 devaluations in the last 12 months. This has hit the fruit industry, both fresh fruit and canned fruit, 'more than any other product in Australia. In fact devaluation of the Australian currency probably would assist the fresh apple export industry and the canned fruit industry more than any other industry. Reduced production has been chasing sterling devaluation. Balance has been virtually impossible if not impossible in the last 12 months. Various AIDC reports and other proposals have been out of date by the time they have been presented because the latest reduction in the value of sterling has reduced further the profitable market opportunity for a certain tonnage of Austraiian canned fruit in that country. 
I want to conclude by making several points. One is that there is a need for continual reconstruction after' 1 January. The honourable member for Blaxland made a point about one of the Industries Assistance Commission's reports. I know it is the Government's intention to bring together the various reconstruction schemes presently in operation and to have a more general scheme with emphasis in certain other areas after 1 January. That reconstruction proposal, although it will not contain tree-pull compensation, must have in it certain procedures of value to fruit growers in allowing them to adjust. In particular I hope that a household support scheme is introduced and that at the same time it does not exclude the possibility of unemployment benefits. In spite of what the honourable member for Blaxland said, the Government is concerned for the welfare of fruit growers and dairy farmers throughout Australia and their ability to gain unemployment benefits. I am not referring to the abolition of the work test but to a modification of the secondary work test, which has never applied to any salary or wage earner. These people have to pass a more difficult work test. Extension of the unemployment benefit to these people has brought some relief to hundreds of fruit growers and dairy farmers in my electorate. I believe this Government has demonstrated that it is genuinely concerned about social welfare. It should be applauded by the Opposition rather than derided by it. The second point is that the Minister must provide more money than the Sim set out in this Bill if more money is required. He is on record as saying that more money will be required if the expected applications are received by the due date. 
-Yes, I do, actually. He has always lived up to his statements, as far as I am concerned. The third important point is that the Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee which sets the prices for canning pears, peaches and. apricots should set these prices, particularly for pears, earlier than usual. The prices should be set in early December rather than in Januarylast year they were not really set for some months -to allow fruit growers the last opportunity to apply before 31 December for tree pull. We still have this excess of 2000 to 3000 acres of canning pear trees which will still remain unless the rate of application increases beyond its present level. An important point in this matter would be to set the official price for pears earlier and for the canneries to more openly declare their intake requirements so that fruit growers who may be considering whether to enter for tree pull can make up their minds whether they have a future in the industry. 
The fourth point is that the Government still has time- I urge the Government to take some action on this point- to reconsider the partial pull criteria. Partial pull is not working. If it were allowed to work by making certain adjustments to the criteria, a significant area of canning pear trees would be removed. I do not think any government supporter from Western Australia will be speaking in the debate. Last week in Western Australia when we were having talks on the fruit industry generally, the point was made that the apple industry in Western Australia suffers under the tree pull scheme because of the mixed farming nature of the apple growers. Therefore, they come under the partial pull criteria rather than under the clear fell criteria. The partial pull criteria just does not work for them. It does not work very well in the Goulburn Valley or anywhere else, either. I believe that if the Government is genuine in relation to the market situation of canning pear trees, the partial pull criteria should be eased. The next point is the absolute necessity for canning rationalisation if there is ever to be a commercial return to canning fruit growers in the Goulburn Valley in the future. Finally, I suggest there should be reconstruction of the Australian Canned Fruits Board to give it greater power to change its representation so that it can have greater power over marketing. Then we will never witness again the cut price situation which developed under the Labor Party Government 18 months ago. We should allow a better form of underwriting and first advance to fruit growers so that they can get some money within a few months of their production rather than waiting up to 12 months for a small percentage of the amount as happens at the present time. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (8.53)- I support the States Grants (Fruit-Growing Reconstruction) Bill because it gives parliamentary approval to an agreement which is to be entered into between the Commonwealth and the States along the lines set out in the exchange of letters between the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Premiers to extend the fruit growing reconstruction scheme until December 1976, and an additional provision of up to Sim for the removal of certain fruit trees in Victoria and South Australia. I was very amused to hear the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  say that the speech of the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  was full of contradictions. In listening to the honourable member for Murray I heard him say that the canning fruit industry was in a very serious position owing to inflation caused by the previous Government. But later he said that the industry was in serious trouble owing to the devaluation of sterling. It seems to me that there is a little bit of contradiction there. Also the honourable member mentioned that during the period of office of the Australian Labor Party Government no change was made to the reconstruction scheme. Of course, in that period the reconstruction scheme was serving the purpose for which it was set up. It looked as though there would be some re-establishment of the industry. 
It should be quite obvious to everyone now that this industry is no longer viable and that something should be done about it. The honourable member for Blaxland made the point that there is some contradiction between setting out a stabilisation scheme which gives people encouragement to stay in the industry and giving them money to pull the trees out. I think this is the only contradiction which the honourable member for Blaxland was pointing out. The present scheme which the Government intends to introduce provides supplementary assistance to the main rural reconstruction scheme which was commenced on 14 July 1972 to meet the special needs of the horticultural industry. There is no doubt that at the present time this scheme is urgently needed. Indeed, I think the honourable member for Murray and I would be in agreement on that point. I do not think anyone connected with the growing and sale of fresh apples and pears or canning pears, peaches or apricots would have any reason to be satisfied with the financial outlook of the industry as it is shaping up at the present time. The reconstruction scheme was originally intended to operate for one year up to June 1 973. It has been extended on 2 occasions, namely, to June 1974 and then again to 31 December 1975. As the Industries Assistance Commission was looking into special reconstruction measures for the industry which were to take place after 3 1 December, this scheme was held in abeyance. 
The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in his second reading speech stated: 
A subsidiary benefit of the scheme is that the removal of surplus trees has helped to bring the industry's productive capacity into closer alignment with the market for its products. 
It seems to me very surprising that the Minister should use the words 'a subsidiary benefit'. If we read the report of the Industries Assistance Commission we gain the impression that this is the major consideration which justifies the spending of over $5m of taxpayers' money. In any case, there appear to be 2 distinct considerations; that is, the sale of fresh apples and fresh pears and the sale of canning peaches, canning pears and canning apricots. These 2 considerations appear to me to be wide apart. Apple and pear production is concentrated in areas with favourable climatic and soil conditions. The major part of the production is sold on the domestic market and returns from these sales have generally kept pace with the production and marketing costs. This is a finding in the IAC report. According to the report these fruits have the potential to be thoroughly viable activities without production or marketing subsidies. 
The minority part of the total production has faced growing marketing difficulties. Australia's remoteness from the major world markets in Europe and North America is a major problem. Of course, fresh apples and pears are costly to export. They need a good deal of looking after, and of course the freight rates are very high at the present time. The honourable member for Murray has already pointed out that the currency has appreciated relative to the currency in the Southern Hemisphere. Between 1967-68 and 1974-75 an amount of $30m was spent to reduce the rate at which export income on these commodities had fallen. The Commission has found these schemes to be too expensive to the community. In 1973-74 direct subsidies averaging $14,000 to each grower were provided to Tasmanian apple growers with a net farm income which averaged less than $4,000. In the light of that information, it would be hard to justify further production for export purposes. Of course, it is the people who produce, service and market the production who are important, and it is those people and not production whom we should consider when introducing Bills such as this. While $30m was spent to continue uneconomic production between those years, payment for the apple and pear industry under the treepull system amounted to only $2m. 
It is obvious from the experience gained over that period that there should be some reversal of that trend. It is not much good saying that, in the light of the experience we had over that time, the Labor Government should have done something about it. We have gained that experience and we should be able to bring about some change in our approach. What is the good of making it more attractive to produce more fruit when we cannot sell it? Would it not be better to make it more attractive for people to leave the industry? That is what we should be aiming at in this Bill. Subsidies often result in increased production in areas which already have an over-production problem. These subsidies have not provided sufficiently for the personal well-being of the growers and their families who are involved in the production of these fruits. The grower with larger exports and often a larger income has received a greater part of the assistance. Where the need to maintain the income of the grower is the greatest, as in the case of the small fruit grower, the assistance has been the least. We should be considering provisions to pay .a larger amount of money to encourage growers to leave the industry instead of making it more attractive for them to stay there. The operation of the treepull scheme at the same time as the provision of a price subsidy resulted on the one hand in encouragement to growers to grow more and on the other hand in paying other growers to leave the industry. Of course, that system has had to be maintained to some degree in order to provide against a complete collapse of the industry, with consequential severe hardship for many of those involved. 
Moving to the canning of fruit, other schemes are involved where a heavy subsidy has been provided to the canning factories. I think the Minister ought to have said more about this in his second reading speech so that honourable members would be fully acquainted with all the factors concerned in the growing of fruit. At the present stage, all we can do is support the Bill before the House and hope that the Minister and those concerned in the industry will give further consideration to some of the points put forward. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) What steps are being taken by his Department to assist Australian cheese manufacturers to obtain protection from the allegedly unfair cheese imports from New Zealand and from a number of other countries. 
What role does his Department, or he as Minister, have in any decision on cheese imports (a) from New Zealand under NAFTA, (b) from other countries with the Temporary Assistance Authority or the Industries Assistance Commission or (c) from all countries with regard to dumping. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Does he consider that there should be an industry panel or committee to monitor and advise on the importation of cheese from New Zealand or other countries: if so, what action is he taking; if not, why not. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What section 96 grants, which directly or indirectly provide money for capital facilities or recurring expenditure items for or through local government are presently available to that tier of government. 
Which of them will end when the next stage of the Federalism POliCY is introduced. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Which of the various methods of improving the spreadability of butter appears to be the closest to commercial application, and offers the best hope of improving butter's image with the consumer. 
What evidence is there from overseas countries that any of these methods are practical, acceptable to the public and capable of reversing the declining per capita consumption of butter. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the oriental fruit fly been discovered in any new areas of the Northern Territory or any of the States since the initial realisation that the pest was well established on the mainland. 
) Has it been discovered in any varieties of fruit. 
Is there now an adequate number and placement of traps actually to define and monitor its penetration of the continent. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Further to his answer to question No. 65  (Hansard,  4 June 1976, page 3101) relating to the waiver of charges for pensioner patients admitted to Canberra hospitals under private practitioners, is the same procedure accepted for the States under the new Hospitals Agreements. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What research is being conducted into allergic diseases in Australia, by whom and at what cost. 
What expertise does the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee possess in allergic diseases and their treatment. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Will he accept the recommendation of the recently released Industries Assistance Commission Report on Dairy Industry Marketing Arrangements and instruct the Bureau of Agricultural Economics to obtain detailed information on the processing sector for an Industries Assistance Commission reference and report on adjustment assistance for that sector of the dairy industry by 30 June 1 978. 
2 ) If so, when will the study begin. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What has been the (a) Australian production and (b) amount of imports of (i) eucalyptus dives or peritone and (ii) cineole for each of the last 3 financial years. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it the intention of the Government to provide Radio Australia, or whatever organisation is responsible in the future for external broadcasting services, with comparable transmission equipment to that being provided in other countries. 
Has his attention been drawn to reports that the greater range and volume of other countries' transmitters are crowding out Radio Australia in South-East Asia. 
What action has been taken or will be taken on  Sir Keith  Waller's recommendations for Radio Australia. 
When will the Darwin transmitter be rebuilt. 
When will the Radio Australia facility at Shepparton receive modern equipment to replace the outdated, 30 year old equipment now being used. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the estimated cost to the Federal and various State Governments of the underwriting of skim milk powder for the 1973-76 season, and what will be the estimated cost in the 1 976-77 season, if continued to the end of the season. 
What is the estimated cost to the Federal Government of the recently announced underwriting for butter and cheese, if it is continued to the end of the season. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon  notice: 
1 ) Was a payment of $760 made to the Karolinska Institute in Sweden early in 1975, reference OA 1-122 of the  Gazette,  for the testing of Calaid hearing aids, and of $ 1 400 to the University of Maryland, reference OA1-123, for the measurement of Calaid hearing aids. 
If so, what were the terms of the reference or instructions or criteria to these bodies from the National Acoustic Laboratories for the testing and measuring. 
Have the reports been received from these bodies. 
As public money is involved, and there is the important principle of accountability to Parliament of Government organisations such as the National Acoustic Laboratories, will copies of these reports be tabled or otherwise made available to Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Business and 
Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
What is the present position of anti-dumping applications against New Zealand by the processed cheese, gouda cheese and pie apple industries. 
What other anti-dumping applications or actions are presently before his Department from agricultural or horticultural industries against industries in New Zealand or any other country. 
Has the Minister for Transport seen reports of the criticism made by the Premier of Victoria that the Federal Government is not doing enough to induce overseas Airline operators to fly into Tullamarine Airport? Can the Minister say how many overseas airlines presently fly into Tullamarine Airport and what are the arguments advanced by overseas charter operators for not wanting to land at Tullamarine Airport? 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Are many agricultural and horticultural industries threatened by dumped or low cost imports at the present time. 
Is the confusion of departmental responsibility, type of protection required, questionnaires and responsible officer, etc., preventing many of these industries from making use of available protection measures. 
3 ) Will he, either from within his own Department, or in conjunction with the Departments of Industry and Commerce, Overseas Trade, and Business and Consumer Affairs, prepare a simple document on the procedures, criteria and contact telephone numbers in those Departments on the various import protection measures available to the various agricultural and horticultural industries. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the likelihood of an on crop from apples in 1977, combined with overseas marketing problems and a Tasmanian freight equalisation arrangement, could result in a disastrous mainland marketing situation for fresh apples this season. 
Will he once again consider the re-introduction of the sales tax exemption on aerated waters containing 5 per cent fruit juice as a way of alleviating this problem. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Minister recently announce grants for medical research programs through the Australian Research Grants Committee and to the CSIRO Division of Human Nutrition. 
If so, what co-ordination is there with the National Health and Medical Research Council to avoid duplication and obtain the most cost effective use of Government research money. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Is there discrimination against a particular age group of blind pensioners relative to other blind pensioners which has been brought about by actions of the former Labor Government. 
If so, what is being done to remove this discrimination. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
Will he publish a monthly register of strikes, work to regulation campaigns, etc., showing (a) the type of strike, (b) whether it is political or industrial, (c) the demands made by the strikers and (d) how the decision was made to take the action, in order to bring to the notice of the people of Australia the extent of this action and its cost to the country? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
What steps are being taken by the Department of Industry and Commerce to assist cheese manufacturers to obtain protection from the allegedly unfair cheese imports from New Zealand and from a number of other countries. 
What role does the Department of Industry and Commerce or the Minister have in any decision on cheese imports (a) from New Zealand, (b) from other countries with the Temporary Assistance Authority or the Industries Assistance Commission or (c) from all countries with regard to dumping. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
What progress has been achieved with the implementation of apprenticeship courses for the tractor, farm machinery, industrial, construction and earthmoving industries. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How was the horse disease, equine babesiosis, introduced into Australia. 
What action has been taken to prevent any further entry of this disease. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
In order that articles such as that written by a  Mr Jack  Waterford in the  Canberra Times  of 2 1 October 1 976 are not repeated, will he instruct health authorities at Alice Springs that Murray Valley Encephalitis no longer exists, as it is now called Arbo Encephalitis. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What action is being taken to safeguard Australians from the dangers of dioxins and related compounds. 
Where are these compounds in particular tetrachlorodioxin, manufactured or formulated in Australia. 
Is there any possibility of the Seveso tragedy occurring in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is he satisfied with quarantine procedures being applied to imported avocados from California, to ensure that they are free of all pests and diseases. 
Is there concern in the Australian industry that the introduction of such diseases would be catastrophic for the local industry. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) In the Industries Assistance Commission's report on a National Dairy Herd Improvement Scheme is the herd improvement aspect of greater immediate importance, and has it the greater likelihood of early implementation, than the herd health aspect. 
Will he request the committee or working party to investigate the possibility of an Australasian progeny test scheme to provide a better cow population, and also to investigate the use of the New Zealand Dairy Board computer service for herd recording and progeny testing either in the development of an Australian computer program or an Australasian program. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to question No. 9 1 4, have any or all of the voluntary advertising codes of the various sectors of the liquor industry mentioned in his reply been accepted by the Government. 
If not, what is the position with each group. 
If so, when will the codes come into practice, and what policing mechanism will be used. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What are the procedures for the purchase of livestock, particularly dairy cattle, for foreign aid programs such as the sheep and cattle projects at Hissar in India. 
What requirements are there to ensure that superior quality breeding stock are purchased, and that this assessment is genetically sound. 
What procedures are there to check these requirements. 
Are contracts let to purchasing agents purely on a commercial basis. 
Has he considered the use of breed societies or expert organisations, such as the Victorian Artificial Breeders Society, in the place of private agents. 
Has consideration been given to the use of proven semen at the Hissar cattle station in place of unproven pedigree bulls. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) When a request is made by an Australian foreign aid team for a replacement part or for new or additional machinery, through which Government Departments is the request processed before the item is finally dispatched. 
Has there been criticism of undue delay in the fulfilment of these requests or orders. 
Have simple replacement parts sometimes been delayed for months because of cumbersome departmental procedures. 
Are purchase procedures sufficiently flexible to allow foreign aid teams to purchase equipment, vehicles or tractors in the recipient country rather than Australia when it is obvious that the initial purchase and /or the provision of replacement parts is more efficiently obtained in that country. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What is his attitude to the criticism that cancer and heart disease are receiving too high a percentage of medical research grants to the detriment of other areas, particularly basic biological research. 
What is the category allocation of current Government medical research grants. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Is there a possibility of a breakdown in the dairy herd improvement schemes of the various States due to the inability of dairy farmers to pay for herd test and artificial breeding services. 
Does the Industries Assistance Commission's study on National Dairy Herd Improvement provide an opportunity to assist herd improvement and provide a better basis for progeny testing. 
If so, what steps will be taken to discuss and implement these herd improvement proposals. 
What opportunity will there be for herd improvement organisations to submit proposals. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Further to question No. 506 and correspondence on the subject of the disadvantaged schools program and rural schools, what State education authorities are using the socioeconomic scale developed by Broom, Jones and Zubrycki in 1 965 for the determination of eligibility for the program. 
What work has been done by the Australian Council of Educational Research or the Schools Commission or other bodies to update the socio-economic scale to recognise the significant shifts in wealth in the various occupation categories since 1965. 
If nothing has been done, will the Minister initiate research on this matter. 
Is the Victorian Education Department currently reviewing the socio-economic scale or the disadvantaged criteria. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Further to question No. 977 and the monitoring of the oriental fruit fly, does the Government agree that, although monitoring activities outside the Northern Territory are not a Commonwealth responsibility, the possible spread of oriental fruit fly is a national problem. 
Has he discussed with the Western Australian and Queensland authorities a co-ordinated monitoring program in the appropriate locations in those States; if not, will this be done. 
-Earlier speakers in this debate have indicated the purpose of the 3 Bills which are designed to extend the provisions of the present temporary stevedoring arrangements for a further 6 months. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  explained the situation in his second reading speech on 6 May when he said that the present conditions would be extended for a further six months. He laid down some of the guidelines that the Government would be looking for or working towards in its policy of replacing the existing provisions with a better, more satisfactory and more permanent arrangement for the waterfront. The new arrangements have not come in in time; therefore the extension. As other speakers pointed out, the delay is due to a very complicated situation and to the need to resolve several issues at the same time- the problem of redundancy, new control mechanisms and arrangements in any new policy, etc. 
To me, the delay has certain worthwhile features about it. I refer to the information revealed at the Prices Justification Tribunal hearings. The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  referred to some ofthe figures quoted concerning the commissions, the director's fees and so forth of the stevedoring company, James Patrick and 
Co. Pty Ltd which is being investigated at present by the PJT. To me and to many other Australians, if not to those who are already expert in waterfront affairs, the figures have shown that there are factors in the employer area of the waterfront which are just as deserving of criticism as is the area of the employees or the unions. I believe that it is very important, because of these revelations, that any new arrangements which the Government introduces for the waterfront should control the unfair practices of employers as well as and as much as the unions or the employees if we are to have a cost efficient and effective waterfront for the benefit of all Australians. 
I refer to a few examples of the information that has been revealed. Examples will be used against both employers and employees. I quote firstly from yesterday's  Australian Financial Review  which reported the final addresses to the Prices Justification Tribunal. I suppose one could say that certain questions were put from the employer's point of view. The questions were: Why was the man-hour divisor as low as 798 at Sydney whereas it was 1522 at Port Kembla? Why was worker's compensation charged at 28 per cent in an instance for Brisbane whereas the rate was 7.2 per cent? I could quote other points. Other questions were: Why had the cost of a gross man hour of waterside worker labour moved from $2,572 in 1962 to $7,556 in 1974, and why in 2 years it had now doubled to $15.46? These are very important questions for which the answers must be found in the formulation of the Government's policy. 
At an earlier PJT hearing, as reported in the  Financial Review  of 25 October, evidence was given about the stevedoring industry. I quote from that article. 
One Australian glass importer, Astor Glass Industries, has put these charges into a commercial perspective in terms of glass imports in the following terms: 
Those terms generally are the costs on the waterfront. I continue quoting from the article: 
Sorting and stacking charges for Sydney and Adelaide ports, as they stand today, represent the single largest added cost after f.o.b. value and ocean freight, for the kind of product we import. 
Expressed as a nominal rate of tariff protection, sorting and stacking charges would be the equivalent of a duty of approximately 20 per cent  ad valorem,  whereas the general tariff rate is 15 per cent. 
In other words, the waterfront provides more effective tariff protection than does the Government 's tariffs. I am sure the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  would be interested in that area of tariff protection. I quote again: 
That is to say, sorting and stacking rates, as a kind of natural protection, represent a greater barrier to importing window glass than the Government intended by way of tariff protection. 
As far as glass is concerned, the service we receive and pay for is for the transporting of cases from ship's side by forklift into wharf shed, and placement in upright stacks according to marks. 
Total distance travelled would be rarely more than 60 metres and total time no more than 5 minutes per case (about one tonne each). 
For this service in Sydney we are currently paying $18.10 per tonne. 
In comparison to this we employ a carrier at the rate of $5.40 per tonne to load, deliver, receive and temporarily store our glass, which obviously involves much greater utilisation of labour and machinery than that required for wharf sorting and stacking. Yet wharf sorting and stacking costs are 140 percent higher.' 
I now quote from the current affairs program-  A Current Affair  series 'The Australian Waterfront', part 2 and part 4, of 6 October and 8 October, the interviewers are Mike Minehan and Tony Ward. Tony Ward said: 
In the recent April to June period the average earnings of a Sydney wharfie were $205 for 24 hours work. At the container terminal they were $309 for 33 hours work and at Beauty Point in Tasmania, $33 1 for 34 hours work. The average earnings over the same period for an Australian male were $ 1 7 1 for 40 hours work. Apart from their high pay rates they are paid double time for a midnight shift, double time and a half for Sundays and they also enjoy benefits such as a 25 per cent loading on holiday pay, a 25 per cent loading on long service leave, a generous pension scheme, accumulated sick leave, fully payable on termination of employment, and their three-quarters of an hour lunch break is part of their 7-hour working day. They have achieved already the 35-hour working week. But more important than that, no retrenchment. They cannot be retired before they reach sixty-five whether there is work for them or not. 
I quote from part four: 
When the Federal Government reorganised the waterfront in 1967 and gave permanency to employees, it was banking on containerisation keeping freight costs for our imports and exports down, and above all, labour costs controls. In reality just the reverse has happened. In the last 18 months alone, container terminal charges have risen 85 per cent. Labour represents 75 per cent of this total. 
An administrator who was being interviewed said: 
On 20-foot containers we are about 2 to 3 times higher. New York charges $69 a container, San Francisco $53, London $60 and m Sydney we have to pay $ 1 54. 
Another administrator said: 
The system here which is different from anywhere else in the world is that the 40-foot container attracts charges exactly twice those of a 20-foot container. This is completely unreasonable and anomalous because it involves no more effort to lift the 40-foot container than it does a 20-foot container. 
That is the end of the quotation from  A Current Affair. 
I want to quote some other figures on the problems of cost created by the position on the waterfront. I emphasise that I am not apportioning blame between the employees and the employers. I would think blame rests somewhere, if not equally, between the two. I deal firstly with wool. In May 1975 the Australian Wool Corporation revealed that taking wool from a Melbourne wool store to a ship's hold cost 7.22c a kilo. For the ship to take the wool to Europe and have it delivered to a mill door cost 8.49c a kilo. The apple grower gets approximately $2 a carton for all of his labour. The cost of a carton of apples becomes $4.50 by the time the apples are picked, packed and delivered alongside a ship. It then costs $1.17 a carton just to load those apples into the ship. It now costs about $24 to shift a tonne of bagged rice from the rail truck beside the ship in Sydney into the hold of the ship. By comparison the rice mill has to receive, store, transport, mill, quality control- in fact, do everything- for $23 a tonne compared with $24 a tonne to move the stuff from the rail truck into the ship. 
With the history of the waterfront and its cost to every person in this country, as shown so clearly by these figures and by other speakers today, it is tremendously important that the correct decision is made about control mechanisms and arrangements for the future on the waterfront. I believe the Minister indicated that it is the Government's intention to move out of its regulatory role, through the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority, rather than to move the other way- that is, virtually to acquire or nationalise the industry. When referring to some of the important areas of concern in making decisions as to how this will be accomplished, the Minister, in his 18 November speech, referred to 3 special areas. They were: 
Measures aimed at securing cost restraint. 
Measures to protect the interests of the staff of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. 
Measures to overcome the problems of the industry as had been identified in the report presented to me by  Mr Justice  Northrop. 
I emphasise as strongly as I can that if we are taking this role for the future- I am in no way disagreeing with it- it is tremendously important that the Government establish, through a market force system or some other system, a mechanism which will prevent an unholy alliance between the employer and the employee on the waterfront which will be to the detriment of all Australians, particularly those who live by exports or imports. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Will apples be included in the Tasmanian southbound freight equalisation arrangement as they have been in the northbound arrangement. 
If so, will the subsidy be at the same rate. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Do health maintenance organisations in the United States of America generally use their own hospitals rather than community hospitals. 
If so, does this reduce the likely effectiveness of health maintenance organisations in Australia. 
What are the proposed hospital arrangements for the Wollongong health maintenance organisation project. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
Are many agricultural and horticultural industries threatened by dumped or low cost imports at the present time. 
Is the confusion of departmental responsibility, type of protection required, questionnaires and responsible officer, etc., preventing many of these industries from making use of available protection measures. 
Will he, either from within his own Department, or in conjunction with the Departments of Industry and Commerce, Primary Industry, and Overseas Trade, prepare a simple document on the procedures, criteria and contact telephone numbers in those Departments on the various import protection measures available to the various agricultural and horticultural industries. 
-The honourable member for Petrie  (Mr, Hodges)  referred to the long standing disagreement between the Pharmacy Guild of Australia and the Government. He referred to the impact, of the agreement to amend section 99 of the National Health Act which will provide an independent arbitrator. 
The core of the dispute over the years has been that the veto power of the Minister for Health has prevented independent arbitration. In an attempt to resolve this long standing dispute, in 1972 the then Minister for Health  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson made an agreement with the Guild to have the  Chairman  of the Joint Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits Pricing Arrangements,  Sir Walter  Scott, make some recommendations for adoption by Government. When the Australian Labor Party came to office the Minister for Health,  Dr Everingham,  confirmed that arrangement. In May 1975 the recommendation was handed down which, if adopted, would cost approximately $73m. The Labor Government at that time did not honour its confirmation of the agreement made by  Sir Kenneth  Anderson to pay the full amount of $73m. It paid $33m. I am not saying whether that was the right or wrong decision. I am only referring to that point. 
Following that, relations between the Pharmacy Guild and the previous Government deteriorated until the Guild was about to issue a High Court writ in November last year. Then the dissolution of the Parliament occurred, we had an election and this Government was returned to power. At that time I was the shadow Minister for Health for the Liberal and National Country parties. I stated: 
We will investigate the establishment of a more satisfactory method of setting chemists' professional fees. As a matter of urgency, a Liberal-National Country Party Government will re-open negotiations with the Pharmacy Guild to satisfactorily conclude the unresolved recommendations of the committee under  Sir Walter  Scott investigating chemists' professional fees. 
I want to congratulate the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  who is sitting at the table, for the implementation of that policy. The initial offer to the Pharmacy Guild by the present Government was 5c, or a total of $15m, which fell short of the disputed figure. In a reaction to this the Pharmacy Guild went ahead and issued the writ. I am one who has said that the Pharmacy Guild acted too abruptly, that it should then have gone into negotiation with the Government on this matter. There are those in the Pharmacy Guild who disagree with me, who say that they tried patience for close to 20 years and it failed, that this was the only course. However, behind the scenes, patient negotiation did continue between the Minister, members of the Government Members Health and Welfare Committee and members of the Pharmacy Guild. That patient negotiation has paid off. An initial agreement was reached between the Minister and the Guild which resulted in the deferment of the writ. Once this Bill has passed through both Houses of the Parliament and the Act has been proclaimed, I understand that the agreement provides that the writ will be withdrawn. I am looking forward to the withdrawal of that writ before Christmas. Not only will that be a great Christmas present for the pharmacists and the Pharmacy Guild of Australia, it will also be an acknowldgement of the rebuilding of trust between the retail chemists of Australia and this Government. I join the honourable member for Petrie in congratulating the Minister for Health and the senior officials of the Pharmacy Guild, in particular  Mr Alan  Russell and  Mr John  Scown for the patient and constructive negotiations which have brought this divisive issue to a satisfactory conclusion after so many years. However, as the honourable member for Petrie and others have mentioned, that does not mean the end of problems for retail chemists and for pharmacy in Australia. There is a surplus of chemists in certain urban areas and there are problems of viability for chemists in certain country areas. I understand that the Minister has taken up with the Guild the matter of viability of chemists in certain country regions and I look forward to an announcement by the Minister on some procedure that will ensure the continued presence of retail chemists in smaller country communities. 
The other basic problem is the form of pharmacy remuneration, as distinct from determination. In my view the form of determination should take into greater account the professional role of the pharmacist and a more positive approach to health care. I will call it sickness prevention rather than drug therapy. I refer to an article entitled 'Drugs Under Health Insurance Abroad' in 'Pink Pages', the United States Pharmacy Journal dated 8 November 1976. It contains a report of a recent seminar held in the United States organised by the United States Department of Health, Education and Welfare in which the national health schemes of 6 countries were discussed. Australia was one of the countries that were of considerable interest because it has a national health scheme. Australia has one of the oldest national health schemes in the world and one of the greatest interest to countries in the Western world. 
Theodore Goldberg of Wayne State School of Medicine attacked the pharmacy reimbursements systems that are based exclusively on the notion of product transfer, or a commercial transaction. He particularly criticised the British and Australian method of acquisition cost plus mark-up plus fee. He said: 
You're not interested in how we pay, but how much. Pharmacy has taken an out-moded method of payment and carried it to a ridiculous extreme. The Australian system is so backward that you would provide a 'fee' for service when there is no service; it boggles the mind. It's retrogressive, ridiculous, outmoded and permits so little experimentation. For all our faults, there is more innovation and experimentation at the pharmacy level here in the US 0270than any any of your countries have tried. 
Australia's Arthur E. Shields, supported by Britain's T. Douglas Whittet, agreed that pharmacy reimbursement systems are antiquated and that Australian pharmacists are now locked into the situation. He said: 
It's not easy to change, but if it is to change, pharmacy must demonstrate to government the value of the change. 
I do not mean any criticism of anybody quoted or of the fact that at an international seminar people are questioning not the way in which the determination is arrived at, that is, the level of the fee, but whether that is the correct basis for determination. I do not particularly want to start a row with the Pharmacy Guild just at the moment when it is satisfactorily concluding what has been a long standing problem. After talking to pharmacists around Australia, I believe that they recognise that there is still a basic problem of resolving a satisfactory professional approach to pharmacy and to positive attitudes and counselling on health care with the present payment system that we have. 
I would also like to draw the attention of the Minister to the fact that when members were given copies of the Bill to amend the principal Act, without the principal Act itself, we were given, I think, 1 1 or 12 separate sheets of paper containing various amendments. I know that both the previous Government and this Government have been fairly active in amending different aspects of the National Health Bill. The Minister, probably more than anyone else, hopes that that degree of change will not continue. If that is to be the case, I appeal to the Minister to have a consolidated document fairly soon and get back to one weighty volume rather than chase pieces of paper all over the place. That is not a criticism of the Minister or anybody else. It is just one of the things that has developed. I hope that something can be done about it. To conclude, I once again congratulate the Minister and the leadership of the Pharmacy Guild for the faith which they developed in each other that the policy announced and ennunciated by the Liberal-National Country Parties at the previous election campaign would be honoured. I congratulate them because as a result of this faithful and patient negotiation that commitment has now been honoured. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What action is being taken to correct untrue and misleading labelling and advertising of table margarine. 
What co-ordination is there between his Depanment and the National Health and Medical Research Council on this matter. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
Who provided the basic information for the Industries Assistance Commission investigation into a National Dairy Herd Improvement Scheme, and who gave evidence to the Commissioners. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is the Fawnmac group of companies still for sale; if so, what is the best offer received for the companies to date. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry upon notice: 
1 ) Does he consider that his Department has provided an adequate investigative and reporting service on the effect of the European drought on market prospects for Australian agriculture. 
How was this information gained and disseminated to the farmers of Australia. 
What is his attitude to the criticism of many rural organisation leaders that Australia has been badly served in this matter when compared with the service provided by New Zealand, Canada and the United States of America. 
asked the Acting Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
1 ) What recent action has been taken by him or his Department to have the very high European Economic Community tariff on canned fruit reduced? 
What action is contemplated? 
Is there a greater possibility of a tariff reduction with canned fruit than with most of the other Australian agricultural exports to the EEC? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Further to question No. 23, how much has been or is to be paid to the vendor of the Fawnmac group of companies as his share of the 1 975-76 profit, and who is the vendor. 
Will this be the final purchase payment, and will any director receive any additional payment relative to the financial performance of the company. 
Is  Mr Hemming  the Manager and the  Chairman  of Directors; if so, what salary and other allowances does he receive in either of these positions. 
What is the total payment made by the Government to  Mr Hemming  in capital, salary, allowance, profit share, etc., in the acquisition and administration of the group of companies. 
What is the contractual arrangement between  Mr Hemming  and the Fawnmac group and the Government 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Was the recommendation of the Institute of Chartered Accountants followed in determining the depreciation of buildings and net profit for Croydon Investments Pty Ltd, one of the Fawnmac group of companies; if not, why not. 
Will the recommendation be adhered to this financial year. 
Does Croydon Investments Pty Ltd have shares in Barker House Pty Ltd; if so, why. 
What is the purpose of this company, and who are the major shareholders. 
Are any of the directors of the Fawnmac group shareholders and/or directors of Barker House Pty Ltd. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the present stage of the Animal Health Laboratory at Geelong. 
What progress will be made during 1976-77 and what progress is proposed or hoped for in 1 977-78. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that rural processing co-operatives, such as dairy factories, are not able to obtain sufficient capital for plant modernisation, etc., and therefore they are disadvantaged relative to proprietary factories. 
Is this disadvantage compounded at the present time by the poverty of the farmer shareholders, traditional suppliers of capital. 
If so, what steps are being taken to remove this disadvantage, and to provide co-operatives with similar provisions for borrowing to those existing in most western nations 
Can he ensure that the Rural Bank includes a section for rural co-operatives, and that this sections sets realistic limits and terms for co-operatives. 
-The Minister for Primary Industry will be aware of the concern in the dairy industry that the Government has not announced the continuation of underwriting of skim milk powder, butter, cheese and casein for the final 6 months of the current production year, from 1 January to 30 June 1977. When will the decision be made? When it is being considered will the Minister put to Cabinet that there should be an increased level of underwriting to allow a payment of approximately 65c per lb for fat in milk? Does the Minister agree that, as the firmer trend for exports plus devaluation will mean that the actual government financial contribution to the underwriting will be minimal or non-existent and as the present return of approximately 60c is inadequate, 65c is the more correct level of underwriting? 
-The States Grants (Rural Adjustment) Bill enshrines the Government's new rural adjustment scheme. As such it is one of the most important developments in the implementation of a comprehensive rural policy. The Government has been criticised for having no grand strategy for rural industry and for not immediately implementing such a strategy. This is an ignorant and naive view of the complex interaction of local and international economic policies and politics, not to mention the weather and pests which would almost immediately negate any such policy. Further, a generalised policy does not allow for the detailed and particular problems of individual industries, particularly with stabilisation. The Australian Labor Party through its shadow Minister has an equally simplistic view. The shadow Minister implied that the returns which farmers should receive are going to the middle men. He forgets that it is the wages and inflation in this country which are sending up the rates of pay of the employees in the various sectors of the processing industry. There is also the suggestion of virtual nationalisation of rural industry. One can also throw in the attitude of the Victorian Australian Labor Party of doing away with freehold land titles in that State. 
Rural industry policy cannot be isolated from general economic policy. In fact, it is due to the failure of the Labor Government's economic policy, with its consequent inflation, which to a certain extent makes necessary the present adjustment scheme. I shall give 2 examples to highlight this suggestion. The Bureau of Agricutural Economics net farm income figure, to which the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  referred, indicates that for this financial year farm income will be about half what it was 3 years ago. Even with devaluation, it will be $40 a week less than average weekly earnings. Taken over the full 12 months, it probably will work out at about 25 per cent less- and that has to take into account return on capital, managerial skill and the long hours required in farming. 
The second example is that provided by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  in his tariff statement last night. He said:  . . in the last 6 years wages in Australia's manufacturing industry increased by 130 per cent compared with S3 per cent in the United States and 70 per cent in West Germany. 
If wages have increased in the manufacturing industry, they certainly have increased at least equally in tertiary industry in this country. So one can see the cost-price problem which agriculture in Australia faces. Because of this, adjustment has been forced on the rural industry to a greater degree than that required by change, which is always taking place in agriculture, and also by the special circumstances following Britain's entry into the Common Market. The industry is deserving of government assistance because it is government action, or lack of action, in its economic policy that has forced this adjustment upon rural industry. In the past, agriculture has not been assisted with its adjustment and cyclical problems to the same extent as secondary industry has been assisted. Employers in secondary industry can always reduce the number of employees, knowing that the Government will provide for those employees automatically through unemployment benefits and knowing that those people will be available in the labour pool when those same employers or other employers once again can take on labour. Tariff assistance measures also are of greater value to manufacturing industry in controlling the adjustment process. 
So, adjustment policy is an essential part of an agricultural policy. However, for a complete adjustment policy more emphasis has to be put on retirement from agriculture, which the Government is now beginning to accept through its household support arrangements, and entry into agriculture. I will refer to this matter again later. The second aspect of a complete package of agricultural policies is welfare policy. In the past, Liberal and National Country Party governments have not placed sufficient emphasis on welfare policy, and I acknowledge the criticism that has come from Labor spokesmen in this regard. But, even though the Labor Party said that it would do more in regard to welfare policy in agriculture, it did not do it. In our 12 months in government we have introduced 2 significant policy proposals for welfare in agriculture. The first has been the extension of unemployment benefits to farmers and the second has been the abolition of the property test for pensions, leaving only an income test, which will be of tremendous assistance to farming people. This was recognised by Professor Henderson in his report on poverty as one of the major social injustices in our present social security arrangements. 
The third aspect of an agricultural policy must be a credit or finance policy. Already we have term loans arrangements, farm development loans, the Commonwealth Development Bank and rural credits advances to marketing boards. The carry-on loans, which will be broadened by this new adjustment scheme from just the beef and dairy industries to a general carry-on situation, will overcome the short term liquidity problems for which there has been a gap in our credit policy in this country. It is hoped that it will provide a similar service to that which the Production Credit Associations have provided for agriculture in the United States of America for many years. It is hoped that the introduction of the rural bank and the young farmer establishment scheme will fill other very large and important gaps and provide a better credit and finance policy. The young farmer establishment scheme will provide a more complete adjustment policy by assisting entry into agriculture as well as retirement from agriculture. 
The fourth aspect of an agricultural policy must be industry stabilisation. For this to occur, the co-operation of both industry and government is required. Government cannot and should not force a scheme on an industry. An industrybyindustry approach is required, because of the differences among agricultural industries. At the present time we see further developments taking place in the wool industry. The wheat industry for many years has been the best example of stabilisation, but the wheat stabilisation plans suffer from the great weakness of section 92 trading. It is hoped that the levy mechanism in the new dairy plan which is under discussion at the present time will overcome one of the weaknesses of past agricultural stabilisation schemes. There is a great need for further industry stabilisation arrangements for both the canned fruit industry and the beef industry at the present time. An important aspect of industry stabilisation is personal income stabilisation or income stabilisation. The Government's introduction of income equalisation deposits will play an important part in the farmer's stabilisation of his own income. I hope that in the next Budget there will be some overdue improvements to the income tax averaging arrangements for primary producers. This will further assist the farmer to help himself through personal income stabilisation measures. 
Another aspect of an industry stabilisation policy is the need for disaster insurance arrangements- this was referred to earlier today- for crop failure, flood, fire and so on. We are told that this matter is being investigated at the present time. I emphasise that what we have in this country at the present time- we have virtually nothing- is certainly much less than the wheat growers in New Zealand have had for about 30 years and is less than what is generally available in the United States under its crop failure scheme. I hope that this Government will come up with better disaster arrangements for agriculture for the future. The fifth aspect of an agricultural policy is international arrangements. We must have access to overseas markets and then stability of and continuing access to those markets at reasonable prices. 
The final and most important part of any agricultural policy is general economic policy itself. This is of overriding importance to agriculture. It is more important than any of the other individual aspects I have mentioned, particularly with an agricultural industry which is largely an export industry. For the last 10 years farmers have been complaining about the cost-price squeeze. In the last 2 years, with Australia's runaway inflation, the cost-price squeeze crunch has really hit agriculture in this country. An agricultural policy as a total policy package is essential so that more than the marginally viable farmers can be assisted. Generally, reconstruction measures such as our new adjustment proposals assist only the marginally viable farmers. An agricultural policy is important so that as many farmers as possible can be helped to help themselves and so that the special policies of adjustment are not as necessary as they are at the present time. From the point of view of a rural person, much more is needed than just an agricultural policy. There has to be a general rural policy as well as an agricultural policy. Those who live in rural communities, whether they live on farms or in country towns, need such things as communications, telephones, transport, fuel prices equalisation, reasonable educational opportunities and special health and welfare services. 
The new scheme follows on and consolidates several other reconstruction schemes. The first reconstruction scheme of recent times was the marginal dairy farm scheme which commenced in mid- 1970. It was followed by the rural reconstruction scheme in mid- 1971 and the fruit growing reconstruction scheme in 1972. Britain's entry into the Common Market was one of the major reasons for the introduction of those earlier schemes. Up to the end of September 1976 approximately $224m had been advanced under the rural reconstruction scheme, more than $50m for the various dairy schemes including dairy carry-on loans, $4m to $5m for fruit and $26m for beef carry-on loans, making a total of about $305m. I want to make 2 qualifications to that figure: Firstly, some of that money is State money for the States' 50 per cent of the carry-on loan arrangements and, secondly it is mainly loan money, not grant money. 
In round figures 18 000 farmers have been assisted under these schemes- 8400 with rural reconstruction, 2700 with beef carry-on loans, 1300 with fruit industry reconstruction or the tree-pull scheme and almost 6000 with the dairy schemes. The Government's commitment for the remaining 6 months of this financial year when the scheme will be operative could go as high as $40m. This will depend on the degree of carry-on loans provided and also the degree of household support which comes from general revenue and is not specifically appropriated under this scheme. That, of course, is additional to what is appropriated for this scheme. 
This scheme consolidates four separate and existing schemes if we include the carry-on loan arrangements. It provides greater flexibility in administration. Here I completely differ from the Labor Party's approach and amendment of providing more control in Canberra for criterion assessment, etc. I have been closely associated with the previous schemes for some years. To me one of the greatest problems has been the buckpassing that has gone on between State administrations and Canberra. They say that really the decisions were made somewhere else. I believe that we should give as much power as possible to the State administering authorities because they have the framework closer to the farming people than has Canberra. They are also more flexible. I hope that better decisions will follow. The experience of this scheme I believe supports that contention. There is also greater flexibility with interest rates. I make the point that the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  made, that with a more general and consolidated scheme as problems develop we will not have to wait for something else to be introduced before assistance can be provided. These matters will be picked up under the umbrella of the existing scheme. 
This new scheme continues the basic features of the existing schemes. It introduces several new important provisions such as farm improvements, that is, within the existing farm, and household support. It broadens the carry-on loans eligibility to industries other than beef and dairying. I would like to comment on some of these aspects. With farm build-up in particular the importance of inter-family transfers of ownership and their eligibility within the scheme are quite critical. We have to take account of the necessity for continuing the family farm by transferring it from one generation to the other and the shortage of capital which requires the older generation to obtain cash for the farm when the younger generation does not have the cash to purchase it. In some cases the necessary eligibility has not been given to inter-family purchases of farm land within farm build-up or debt adjustment. Other industries certainly will want to be included in the carry-on loan arrangements. I give notice that at least the canning fruit industry will be on the doorstep of the Minister with a request for its inclusion in these provisions as soon as it is possible to do so. I alert the Government to the fact that I think more finance will be required for carry-on loans than was previously allocated. 
Household support is one of the major welfare innovations- it does not matter whether it is agricultural or non-agricultural- of this country. It is the closest thing that this country has to a minimum income scheme. As such it is an innovation of major importance to general social welfare policy not only in this country but also in the Western world generally. It complements the availability of unemployment benefits to farmers. I believe it does not contradict or confuse. There is a clear distinction between the 2 schemes. The same income test is used in both cases, but there is no work test for household support. People are eligible for household support only after failure to pass the viability criteria for other forms of adjustment. After 6 months it is available only as a grant to those leaving the industry. 
Household support is living assistance to someone with no future in agriculture. The unemployment benefit is subject to a work test. This assistance is for those with a short-term cash problem who still have a future in agriculture but who, because of seasonal work requirements or a critical lack of finance, make themselves available for work. We are looking at distinctly different groups of people. I believe it is essential that the unemployment benefit continues to be available for agricultural people. I believe the need for the unemployment benefit will be just as great this winter for the dairy industry and the fruit industry as it was last year. I believe the income test is unsatisfactory and unfair, but with a greater understanding by both farmers and officers from the Department of Social Security of how the system works, hopefully the scheme will be more successful next winter than last. At the same time I want to compliment the way in which senior social security officers worked to obtain a viable arrangement for the introduction of this assistance. 
In conclusion I would like to say that I believe further consideration should be given for a more comprehensive adjustment policy which includes more specific provisions for entry into agriculture and retirement from agriculture as is the case in a number of Western nations. The particular problems of immobility associated with agriculture have side effects such as reduced productivity and perhaps the entry into agriculture of a future generation to maintain a dynamic industry. I believe we should be looking at a more deliberate program as part of the adjustment policy. I believe there should be speedy implementation of this scheme so that the benefits are available from 1 January. I would like to know, if anybody is replying for the Government, whether final approval has been given by the States for the scheme to commence on 1 January. I reinforce the point that several other speakers have made. We need publicity about the provisions of the scheme so that the rural community is aware of what is available to it. I compliment the Minister and the Government for putting together what I consider to be a great improvement in adjustment measures for the agricultural sector of our society and for some very important innovations and developments in social welfare policy. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What progress has been made with the review of quarantine procedures and penalties for breaches of regulations which he announced in August 1976. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What action is being taken to protect Australians from the dangers of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs). 
Where are these manufactured or formulated in Australia. 
Can he say whether the United States of America is to ban the manufacture of PCBs within 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
Are many agricultural and horticultural industries threatened by dumped or low cost imports at the present time. 
2 ) Is the confusion of departmental responsibility, type of protection required, questionnaires and responsible officer, etc., preventing many of these industries from making use of available protection measures. 
Will he, either from within his own Department, or in conjunction with the Department of Primary Industry, Business and Consumer Affairs, and Industry and Commerce, prepare a simple document on the procedures, criteria and contact telephone numbers in those Departments on the various import protection measures available to the various agricultural and horticultural industries. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the tragic death of thousands of animals in Michigan, U.S.A. allegedly caused by the accidental mixing of a fire retardant polybrominated biphenyl (PBB) with animal feedstuff. 
Can he say whether the loss of animal life is still continuing, humans have been affected also, and the cause of the tragedy has been confirmed as PBB. 
What precautions are being taken in Australia with this chemical to ensure a similar tragedy does not occur here. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry upon notice: 
What is the attitude of the Government to the proposals of the new Director-General of the Food and Agncultural Organisation for the re-organisation of the Organisation. 
What progress has been made with the proposals. 
What is the Government's attitude to the World Food Council, the International Fund for Agricultural Development, the Consultative Group for Food Production and Investment, and the United Nations Development Program. 
What is the relationship between these bodies and the Food and Agricultural Organisation. 
Is there unnecessary overlap or duplication in the general area of international agricultural policy and development. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
What restrictions against the importation of Australian cheese are presently in force, or threatened, in those countries upon which Australia has imposed anti-foot and mouth disease restrictions on the importation of certain varieties  of  cheese. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Government made a decision on the request from the deciduous fruit canneries to defer the repayment of loans provided by the Government early this year so that fruit growers can receive further payments for fruit delivered almost 12 months ago? The Minister will be aware of the various proposals for fruit cannery rationalisation in the Goulburn Valley. Can he assure the fruit growers of the area that any Commonwealth Government support or encouragement will be directed towards the continued domination of the industry by co-operatives? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Can he say what was the surplus or deficit position of each of the State Governments' budgets and other revenue and loan accounts for 1975-76, and what is their budgeted estimate for 1976-77. 
What is the actual and percentage increase or decrease in the various Commonwealth Government grant and loan provisions to the States and what is the estimated increase in expenditure in each of the State budgets for 1976-77. 
What taxes and other charges have been increased or decreased in each of the State budgets. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
What information does his Department possess on United States Domestic International Sales Corporations engaged in agricultural exports which are competing with Australian agricultural products. 
asked the  Minister for  Health, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that imported goats' milk from New Zealand and the United States of America is available as a pharmaceutical benefit. 
If so, is the cost ofthe imported milk more expensive than the Australian product, and is the Government subsidising the imported product against the local product. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to concern at the delay in hearings of the Social Security Appeals Tribunals. 
Is it considered that a 2 month wait is too long for a person who may be deprived of a pension, his only form of income, until the appeal is heard. 
3 ) What action is being taken to reduce the delay. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Dairy Corporation requested the Commonwealth Government for the rights to produce and market a more spreadable butter. 
If so, does this refer to the patent rights jointly held by the Commonwealth and South Australian Governments for a butter/vegetable oil blend; if so, what are the intentions of the Government in this matter; if not, what other power or authority does the Commonwealth possess which is retarding the marketing of more spreadable butter. 
Is there any conflict between Australian and Swedish patents on butter/ vegetable oil blend; if so, is this preventing the early introduction of a blend; if it is causing delay, what is being done to resolve the matter. 
If the Government agrees to the request, how will the Australian Dairy Corporation and the industry initiate and control the introduction and marketing of this product. 
Which States now allow vegetable oil and butter to be blended. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
Are many agricultural and horticultural industries threatened by dumped or low cost imports at the present time. 
Is the confusion of departmental responsibility type of protection required, questionnaires and responsible officer, etc., preventing many of these industries from making use of available protection measures. 
Will the Minister, either from within his own Department, or in conjunction with the Departments of Primary Industry, Business and Consumer Affairs and Overseas Trade, prepare a simple document on the procedures, criteria and contact telephone numbers in those Departments on the various import protection measures available to the various agricultural and horticultural industries. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
How many ampoules or straws of dairy semen were sold by the various artificial breeding establishments in each of the States during each of the years 1973-74, 1974-73 and 1975-76. 
How much of this dairy semen was imported, and from what countries was it imported. 
How much was used for progeny test purposes and from which breeds. 
What is the cost of the semen to the farmer in each of the States (a) for a batch of three and (b) for single service for (i) AB proven, (ii) natural proven and (iii) progeny test. 
What degrees of subsidy do the various State Governments provide for each ampoule or straw. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education: 
1 ) What Catholic and non-Catholic non-government primary and secondary schools have (a) commenced operations or (b) been closed in each of the States in each of the school years since January 1 970. 
How many pupils attended each of these schools. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) How many dairy farmers had their herd tested in an approved scheme in each State in each of the years 1973-74, 1974-75 and 1975-76. 
What is the cost to the farmer in each State, and what is the degree of Commonwealth and State Governmment subsidy. 
What percentage of the herd test units in each State are using central rather than on farm testing. 
How many units are testing for protein, ash or total solids in addition to butterfat. 
Are any of the State schemes providing monthly computer print outs to farmers; if so, are they also provided for the progeny test organisation. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What is the estimated annual Commonwealth subsidy for each of the different categories of nursing home patients, pensioners, intensive care, etc, in each of the different types of homes, private, deficit financed, Government, etc., in each of the States during 1976. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What was the production and local consumption of butter, cheese, skim milk powder, full cream powder, condensed and evaporated milk, and casein for the 6 months to 3 1 December 1 976, and what was the return to the farmer on a per pound of fat in milk basis. 
What tonnage of these products has been exported, and what amount is unsold. 
Of that sold what is the return to the farmer on a per pound of fat in milk basis. 
What were the (a) highest, (b) lowest and (c) equalised values of each of these products on the (i) local and (ii) export markets during the period. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice; 
1 ) What was the original entitlement of staff offered to the Labor Party Opposition, and what is the present situation. 
To whom are these people attached. 
What was the staff entitlement provided by the Labor Government to the Liberal-National Country Party Opposition, and to whom were these people attached. 
What was the staff entitlement provided by (a) the last Labor Government and (b) the present Government to its Ministers, and to whom were they attached. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the intake of physiotherapy students in each of the training institutions in Australia during 1974, 1975 and 1976, and what is the projected intake for 1977 and 1978. 
Is the intake adequate to meet the projected demand for physiotherapists. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Is advice being given to medical practitioners of a taxation reduction arrangement based on the income equalisation deposit scheme. 
Is there one proposal whereby a doctor who qualifies as a primary producer for taxation purposes can deposit $50,000 in income equalisation deposits and, if he is on the maximum tax rate, save $32,500 in tax, withdraw the deposit after he retires, and pay tax at a drastically reduced rate. If so, is this possible. 
If it is possible, what steps will he take to prevent the abuse of this valuable scheme which was introduced to assist farmers with fluctuating incomes. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
What is being done by his Department to establish whether or not New Zealand has breached the NAFTA agreement on the restriction of cheddar cheese to 1220 tonnes per annum. 
In particular, is it a fact that according to State Government regulations processed cheese such as Easy Cheese is cheddar, and, if these imports are added to those of processed cheddar and cheddar, approximately 1600 tonnes of cheddar was imported in 1975-76. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What is the present sales tax position of the Visualtek and Optacon devices to assist the partially blind. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Has his Department or those studying crop and livestock insurance arrangements studied the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation (FCIC) of the United States of America. 
If so, who controls this scheme, how is it financed, and what agricultural products are covered by it. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Victorian Government made a formal request to the Commonwealth Government for financial assistance in the implementation of the $40m proposal for salinity control and drainage in Northern Victoria. 
If so, what progress has been made within the detailed investigation of the various proposals. 
When is it anticipated that the Commonwealth, the River Murray Commission and the Victorian Government will complete the necessary investigations so that the necessary decisions can be made for the drainage of the Murray Valley and the preservation of the quality of River Murray water. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the inclusion of commissions, bonuses and directors' fees distort the average weekly male earnings concept in that these are more correctly income rather than wages or salaries and, in addition, the income of the self-employed is not included in the index. 
For the latest quarterly figure for average weekly earnings, how much has the average been increased by each of the inclusions in part ( 1 ). 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Further to Question No. 1244 and the recommendation of the Industries Assistance Commission report on dairying that the Bureau of Agricultural Economics report on adjustment assistance for the processing sector by June 1 978, is there concern being expressed in the industry that the report should be completed by June 1977 because of reduced production. 
) Will the findings of the working party on this matter be made public, and made available to the Bureau of Agricultural Economics if a report is requested by the Agricultural Council. 
Is it considered that factories should be alerted to the need to co-operate in the use of existing equipment rather than install duplicate equipment in a neighbouring factory and thus reduce the likelihood of a repeat performance of the problem of redundant plant now plaguing the canned fruit industry. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
Is particular attention paid to imports of a product once notice has been given of an anti-dumping or Temporary Assistance Authority action; if not, why not; if so, what are the import figures for (a) easycheese, (b) gouda and edam cheese and (c) pack apple since the announcement that they were being investigated for possible dumping action. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to an article in the Journal of the American Medical Association, which reports a study of 4S07 men and women by researchers at the University of Michigan, indicating that blood cholesterol and fat levels were significantly higher in those who were markedly overweight, that there was no significant association between blood fat levels and consumption of fats and that weight control was more important than a low cholesterol diet in reducing blood cholesterol levels. 
If so, does this contradict current advice offered by the National Heart Foundation, and will he draw it to the atten-  i  tion of that body. 
Will his Department provide an assessment of the study. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
Further to question No. 1496 and the misleading labelling and advertising of margarine, and co-ordination between the National Health and Medical Research Council and the Trade Practices Commission, does the Commission check with the Council on such terms as 'no cholesterol' and polyunsaturated'. 
What percentage of polyunsaturated fat is required to allow the use of the term 'polyunsaturated', and what is the percentage requirement in other countries. 
) Is the use of any terms associating polyunsaturated fats or no cholesterol with health or heart disease allowed in the advertising or labelling of margarine. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
What is the present import duty position of the Visualtek and Opticon devices to assist the partially blind. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the capital cost of each of the public or community swimming pools constructed in the Australian Capital Territory. 
What percentage of the capital cost was provided by public subscription or special rate, and what percentage from the Federal Government vote and/or local rates and taxes. 
Do the entrance charges cover the labour and maintenance costs and debt repayments of these pools; if not, from what source is the deficit finance obtained. 
If there is a deficit, how much is it for each pool per year, and what percentage is it of the annual cost. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the general use of the average weekly earnings index encourage wage inflation by creating a greater over award wage expectation and pressure. 
If so, what action is being taken to reduce this expectation or use of the index. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade on 8 December 1976 the following question, upon notice: 
1 ) Can he say whether there are two new large scale vegetable processing factories at Pukekohe and Fielding in New Zealand which will add to that country's vegetable exports to Australia. 
If so, were there any discussions between Ministers or officials or other groups under NAFTA before these factories were built; if so what guarantees were given of access to the Australian market; if not, has Australia, directly or indirectly, conveyed the impression that any New Zealand rural product has a right of entry to Australia. 
Can he say what direct and indirect financial assistance, such as taxation measures, was provided by the New Zealand Government to these two factories, and what export assistance will be provided for the products. 
What procedures are available to Australian vegetable growers to protect themselves from such imports. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
With reference to the Minister's recent press release announcing the transfer of the Commonwealth's interest in Old Sydney Town Pty Ltd will the Government loan of $2.05m be repaid to the Commonwealth. If so, what are the repayment arrangements. If not, does this mean that the total Commonwealth grant for the project is actually $2. 37m, or is it more than this. 
What sum have the other shareholders and creditors advanced, and what is now their position. 
What sum has the Government given to tourist projects, and is Old Sydney Town the largest recipient. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What action has he taken to prevent the introduction of scrapie disease to Australia from New Zealand. 
Is he satisfied that the New Zealand authorities are adequately controlling the outbreak and taking the necessary precautions to ensure that it does not happen again. 
Will the arrangements for the importation of sheep and other animals from New Zealand be temporarily restricted, and will more restrictive long-term procedures be necessary. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Can he say to which countries, including overseas possessions, France is permitted to export live cattle. 
Can he also say whether any French overseas possessions refuse to allow the importation of French cattle because of quarantine or possible disease problems. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is there increasing evidence of a link between polyunsaturates and cancer. 
What is the present view of health authorities on this subject. 
Is the cancer risk increased if the vegetable oils are purchased in polyvinyl chloride containers because of vinyl chloride monomer contained in that plastic. 
What action is being taken to reduce the risk. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade on 30 November 1976 the following question, upon notice: 
1 ) What action does he intend to take to counteract the California State law which establishes an export fund from domestic sales which is used as a freight subsidy for export canned fruit sales. 
) Is this scheme similar to the Market Development Allowance Scheme of the Australian Canned Fruit Industry of several years ago which was successfully challenged by the United States as an export subsidy and contrary to the GATT Agreement. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What progress has been made in the development of a crop and livestock disaster insurance arrangement for Australia. 
What overseas schemes have been studied, and do they include the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation of the United States of America and the New Zealand Wheatgrowers Compensation Scheme; if so, what aspects of these schemes could be of value in Australia. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Will the Government consider the introduction of a price stabilisation scheme for beef based on a New Zealand type visual classification system if saleyard prices do not improve? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) At what stage in the processing of an application for registration and marketing approval of a new drug does the National Biological Standards Laboratory conduct quality control and chemistry tests on the drug. 
How long do these tests take. 
Can they be done at any other period of the evaluation procedure. 
Have there been any complaints from drug companies over the time lost with the Laboratory testing. 
I refer tonight to the critical situation facing the Australian beef industry. I believe the continuing low prices together with the weekly variation in those prices is the major problem confronting Australian agriculture and the rural policy credibility of this Government at the present time. In my electorate the 15-month old drought and shortage of irrigation water is forcing thousands of chopper dairy cows and unfinished steers onto the market. These are additional to the thousands of cattle shot in the electorate last year. Confirmation of the unfair price being paid for cattle is shown in the percentage of the final price that the farmer receives for beef. In 1970 the farmer received 6 1 per cent of the final price and in July 1976 he received 37 per cent. Two weeks ago in Adelaide the figure had dropped to 20 per cent. In my home market of Rochester the figure is in the low twenties at the present time. One must be critical of the processors and exporters for not passing on the increased prices due to devaluation and improved markets, but the major reason for the drop in the percentage going to the farmer is the high wages paid in abattoirs and right throughout the system. The processors can claim with some justification that constant strikes and threats of strikes prevents a true return to the producers. 
A fair return to the producer would be better for everyone, particularly for the Government, because it would mean increased prosperity in rural Australia and a saving of millions of dollars in reconstruction assistance. I acknowledge the support that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and this Government have given to the beef industry. I emphasise that time is running out for the beef industry and that unless prices improve the Government must intervene. I suggest that Australia should look to New Zealand for 2 possible initiatives for intervention. One is a price smoothing system similar to that introduced by New Zealand last October. We have been told that an objective classification scheme cannot be introduced for several years, but a classification is a prerequisite for a stabilisation scheme. The Minister said yesterday that the New Zealand visual type classification scheme could not be satisfactorily introduced as an interim measure because of certain differences in the New Zealand situation. The Government may have to think again about whether a visual type appraisal scheme can and should be introduced. New Zealand prices are higher and more stable than those in Australia. The present Australian price, as stated by the Minister yesterday, is 50 cents per kilogram for steers. In New Zealand the scheduled price, that is the selling price, this week is 67 cents New Zealand or, converted to Australian values on a 13 per cent differential, 59 cents Australian. That is 59 cents as against 50 cents. For manufacturing beef the price is 42 cents Australian. In New Zealand the price is 53 cents New Zealand or 47 cents Australian. If one takes into account the fact that expenses in New Zealand are about two-thirds of expenses in Australia, one can see the real advantage that the New Zealand producer has over the Australian producer. 
Furthermore, although New Zealand prices have dropped slightly they are still higher and more stable than Australian prices. For example, the New Zealand prime beef schedule did not vary for 5 weeks in December and January. In my home market of Rochester the price of an animal in the $50 price range can vary by up to $10 per week. At the present time in Rochester the chopper cow price, or manufacturing price, per kilo is not even 42 cents; it is between 35 cents and 37 cents. This is well below the price of 47 cents a kilo in New Zealand and below even New Zealand minimum prices. If that is not the desired initiative for Australia I suggest we look at direct government intervention by the Australian Meat Board supported by the Government as the New Zealand Government did for the 3 years 1974, 1975 and 1976 and as the Australian government did with wool in 1970-71 and 1971-72 by provision of a deficiency price scheme under which the government paid out to wool growers $52m in 1971-72 and $22m in 1 970-7 1 . The Government must indicate that the industry is worth preserving and must be preserved for the future of Australia and that the Government will intervene if necessary if the market will not return a true living to the beef producers of this country. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What are the latest changes to the Consumer Price Index. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) Can he say whether there is a deficit of $6m in the New Zealand Apple and Pear Marketing Board Industry Reserve Account. 
If so, has the New Zealand Government agreed to write-off the deficit; if not, can he say what is the position. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
Is it a fact that a student receiving an isolated children's allowance is debarred from a secondary education allowance, or a handicapped child 's allowance, or vice versa? 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) What is the estimated cost to the Government of the recently announced school bus fare system in Canberra for the year 1977. 
Will the new fare structure increase or decrease the Government subsidy. 
When calculating the fare structure were comparisons made with school bus fares in cities of similar size elsewhere in Australia: if so, what were the comparable charges. If not, is it considered that Canberra residents should be treated differently to other Australians. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
Who are the members of the Plague Locust Commission, and how were they appointed. 
What power does the Commission have to control outbreaks within a State and across State borders. 
What is the annual administration and operational budget of the Commission. 
Is the Commission able to obtain additional finance when there is a plague. 
What power does the Commission have to obtain the use of Defence Service personnel and equipment during a plague. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
What arrangement is there with the Plague Locust Commission and/or the State Governments for the use of Defence Service personnel and equipment during a locust plague. 
What restrictions are placed on personnel, equipment and expenditure incurred during such a plague. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
What action is his Department taking to ensure that imported wines conform to Australian standards which require a minimum of 8 per cent alcohol by volume. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 17 March 1977: 
1 ) Is there an arrangement between a special unit of the University of New England financed by the Kellogg Foundation, and the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, for a study of the fundamental issues facing agriculture. 
If so, (a) what fundamental issues will be examined, (b) how and when will the findings be published, (c) how many persons from each of the two organisations will be involved, (d) what will be the total cost and (e) what will be the percentage apportionment of the total cost. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 17 March 1977: 
1 ) What investigations has the National Training Council made, or what investigations does it intend to make, into the training requirements of agricultural industries. 
If investigations have been carried out, what deficiencies in training requirements have been found and have any recommendations been made to overcome these deficiencies. 
If no investigations have been made, or are to be made, what is the reason. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 15 March, 1977: 
1 ) How much did the recent butter promotion cost. 
Who devised and administered the promotion. 
3 ) How is the money raised for butter promotion. 
What is the result ofthe promotion. 
Has it increased consumption in the short term and is it likely to do so in the long term. If so, in what way will it help long term consumption. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 17 March 1977: 
1 ) What initiatives is he taking to spread agricultural research funds beyond the narrow limits of the short-term needs of the industry from which they are collected. 
In particular, is sufficient research being done into a range of oilseed and coarse grain crops to satisfactorily cover the various soil and climatic situations in the arable areas of Australia. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 1 7 March 1 977: 
1 ) Who decides the price for skim milk powder which Asia Dairy Industries offers for Australian powder it wishes to purchase for its reconstitution plants. 
Is it possible for that organisation to pay less than the ruling price for that type of powder and consequently increase the actual cost to the Government of underwriting that particular product. 
If Asia Dairy Industries earns a large profit because it is able to buy foreign powder at less than the world price, who benefits from this profit. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 30 March 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to Press statements that an increasing number of wheat growers are bypassing the Wheat Board and selling across State borders to private agents or mills, and that the Wheat Board is investigating these sales. 
If so, and if the orderly marketing of wheat is being threatened, has he considered the possibility of using the levy power to overcome section 92 trading. 
) Does the levy power offer an alternative and more satisfactory form of wheat stabilisation than the present complementary Federal and State legislation. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 30 March 1977: 
1 ) Was the Saudi Arabian Minister for Health recently in Australia studying remote area health services. 
If so, has he received any request from the Saudi Arabian Minister for assistance or advice for the establishment of similar services in Saudi Arabia. If so, what is his response. 
Will he give sympathetic consideration to any request he may receive. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 17 March 1977: 
1 ) What progress has been made with the compilation of model food legislation for application throughout Australia. 
What stage has been reached with the implementation of this model Act by the States and the Commonwealth. 
Has the unco-ordinated introduction of date stamp legislation by certain States upset the orderly introduction of, and contradicted the detail of, that model legislation. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Has there been any negative reaction from the State governments to last week's announcement that legislation agreed to in principle at the Australian Agricultural Council meeting in February will be introduced this session for stage 1 of the dairy industry marketing arrangements, which provides for a potential levy on market milk? Does Commonwealth legislation require complementary State legislation to make it binding on the States? Is there any relationship between stage1 legislation and the continuation of underwriting? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 22 March 1977: 
1 ) What is the estimated loss, or subsidy per employee, of (a) each State railway and (b) the Commonwealth railways for 1975-76. 
2 ) What is the estimated or actual operating profit or loss of (a) country freight, (b) city freight, (c) country passenger and ( d ) city passenger rail business in ( i ) each State and ( ii ) the Commonwealth for the latest 3 years for which figures are available. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 24 March 1977: 
Has the Australian Broadcasting Commission purchased from the Channel 9 network the 1977 EnglandAustralia cricket test series television rights for Perth, Hobart and all country television areas of Australia. 
) If so, what sum was paid by the ABC for the program rights. 
What sum was paid by the ABC as a share of satellite, relay and facilities charges. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
1 ) How many persons is a Minister entitled to employ on his personal staff. 
What are the various categories of these staff and their rates of pay. 
How, and at what rates are the salaries, travelling allowances and overtime calculated for each of these categories. 
Do all ministerial staff have similar conditions in respect of overtime and travel allowance; if not, how do they vary. 
Do any categories of ministerial staff vary in entitlements from staff of the same category employed by backbenchers. 
If so, how do they vary, and what is the reason for this variation. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the NAGPA article in a recent AMA Gazette criticising the present differential rebate system for medical services. 
If so, is it a fact that the elimination of differential rebates for those items customarily and competently performed by general practitioners would strengthen the role of the general practitioner, save taxpayers' money and be more in line with overseas practice. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 30 March 1977: 
1 ) How many young people are enrolled in farm apprenticeship schemes, and in which States are they enrolled. 
How will farm apprentices benefit from the new craft and pre-apprenticeship schemes. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
1 ) Does the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission possess the power to acquire compulsorily a property or to force a person wishing to sell to cancel a recent sale so that the Commission can purchase it. 
If so, what criteria are used by the Commission for these purchases. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
1 ) Does the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission differentiate between requests by Aboriginal communities for land for (a) recreational, social and cultural purposes and (b) agriculture. 
If so, does this influence the size and type of land purchased by the Commission. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
1 ) If land purchased by the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission is for agriculture, does the Commission check that the persons for whom the land is purchased are genuinely anxious to farm the property and have shown by their previous employment that they are suited physically, psychologically and technically for farming. 
What evaluation is made before purchase that the property is, or has the potential to be, a commercially viable farm. 
Is the advice of local agricultural experts obtained. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
Is the request for land by the Echuca Aboriginal Cooperative primarily for land for social, recreational or cultural purposes, or tor agricultural purposes. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
1 ) Was  Baroona  the only property considered by the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission for the Echuca Aboriginal Co-operative. 
If so, is this the usual practice. 
If not, what was the size, price and suitability for either agricultural or other purposes of the other properties. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 28 April 1977: 
1 ) What power does the Commonwealth Government have and /or exercise to control barley exports. 
What powers do the various State Barley Boards have over barley exports. 
Has his attention been drawn to industry complaints that section 92 trading and lack of export price and quality controls is harming the barley industry. 
if so, what action is being taken to overcome this problem. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 5 May 1977: 
How much has the Government contributed, or is it estimated will be contributed, to the dairy industry underwriting arrangement for the periods (a) to 30 June 1976, (b) 1 July 1976 to 31 December 1976 and (c) 1 January 1977 to June 1977. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. He will be aware that the dairy industry is anxiously awaiting a 
Government decision on the underwriting of manufactured dairy products for the new season commencing 1 July. I ask: Has a decision been made and, if so, what is the level or what are the levels and what products are included? 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
How many persons have been placed with private employers under the Youth Employment Training Scheme, in each Commonwealth Employment Service district in Victoria, to the end of October 1976. in each of the following categories: (a) local government, (b) retail, (c) manufacturing, (d) professional, (e) agriculture and (f) service industries. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a statement made on behalf of the Australian Optometrical Association that eyetesting programs in schools are completely inadequate. 
If so, what is being done to improve the quality and frequency of school sight and hearing testing throughout Australia. 
Have school health programs been discussed at Health Ministers ' Conferences. 
Have any attempts been made to establish uniform standards. 
Is it considered that a more adequate school health program would be possibly the best cost/benefit outlay on preventive health. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
What information can he provide to either substantiate or demolish the allegations that medical practitioners 'incomes have increased dramatically since the introduction of Medibank. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 27 April 1 977: 
What is the location, cost and completion date of each public work which has been commenced or approved, or which has been completed, in the Electoral Division of Murray since 1 April 1971: 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 5 May 1 977: 
1 ) Can he say what countries have a medical rebate system for medical services similar to the Australian national health insurance arrangement. 
If so, which of these provide a specialist rebate higher than the general practitioner rebate when a service is approved for either a general practitioner or specialist to perform. 
3 ) Does any other country have a similar provision to the $5 gap in the Australian health insurance arrangements. 
Do any have a percentage of common fee rebate for specialist services. 
-Congratulations to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  on the rapid progress he has made to stabilise the Australian dairy industry since the Liberal and National Country parties were returned to power 18 months ago. I emphasise rapid in view of the recent years of indecision within the industry about the need to adjust to the real market situation following final exclusion from the British market, the threat to domestic orderly marketing following the Labor Government's abolition of the bounty and the reliance on a voluntary equalisation scheme without a bounty incentive. There was also the inappropriateness of a private company administering the financial mechanism of equalisation. There is also the changing dairy products consumption pattern domestically with the removal of margarine quotas, once again by the Labor Government, and internationally with the loss of the British bulk butter and cheese markets. Furthermore, when we returned to office the export manufacturing sector of the industry faced chaos due to the collapse of the international skim milk powder market and the failure of the Labor Government to agree to an industry request several months earlier to support the industry by underwriting a minimum equalised price. 
The Government, at the urging of the Minister for Primary Industry and a number of Government backbenchers, moved quickly to provide underwriting at approximately 50c per lb fat in whole milk in March last year and thus prevented the breakdown of orderly marketing and farmer and factory bankruptcy. Since then underwriting has been progressively increased to 60c and now approximately 60c to 65c per lb. The Minister already has announced continuation of the 60c to 65c per lb level of underwriting for the 1977-78 season- an announcement made in good time to allow the industry administrators and producers to plan for the new season. I have only one contradictory comment on the new underwriting; that is, that full cream powder should be included as it will be included in the new equalisation arrangements for 1977-78. 
The first report of the Industries Assistance Commission in 1975 recommended no specific action on restructuring the dairy industry and handed the matter over to the industry. The industry organisations were unable to resolve the issues confronting the industry; so the Minister for Primary Industry moved quickly once again to refer the matter back to the IAC, but this time he stipulated a time limit and required the IAC to make specific recommendations. The IAC reported in September 1976. Following a series of Australian Agricultural Council meetings the first stage of a 3-stage proposal is before the Parliament today. It is a proposal that was necessarily amended after consultation with the industry, the States, and Government backbenchers. In the meantime the continuation of underwriting has kept the industry stable and in a reasonable if not prosperous state. The underwriting has cost the Commonwealth Government approximately $10m since its inception last year and it could cost the Commonwealth Government far more in the coming year. 
Stage I really only makes the present voluntary equalisation arrangements for manufactured dairy products statutory or compulsory by the imposition of a levy. That is a simple but important and fundamental breakthrough for the orderly marketing of dairy products. In fact, the use of the levy is of tremendous importance to primary industry stabilisation generally. Those who challenge it will do so to the peril of the orderly or stable marketing of all primary products in this country. Stage I is of greater value to the 2 southern export States- Victoria and Tasmania- and to a lesser extent to South Australia than it is to the deficit States of Western Australia, Queensland and New South Wales because it prevents any of the deficit States' factories from withdrawing from the equalisation scheme and just selling their product on the higher priced local market. The corollary or  quid pro quo  of this compulsory equalisation of manufactured products is the compulsory or orderly marketing, if you like, or continued stability of market milk sales through the imposition of the market milk levy, which will be applied if and only if the market milk sector is threatened by imminent breakdown. 
The other aspects of the legislation include a Reserve Bank or government guaranteed advance payment procedure to overcome a possible short term liquidity problem with the product levy for both the factory and the farmer. Secondly, the equalisation function will be assumed by the Australian Dairy Corporation, which is in line with the control by the Australian Wool Corporation and the Australian Wheat Board of the financial mechanisms or arrangements of those industries. A dairy industry advisory committee will be established with which the Australian Dairy Corporation will be required to consult to allow a greater accountability by the Corporation to the various sectors of the industry. I suggest to the dairy industry that once the new arrangement is working satisfactorily it should look at the direct election and accountability mechanisms in the consultative committees which will be there to support the new Meat and Live-stock Corporation; in other words, a further degree of accountability back to the 2 major sectors of the dairy industry- the producers and the manufacturers. Unfortunately, condensery products will not be included until Stage II. It is unfortunate because all major products and all major sectors of the dairy industry should be included. 
The contradictory criticism coming from the various States over the Stage I proposals and the market milk levy indicates that the Minister has trodden a fairly neutral and constructive path with this legislation. Those who cry that a lack of justice has been shown to the Victorian dairy farmers- I am a Victorian dairy farmer- because of the market milk levy overlook the fact that the States jealously retain their power over intrastate milk, the Victorian Government no less than the others. Fortunately the States are at last beginning to equalise their market milk arrangements; in some cases, such as in New South Wales, it is done without reasonable compensation and in others, such as in Victoria, it is done with over generous compensation and over too long a period. It is hypocritical for a Victorian Minister to claim that lack of justice has been shown because the Victorian dairy farmers theoretically cannot take on the Sydney milk market when the same Victorian farmers will be prevented for 10 years by that same Minister from complete access to the Melbourne market and to cry about UHT milk- ultra-high treatment milk- being included in the levy if and only if it is found to be disrupting orderly marketing when Victorian UHT milk has been effectively barred from the Melbourne market for many years. However, it has to be recognised that there is a need for an annual review of the interstate sales of liquid milk, along with State aggregate entitlements, when Stage II is introduced. 
Now that Stage I is here the real debate is under way on Stage II. It involves a far more fundamental restructuring of the industry. The issues still to be resolved include the size of the national aggregate entitlement, interpool transfers, market signals and the inability of factories and their suppliers locked into a product range necessarily to respond to the ebbs and flows of the market, reviews of entitlement and transferability, and the inclusion or exclusion of market milk in the entitlement. 
As I stated earlier, I agree with the Minister's decision to stabilise market milk at least until such time as the new industry arrangements are in operation and the States have equalised thenown market milk arrangements. However, that raises the important question of whether, if the additional financial return for market milk is not to be equalised, then, as a position of minimum justice for southern dairy farmers the quantity of that milk should be included in the national entitlement; that is, that the quantity as distinct from its value should be included or, to put it another way, the butterfat equivalent of market milk produced in a State should be included in the State's entitlement and the State should then be left to sort out how it will handle the market milk in the provision of an individual farmer's entitlements. 
The percentage of a State 's production that is used for market milk varies from State to State. According to the first IAC report, in 1973-74 it was 56 per cent in New South Wales; 12 per cent in Victoria; 40 per cent in Queensland; 35 per cent in South Australia; 48 per cent in Western Australia; and 20 per cent in Tasmania. The percentages now used for market milk would be higher. If the butterfat equivalent of that market milk used in a State is not included the farmers in the deficit States will not only have their equal share of the national aggregate entitlement but an even better entitlement, that is, their market milk entitlement. That will be the real cream, if you like, on top of the wholemilk or the national aggregate entitlement and a very small or nonexistent non-preferred percentage, or skim milk. In the export States of Tasmania and Victoria there will be very little cream because we are looking at a percentage of 12 in relation to Victoria for market milk to a percentage of 56 in relation to New South Wales. There will be the same amount of wholemilk and there will be a hell of a lot of skim milk. 
I have made certain calculations that are based on the production by 2 farmers of 30 000 lb of butterfat in wholemilk in the States of New South Wales and Victoria. I have based these calculations on the New South Wales farmer having an equalised return of 56 per cent of his production at the current Sydney market price for milk and on the Victorian farmer having a 12 per cent return at the current Melbourne price. I have made certain guesstimates concerning production in the coming year and concerning the relativities between exports and home consumption and Stage II percentage of preferred and non-preferred entitlement. The example I have used is probably an extreme case now but in 2 or 3 years it will not be extreme. I estimate that without the inclusion of the butterfat equivalent of the New South Wales dairy farmer's market milk entitlement in the national aggregate entitlement his income on that 30 000 lb of butterfat would be approximately $40,500. The income of the Victoria'n dairy farmer producing the same amount of milk would be approximately $23,500, which means a gap of $17,000 between the gross returns of the New South Wales dairy farmer and the Victorian dairy farmer producing the same amount of milk. 
If the butterfat equivalent of the market milk entitlement is included in the national aggregate entitlement and therefore in the State entitlement, there is still a tremendous difference between the New South Wales and the Victorian dairy farmer. But this difference is reduced considerably. My calculations are that the gross income of the New South Wales dairy farmer comes back to $33,000 and the Victorian dairy farmer's gross income increases to $23,000. There is an approximate $10,000 difference still in favour of the New South Wales dairy farmer. No one could say that by including the butterfat equivalent or the quantity of market milk entitlement as distinct from the value we are by any means equalising the situation. I intend to send these calculations to the Minister for Primary Industry so that the officers in his Department can tell me how far wrong I am. But I would be surprised if the overall result is very different from what I have indicated. 
I believe that the Minister should allow adequate time for debate on and assessment of this most fundamental restructuring of the dairy industry. I refer here to the Stage II proposals. The Minister should be prepared to go against the majority of the States if they are not prepared to concede the justice of the argument that I have just put on the inclusion of the butterfat equivalent of the market milk entitlement in the national aggregate entitlement, just as that same Minister decided against the State with the majority of production when he introduced the market milk levy. I support this legislation. I believe that it is the most important and fundamental dairying industry legislation to be introduced into this House for many years. I congratulate the Minister on treading a steady and constructive path through the minefield that he has had to walk so far and I wish him well for the future. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 5 May 1977: 
1 ) Is it a fact that if there is no capital appropriation for the Australian National Animal Health Laboratory (ANAHL) in 1977-78, then the design team employed will have to disband. 
If so, what is the estimated minimum allocation required for 1977-78 to commence the project and retain the team. 
What is the estimated total cost and year of completion if the work commences during 1 977-78. 
What will be the most important function of the laboratory. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 5 May 1977: 
Did the last Agricultural Council meeting held in Launceston, Tasmania, favour the transfer of plant and animal quarantine from the Department of Health to the Bureau of Animal Health, within the Department of Primary Industry. 
If so, what other agricultural or veterinary organisations are also in favour of the transfer. 
3 ) Do they include the Australian Veterinary Association, the Animal Health Committee of the Standing Committee on Agriculture, the Standing Committee itself, and all the State Government Departments of Agriculture. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 30 March 1977: 
1 ) Has he received complaints that the deficit financed  nursinghomesarecatering for  the well-to-do rather than the poorer members of the community; if so, will he check the accuracy of this allegation. 
Should priority be given to the poorer members of the community for admission to the deficit financed nursing homes. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 4 May 1977: 
What precautions are being taken to prevent the introduction into Australia of Aujeszky's disease in pigs being imported from New Zealand. 
In what way have quarantine procedures been altered since the discovery of the disease in New Zealand 12 months ago. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 5 May 1977: 
1  ) What has been the total expenditure by the Commonwealth and various State Governments in each of the States on the School Dental Scheme since its inception. 
Of these sums how much has been spent on capital works, training costs and delivery services in each of the States, and how much of each sum has been spent in provincial or rural areas. 
How many students  in  each State have been checked by the service, and, of these, how many are provincial and rural. 
What  is  the relationship between the training of dental therapists and technical education programs and policies. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice, on 17 March 1977: 
1 ) Is his Department closely monitoring various moves in the European Economic Community which may allow large amounts of stockpiled butter to be exported at a price several hundred dollars below the present world price because of a Common Agricultural Policy subsidy of over $2,000 per tonne. 
If so, what is being done to ensure that this latest EEC dairy export policy does not reduce the export price of Australian butter. 
What sales have been made of EEC butter at this heavily subsidised price of about $850 per tonne. 
What is the present position of this policy in the EEC. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 5 May 1977: 
With reference to his answer to question No. 463  (Hansard,  3 May 1977, page 1502), is his failure to provide the detail requested in the question concerning the separation of country and city freight profits or losses of the State and Commonwealth railways because of the fact that the State authorities will not provide the information. 
If so, can his Department provide the information from its own resources. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 5 May 1977: 
1 ) Who is presently the First Assistant Director-General in charge of quarantine, and who are the Assistant DirectorGenerals in charge of human, plant and animal quarantine. 
How long has each held his position, and what medical and veterinary qualifications does each have (with the exception of the Assistant Director-General of plant quarantine). 
What is the establishment of each of the branches, and in the area of animal quarantine, how many are veterinarians. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 17 March 1977: 
Will he arrange for future issues of Production Summary No. 41, vegetable oils, margarine and other edible processed fats, to include a separate column for palm oil: if not. why not. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
What interest payments have been made by the various primary industries which receive their advance payment finance from the Rural Credits section of the Reserve Bank in each of the last 3 calendar years. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 28 April 1977: 
Which primary industry co-operatives and/or statutory marketing boards receive advances from the Rural Credits Section of the Reserve Bank to allow initial or first advance payments to farmers. 
What sum has been advanced to each of them in each of the last 3 financial years. 
What percentage of the estimated final price did the first advance or interim payment constitute. 
With which industries is there an arrangement that the Reserve Bank advance will allow a certain percentage of the final price to be paid, and what is that percentage. 
What is the generally agreed payment after delivery time scale with each of these industries. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
How many Commonwealth public servants in each level of each division in each department were employed on (a) 1 January 1976 and (b) 1 January 1977. 
How many of these in each category travelled overseas in 1976 at the expense of the Commonwealth, and what was the cost of air travel and accommodation. 
How many are now entitled to first class overseas travel, and how many fewer is this figure than prior to the recent Public Service Board decision on overseas air travel. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 17 March 1977: 
1 ) Is a preterm clinic to be established in Canberra. 
If so, (a) what is its purpose, (b) who will control it and (c) what financial assistance has the Government agreed to provide for its establishment, running costs and patients using its services. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 30 March 1977: 
Has he received complaints that, because deficit financed nursing homes are financially protected  from the  effect of increased wages, they have agreed to over-generous wage and salary increases for their staff. 
If so, what is being done to protect taxpayers' funds from unnecessarily subsidising these homes. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
1 ) What sum has been paid to medical practitioners from the medical benefits schedule for the termination of pregnancy in each of the last three years. 
What are the various benefit payments for termination and associated services. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 5 May 1977: 
How many doctors are employed at the Bellerive Health Centre in Tasmania. 
How many (a) are salaried and (b) receive fee for service. 
3 ) What is the total salary bill and how many patients did these salaried doctors see in the last six months period for which figures are available. 
Are salaried doctors allowed to charge fees and collect medical rebates. 
What after hours and weekend service is provided, by whom is it provided, how is it financed, and are there special salary rates applicable. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 5 May 1977: 
1 ) Why are specialist referral forms or vouchers required to be provided by general l practitioners 
How many of these forms are processed each year by his Department, and how many persons are employed to do this processing. 
What checks are made to ensure that the forms are in order. 
How many prosecutions, or 'please explain' queries, were initiated in the latest year for which figures are available. 
5 ) Are there other ways of achieving the same result. 
Can he say whether any other countries require a similar specialist referral form. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice, on 30 May 1977: 
1 ) What procedures are adopted by his Department to determine whether or not an industry will be affected by the inclusion of a commodity in Schedule A of NAFTA. 
Is the industry organisation always contacted; if not, why not. 
If so, was the Australian Mushroom Growers' Association contacted prior to New Zealand being notified that there were no Australian objections to fresh mushrooms being included in Schedule A; if not, why not. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 24 March 1977: 
) What applications have been lodged for transfers of equity, either in whole or in pan, of Australian registered or owned companies to foreign interests since1 January1976. 
What percentage of Australian equity did these foreign interests have before the application, and for those successful, what is now the percentage. 
In what countries were each of the companies, either seeking or successful with their application, registered. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 15 March 1 977: 
1 ) What health centres in what States and Territories provide a free medical service, and what is the cost to the Commonwealth Government. 
Are all of these centres in agreed medical practitioner deficit areas and administered in accordance with Government policy. 
What is the criteria used by the Government in the provision of free medical services. 
-Employees as well as employers have rights and responsibilities. Some employees have, or should have, a greater responsibility because of the critical nature of their work to the community and/or the form of their employment which gives them greater job security or other advantages. Public servants and employees of statutory authorities have both those advantages. They are supposed to be servants of the public. In return they have security of employment and other work advantages that are not available to others in the community. They are the envy of thousands and thousands of Australians who are without that security at present. 
The various postal disputes which have brought this matter to a head highlight the selfish rights only' approach of these postal workers. They have no vision of responsibility to the community. The actions of spokesmen for the Labor Party today indicate that they also are concerned only for the selfish rights of these people. Members of the Labor Party, in taking the stance that they have taken, have forgotten their responsibility to the general community in Australia. I am sure that the Australian community will not forget this stance taken by the Labor Party today, because it shows complete disregard for the community of interest in this country. These unionists have shown disregard not only for this community of interest but also for their fellow unionists in the postal service as well as in other industries and Australians generally who suffer because of their actions. We now have an intolerable situation. 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  spoke about the contempt for Parliament, as he saw it, illustrated by the way this legislation was introduced. I suggest to him that the more significant issue at present is the contempt for Australia and Australians shown by these various union people. I want to refresh the memories of honourable members about a few of the recent postal disputes. I will start by referring to disputes in Sydney. In Sydney in October last year mail sorters imposed a ban for 8 days. They defied the Australian Postal and Telecommunications Union order to lift the ban. In Sydney in November 1976 postal employees refused to deliver mail to the John Fairfax newspaper group. In Sydney in February this year New South Wales postmen refused to work during a staff review. 
Now we have the current dispute at Redfern, culminating today, as I understand it, in the rejection by the Redfern workers of the 7-day stand-off' or 'cooling down' period which was recommended to them. That recommendation was rejected after APTU members in Melbourne and Hobart had voted in favour of this reasonable approach. So much for the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and his talk about reason, negotiation and getting down to talks. That has been going on for a very long time. If only one party or one side is prepared to be reasonable, then there comes a time when that side- meaning in this instance the Government, acting through the Postal Commission- if it has any guts in carrying out its responsibility to the people of Australia, has to say: 'Enough'. 
I remind honourable members that the Government members communications committee contacted the workers at Redfern about 12 months ago after visiting the exchange and said that it would be very pleased to discuss their problems with them. That committee has had no response to that communication. So much for the unity of purpose about which the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith was talking. What is the unity of purpose about which he talks when he says that the Adelaide people are with the Redfern people, when the Melbourne and Hoban workers took exactly the opposite stance? So much for the honourable member for KingsfordSmith and his way of solving the problems. If we want to look a little beyond the situation at Redfern,' let us consider the situation in South Australia. In that State in April 1977 there was an overtime ban by postmen and a work to rule campaign. In Melbourne during June, July and August there was a series of disruptive tactics including walk-outs, restrictions by van drivers and 4-day fortnightly strikes. There was the whole gamut of industrial action to disrupt the mail services of this nation. 
What has happened to the proud claim that the mail must go through? I believe that the Post Office is being hypocritical in accepting money from the public for stamps for the delivery of mail when it cannot guarantee that delivery. This is a completely hypocritical situation which the Government of this nation cannot tolerate in the case of an essential service. I remind honourable members that it is not just the postal workers who are acting in this way, just in case the Opposition thinks that they are being picked upon. What about some of the other people who have forgotten their responsibility to the community in the pursuit of their selfish ends? Recently Commonwealth meat inspectors were on strike and there was other industrial action in New South Wales and Queensland. There was a range of activities on the part of meat inspectors in Queensland which added to the problems already there. 
There are other examples. Members of the Labor Party have mentioned the air traffic controllers. Remember their action of a few months ago and their willingness to bring this country to a halt for their selfish ends. They appealed to air traffic controllers in other countries to go out on strike in sympathy with them. They sought the support of air traffic controllers in the United States and, according to my understanding, the United States controllers said: 'We sympathise with you, but we cannot strike. We are considered to be an essential security industry in this country, a service acting in the national interest, and therefore we cannot strike'. It would be interesting to compare the rights and responsibilities, as seen by the United States postmen and postal workers, with the attitude of some of the postal workers in Australia at present. 
Returning to the air traffic controllers strike, I ask: Who solved that strike? It was not solved by Bob Hawke. The firm resolve of this Government, in saying that air communications with Tasmania would be continued by means of the use of Royal Australian Air Force aircraft, solved that strike.  Mr Hawke,  in a panic move to prevent the community reaction which would follow continuation of the air traffic situation, tried to do his best to calm down the people concerned and to see that the inevitable community reaction would not come about, but it was the firm resolve of this Government that ended that air traffic controllers dispute. 
-On the one hand the Opposition is saying that  Mr Hawke  solved that dispute whilst on the other hand it is saying that he has nothing to do with that industry. The Opposition should make up its mind. In presenting this legislation the Government has acted moderately on behalf of the community of interest. The confrontation has come from the other side, particularly the postal people. The action of the Redfern postal workers today confirms this confrontation approach- the demand by them for selfish rights over and above the responsibility they have to the community and to the community of interest. 
I want to remind people of the moderate approach being taken by this Government by reading a few paragraphs from the second reading speech made by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  He said that the purpose of this Bill was to: 
. suspend from duty, or in appropriate circumstances dismiss, government employees who take industrial action which disrupts the provision of services to the Australian community . . . 
What is the difference between that and what is required of every other Australian worker? There is no difference. He also said that its purpose was to:   . . stand down, without pay, government employees who cannot be usefully employed as a result of industrial action taken by fellow government employees or by workers in private industry, or who are engaged on functions the performance of which is seriously disrupted. 
That is quite sensible and reasonable. In the final paragraph of his speech the Minister said: 
Finally, let me emphasise that it would be the Government's hope that it will not be necessary to use this legislation and it is the Government's intention that this Bill will be passed by the Parliament but will not be proclaimed to operate unless circumstances so dictate. 
I repeat:   . . this Bill will be passed by the Parliament but will not be proclaimed to operate unless circumstances so dictate. 
So the matter rests fairly and squarely with these unionists and their attitude to their responsibilities. I shall finish the quotation I was reading. The Minister went on to say: 
Certainly it recognises that the very great majority of government employees and their unions have acted, and do act, responsibly. Indeed the legislation would not have been necessary but for the actions of a minority. 
I am convinced that the great majority of Australians want this Government to take reasonable but firm action and not to back off when confrontation comes from the other side. I believe that this legislation does just that. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
1 ) What is the (a) size, (b) price, (c) type and (d) State location of the various properties purchased by the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission since its inception. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 30 May 1977: 
1 ) What issues still have to be resolved before Stage II of the national dairy plan can be implemented. 
When is it anticipated that these issues will be settled. 
What Federal and/or State legislation will be required. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1977: 
1 ) What (a) quantity, (b) value and (c) sizes of (i) complete and (ii) the various parts of ball bearings, have been imported by which companies during each year from 1 97 1 to 1 976 and during the period 1 January to 3 1 March 1 977. 
What is the tariff for each category of bearing in each of the sizes. 
What is the estimated import percentage to local production or total supplies of ball bearings for each of the years and the period referred to in part ( 1 ). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 30 May 1977: 
1 ) What procedures are adopted by the Department of Industry and Commerce to determine whether or not an industry will be affected by the inclusion of a commodity in Schedule A of NAFTA. 
Is the industry organisation always contacted; if not, why not. 
If so, was the Australian Mushroom Growers' Association contacted prior to New Zealand being notified that there were no Australian objections to fresh mushrooms being included in Schedlue A; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 30 May 1977: 
1 ) How many Air Traffic Controllers are employed and at which Australian airports. 
What annual salaries are received by controllers at each of these airports and how many are in receipt of each salary. 
What are the details of hours of work, overtime, annual holidays, long service leave, superannuation, free transport, and other terms of employment. 
How do the salaries, terms of employment, right to strike or to be sacked compare with their counterparts in the United States of America and the United Kingdom. 
My question is directed to the Minister for National Resources who will be aware of the significant cost increases which the new fuel excise and crude oil prices will create for country business people and farmers. Does the Minister consider it is unjust for country people so to suffer no matter how logical and necessary the new policy is? Does the Minister believe that the new pricing arrangement provides scope for a fuel price equalisation scheme? Can he assure country people that such a scheme is being considered? 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 30 May 1977: 
What procedures are adopted by his Department to determine whether or not an industry will be affected by the inclusion of a commodity in Schedule A of NAFTA. 
Is the industry organisation always contacted; if not, why not? 
If so, was the Australian Mushroom Growers Association contacted prior to New Zealand being notified that there were no Australian objections to fresh mushrooms being included in Schedule A; if not, why not? 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1977: 
How were the successful applicants chosen for the recently announced NEAT meat inspectors course in Melbourne. 
Is it a fact that no country people were given the opportunity to apply because details of the course were not made public, until after the positions were filled; if so, why. 
When unemployment is higher in country areas, and some of this unemployment is due to industrial trouble at abattoirs, would it be preferable to give first priority to country people. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 31 May 1977: 
Which companies, at which factories in Australia, claim to be complete manufacturers of ball bearings? 
Which companies claim to be fabricators and which are importers? 
How many persons are estimated to be employed at each of these factories and, of these, how many are specialists brought in from the company's home country? 
-The provisions of the two Bills fulfil the stated aims of the Government in regard to this area of health and welfare. Briefly, as I see them, those aims are: For the Government to assist those in need; for those who are able to provide for themselves to do so through private insurance; to encourage accountability for health services by the payment of a patient moiety where this is both appropriate and equitable; and to encourage the private sector in health care delivery thus maintaining a genuine freedom of choice for patients. I commend the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  for the pragmatic and beneficial development of these aims in the health area generally. The development of the Government's policy provides several additional benefits. As I see them they are: Firstly, it allows a concentration of the limited resources available to any government in a democratic society on those in genuine need; secondly, it allows the average citizen greater ability to spend his money in the way in which he decides rather than have it taken away from him through increased taxation to pay for arrangements created by government and controlled by government; thirdly, it produces greater efficiency and accountability in the health care sector because of the recognition that the rate of increase in Government expenditure and in the percentage of gross national product expended on health cannot continue at its present rate and the recognition that there must be inefficiencies in our health care delivery due to this rapid expansion. 
I now want to refer to the amendments to the National Health Act which implement the recommendation of the Holmes inquiry in regard to nursing homes. The legislation provides greater security for the high percentage of chronically ill patients who are admitted to private or non-government nursing homes. Automatically, once a year, benefit rates will be adjusted following an annual review of nursing home fees so that the benefit together with the statutory patient contribution will cover the fees charged to 70 per cent of patients in a State. Seventy per cent is the traditional percentage, a figure which has been rarely maintained over the last four years since the Labor Government introduced inflation. Private nursing homes in a particular State could be financially disadvantaged if their fees are fixed for the year at review time and a State wages determination for nurses and other staff shortly afterwards grants a substantial salary increase. If nursing homes were allowed to increase their fees following such a salary increase the patients would suffer. I hope that the annual review can be arranged to follow rather than precede major annual wage adjustments in each State and I recommend to the Minister that he consider that proposition. 
The Bill doubles what was the intensive care benefit- it will soon be known as the extensive care benefit- from $3 per day to $6 per day. This is the first increase in this benefit since its introduction by a previous Liberal-Country Party government in 1969. There is also a safeguard for private nursing home proprietors and patients in the provisions relating to the payment of the benefit and membership of a health fund. In addition there is a provision for the payment of the benefit for insured patients in deficit financed homes. 
I conclude my remarks by raising three issues. The first is the campaign by some private health funds against the legislation. This campaign puzzles me because I would have thought that this encouragement of private health insurance, this protection for patients in private nursing homes and, indirectly, for private nursing homes themselves would have received the approval of these health funds. I know that there is a fear that increased premiums will force people out of the private funds and into Medibank public. However, we should not forget the commitment of the Government to a strong private health care sector. The second issue concerns accountability and efficiency in the deficit financed nursing homes. These homes have to provide budgets for departmental approval but the open-ended nature of the arrangement worries me. The third issue is the disparity in benefits payable by the Federal Government after 1 October to uninspired patients in these homes. The basic benefit will be as low as $1 1.75 per day in Western Australia and as high as $19.65 per day in Victoria. The variations are not new. They are not caused by this legislation, but they continue. I understand the variations are due to State regulations and, as such, I believe the Commonwealth should not indefinitely continue to pay the full amount. It should move towards a basic common benefit and allow the States to pay the difference or pay an increasing part of that difference. I hope the Bailey Task Force has considered this matter. I support the legislation and congratulate the Minister for Health on its introduction. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 5 May 1977: 
1 ) What has been the total expenditure by the Commonwealth and various State governments in each of the States on the School Dental Scheme since its inception. 
Of these sums how much has been spent on capital works, training costs and delivery services in each or the States, and how much of each sum has been spent in provincial or rural areas. 
How many students in each State have been checked by the service, and of these, how many are provincial and rural. 
What is the relationship between the training of dental therapists and technical education programs and policies. 
-Professor Don Aitkin, in his weekly article in the  National Times  immediately after the presentation of the Budget, made a significant assessment of the role this Federal Government sees for itself in Australia today, and of its judgment of how the electorate sees government. I quote from that article: 
For the past 30 years, since the wool boom of the late 1940s, in fact, there has been little change in income tax rates. On the whole, the rates stayed as they were, incomes rose because of economic growth and mild inflation, and governments each year had more money to spend. 
Since there was persistent public demand for government spending, and governments which spent seemed to stay in office, governments of all political persuasions were happy to spend this useful increment. 
Well, things have changed. Hear our Treasurer 'Australians should be able to determine to a greater extent how they spend their incomes. "That is, I take it, governments are not all-wise, and citizens may have a better idea of what they would wish from some of their marginal dollars than has the Government. 
Interestingly, notions like these are gaining attention overseas too, and they follow in the wake of a certain disillusion with the potential of government that seems to have hit Western democracies in the last few years. 
In fact, the Government is simply less certain about what ought to be done, and less sure about how to do it On the whole this seems to me to be a good thing, if only because immodest, pretentious governments are both a pain in the neck and fearful wasters of money. (I should make clear that in my view the coalition governments of the late 1960s and early 1970s fit this description as well as the Whitlam Government which followed them). 
But reducing government expenditure and holding down public service expansionism is only part of the necessary change of heart What has to accompany it, if the result is to be other Scroogeism, is a re-assessment of priorities. 
What is the principal task of the Federal Government? What sorts of goals are possible? 
We are in a new era, and its key notes are consolidation and restructuring. Growth, boundless growth, and the exuberant confidence that went with it, is past. Governments are more cautious and more pessimistic. You sort your problems out, they are saying, don't expect too much of us. And here's some of your money back. From this perspective, the Whitlam Government was the last of the optimistic governments, the last of the expansionists. 
I believe that this debate reflects that assessment. Speakers from both sides of the House have far lower expenditure horizons and belief in the capability of government to solve all the problems of our society than has been the case in any of the previous six Budgets in my parliamentary career. The possible exception to this was the speech of the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  who has just spoken. But what is of note is that even he, whilst criticising the expenditure cuts that might have been made, has not said that a Labor Government would reintroduce the measures which have been cut. He has not said that a Labor government would increase government expenditure massively. I think that has been the general point of many Opposition speakers: They have been critical but they have not said what a Labor government would do. 
Most importantly, the message is that people do not want a return to the big spending, inflation creating, taxation increasing, big brother, socialist style of government that Australia so decisively rejected in 1975. This changed concept of government confirms this Government's view that inflation is our No. 1 enemy and must be beaten before the economy and employment can return to normal levels. The measures taken already by the Government, now reinforced by the reduced Budget deficit, indicate that the Government is succeeding. The inflation rate is falling and because of it we are now seeing the first reduction in interest rates for several years. 
This Budget contains many worthwhile benefits and initiatives, introduced in spite of the reduced deficit and in spite of the knockers who predicted cuts in such things as education, the removal of the $16 per day private hospital bed subsidy, a reduction in social security benefits and so on. The most important benefit contained in the Budget is the genuine and most significant reduction m personal income tax since Federation. If honourable members do not believe me, they should just remember what Professor Aitkin said. This benefit will accrue on top of the taxation indexation benefits of last year and again this year. All taxpayers will gain. Many people will not pay tax at all because the starting point for paying tax for a single person will rise by almost $1,000 to $3,750. 
Two groups in particular will benefit. The first of these is the average wage earner. Because the marginal tax rate has effectively been abolished, the disincentive to work harder through overtime or by some other means or to accept a more responsible and more highly paid job is no longer present. The second group is that of the farmer. The new income averaging system for farmers not only removes the $50m extra tax which the Hayden Budget imposed on farmers but it also aids them at all income levels. The $16,000 ceiling is abolished. Farmers on falling incomes over the five-year period will no longer pay additional tax. Low income no-tax years will be more effectively incorporated. The farmer will be able to opt in and out of income averaging at will. 
I am pleased that, in spite of the restriction on government expenditure, net cash outlays for primary industry have increased by $82m on last year's figure. This figure will increase because of the open-ended nature of many of the rural policy commitments. The nitrogenous fertiliser bounty and the fresh apple and pear stabilisation scheme will continue to receive the present level of government assistance, contrary to the Industries Assistance Commission recommendation to phase them out. They will cost the Government this year approximately $17m. A final allocation of $1.3m for the tree-pull scheme is also contained in the Budget. 
An increased amount of $47m has been made available for the broadened rural adjustment scheme, which now includes household support and farm improvement as well as the old debt adjustment and farm build-up schemes and the special concessional interest rate carry-on loans for dairy and beef producers. The beef industry will receive about $40m in Commonwealth grant money for brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication and to pay for meat inspection charges which the Labor Government had previously charged to the primary producer. 
Together with other rural members, I have spoken for some months in the party room, in Parliament and with Ministers on the need to introduce a classification scheme and then a New Zealand type price buffer scheme, as well as making short term arrangements to provide urgently needed cash for producers in dire circumstances. I am confident that short term assistance will be provided and that the Government will assist financially the installation of the necessary equipment on the beef chains for classification. I am also more confident now than I was six months ago when I last spoke on this matter in the Parliament and when I made representations to the Minister, that a New Zealand type stabilisation scheme is likely to be introduced. 
However, I want to make the point that it is one thing for a producer organisation to say that something should be done and it is another for it to develop a practical scheme that will actually achieve what is intended. Furthermore, the growing number of people claiming to represent beef producers and putting forward sometimes contradictory and unresearched proposals makes it harder for government to establish what the farmer really wants. It is one thing to say that the Government should immediately introduce a classification scheme and it is another to get agreement between the States and the industry on which equipment should be installed. I repeat what I said earlier this year, namely, that if the actual introduction of an objective classification scheme is delayed because of technical difficulties, a visual scheme based on Meat Board types should be introduced so that a stabilisation scheme can commence. New Zealand operates its stabilisation scheme on a visual classification basis. 
The establishment of the Rural Bank is, of course, the big news in the Budget for primary producers. It is to be a bank that will provide long term loans for farm purchasers. It is important that the actual legislation and administrative arrangements with the private credit institutions, such as the banks, be finalised well before Christmas so that the Rural Bank can at long last become operative. Once it is established the election policy of having a young farmer establishment scheme must be developed so that we have a scheme similar to those already operating in New Zealand and Canada. Once the Rural Bank is operating we must look at the remainder of small business and its need for better credit facilities so that it can be helped in the same way as the rural small business sector will be helped with the establishment of the Rural Bank. One way in which that can be done is to broaden the charter of the Commonwealth Development Bank so that it can more effectively incorporate all forms of small business. 
There are many aspects of the Budget which are on-going. Critics of the rural sector of the 
Budget forget that point. They forget that many forms of assistance are either on-going, as I said, or are announced at the appropriate time rather than in the Budget. I refer, for example, to the dairy industry. The Government announced in good time the continuation of underwriting for the 1977-78 season. The introduction by the Government of underwriting and now the announcement of its continuation is a most important factor in the present stability and slightly better optimism in the industry. The final cost to the Commonwealth Government for the 1976-77 underwriting will be somewhere between $8m and $9m; and most of that will be in respect of butter. 
I turn now to wool. Prior to the commencement of the wool selling season the Government announced that the minimum reserve price on a whole clip basis will continue at 284c per kilo clean for this selling year, if you like, and for this financial year. Contrary to predictions made by some of the knockers, the superphosphate bounty will continue and will cost the Government about $40m. Country people also tend to overlook what the Government is doing for local government. State government Press releases on council or road grants forget to mention that quite often that money comes from the Federal Government. Sixteen councils in the Murray electorate will receive more than $2,600,000 this year from the Commonwealth Government. That figure represents an increase of 19 per cent on last year's allocation. In the case of some councils the grant is now 40 per cent to SO per cent of rate income. So imagine the rate problems our rural shires would have if they did not receive that form of aid. 
I turn now to roads. The Government has introduced a new three-year Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement to supersede that introduced by the Labor Government and the allocation will double from $15m to $30m this year for rural, local and arterial roads in Victoria. That money will be spent on roads by rural councils. However, the Victorian Government may reduce its commitment to these road categories so that local councils may not be much ahead financially. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
-Before the suspension of the sitting I was talking about what is in the Budget for country people. In particular, I referred to the dramatic increase in road grants for country municipalities. In Victoria this year the allocation for rural local and arterial roads, that is money spent by councils, doubled from $ 1 5m to $30m. I made the point that it is possible that the Victorian Government may reduce its commitment to these road categories and local councils may not be much ahead financially unless State members of parliament can prevent this happening. 
The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  is to be congratulated for at last achieving the go ahead for a maximum security quarantine station on the Cocos Islands. Over $ 12m has been committed for this project and other capital works for quarantine facilities around Australia which are of tremendous importance to the continued health of our livestock industries. There are other measures of special interest to country people. One is in the field of education, where in the Isolated Children's Allowance Scheme, certain allowances were increased in 1977. There are announcements in the Budget of increases in some of the other allowances in 1978. The Isolated Children's Allowance will cost the Government in total, $ 1 3.8m. What is causing interest at home at present is that part of the Murray electorate is in one of the five special areas in Victoria for which funds have been advanced by the Federal Government for the Special Rural Disadvantaged Schools Program. Many people in the Murray electorate and I have been urging Ministers for Education to change the criteria for disadvantage. Rural people were left out of this category because of an out-moded criteria system. The Federal Government has responded and is to put $600,000 into Victoria for trial projects, $100,000 of which is now going into the Nathalia, Echuca, Rochester and Rushworth areas of the electorate. 
-That is the Murray electorate. The Government has also increased the Tertiary Education Assistance Allowance (TEAS), that is living allowance, for 1978. That will be of benefit to country people because of the number of students who have to live away from home to obtain a tertiary education. The community health program budget has been increased. This is of significance to country people because that program allows a greater flexibility in health expenditure. In a number of community health grants the special requirements of country people can be met by this program whereas they cannot be met by the more inflexible general health grants. 
The new nursing home benefits to operate from 1 October offer greater security for people who require to enter a nursing home or place their relations in one. This is an area of considerable concern to country people, particularly as many nursing homes are some distance from the area in which they live. There is always a fear of insecurity. One should always remind country people and all self-employed small business people of the importance of the change to the means test for pensions by abolishing the notional 10 per cent return on capital, that is the capital requirement, and taking into account only the genuine income. This is of tremendous value to farming people who want to retire and move out to allow the next generation to come in and to small business people whether they live in the country or the city. 
The Myers report has recommended that farmers be no longer eligible for unemployment benefit. I sincerely hope that the Government continues to reject this recommendation. If unemployment benefit is cut out for farming people it will be a great injustice. I believe it should be extended for all self-employed people. Last winter, that is the winter of 1976, in the Murray electorate over 700 farmers qualified for the unemployment benefit. As it is adjudged on an annual income basis, that means that at least 700 farmers on an annual income basis- honourable members should remember that this includes return on capital investment and a return for skill and labour- earned less than the unemployment benefit. It is a tragic situation that some 700 people qualified for the unemployment benefit. However, it kept them in living expenses for a couple of months. This winter the number is down to 200 mainly because of the underwriting arrangements for the dairy industry and the better payments by canneries because of the special loans this Government provided when it first came into office. 
The Migrant Information Service will continue. This is important because it is now beginning to provide a service for migrants in country areas. The handicapped children 's allowance criteria in respect of incapacity have been extended and relaxed. This has always been a concern for country people because of the problem of isolation from some of the special facilities available in the large centres. The cost to the Government will increase from about $ 1 1 m to $ 1 8m this year. I shall talk further on the estimates for health, welfare and social security, but I make the point that much still has to be done by this Government for country people. There is the fuel equalisation scheme. Federal estate duties have at least to be updated for inflation, if not abolished as some of the States are now doing. 
In relation to gift duty we had a figure of $10,000 five years ahead of the Victorian Government. We also require a statutory control for the Canned Fruits Board so that canning fruit growers can receive payments similar to those which dairy, wheat and wool producers are receiving. There are the salinity problems in the Murray River. There are the real problems of the cost of telecommunications for country people. There is the need for more money for upgrading of country airports. There is the need for rebates for transport and accommodation costs incurred by country people who have to visit a specialist in a far away city. If a child has to attend a hospital considerable expense for the parent to be near the child is involved. 
There is also the need for a general agricultural stabilisation statute in this country similar to that in Canada and, perhaps closer to home in New Zealand since the Zanetti report, to provide a legislative base on which to work for any rural industry which wants stability and is prepared to make a contribution itself. I emphasise that. When one considers the things that still need to be done for rural people and then takes into account the record of the previous Labor Government and the minimum attention paid to country people in speeches on the Budget by honourable members opposite, one can see that the Labor Party has no priority for country people. This indicates also that Liberal-National Country Party representation and endeavour are the only hope for country people. On that basis I support the Budget. 
I also commend the presence in the House of the  Speaker,  who, as the Presiding Officer, is the senior officer responsible for this part of the Parliament. I put the basic question: For what purpose was Parliament House built? I also put the subsequent question: In the achievement of that aim or purpose, who should have priority in the allocation of the limited space in this building? The answer must be that Parliament House is for the governing of this country by those elected for that purpose to represent the people of Australia. I do not believe the present situation reflects that priority that members and senators should have in this building. However, the position is better than it was, certainly in respect of the recent past since I have been here. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  and the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  referred to an earlier period. 
I note that the  Speaker  and the  President  of the Senate are very much aware of the situation. 
I understand that certain plans are in hand to alleviate the position further. But I must say that the demands on a member have increased at a disproportionate rate to the improvement in facilities. There are many reasons for the increased work load and I shall mention some of them. First, unlike State parliaments where the number of members is being continually increased to offset the growing population and demands on those members, it appears impossible to increase the size of the House of Representatives. In fact, a recent High Court decision has reduced the number of members of this House. Secondly, people are not only using their members more than they have in the past but also they are turning more to Federal members for many of their problems or aspects of policy areas that in the past were considered to be State matters only. My third point is that Parliament is passing more legislation and that there are more committees and inquiries of a national and parliamentary nature requiring the time of members of Parliament and their staff. 
The Remuneration Tribunal acknowledged this situation in its 1977 determination. In paragraph 31 on page 19 of its review the Tribunal stated: 
We are satisfied that there is a prima facie case for a back bencher to have one member of staff in Canberra, one in his electorate and one additional staff member who may be located in either place from time to time. We will look further at this matter when the accommodation constraint at Parliament House is overcome. 
Canada probably is the most appropriate example for this Parliament to consider in terms of accommodation and staff because its system is similar. I was in Canada a couple of years ago and I understand that a member of Parliament in Canada represents about three quarters of the number of electors that we do. Each member of the lower house in Canada has an office of three rooms, if not in Parliament House itself, in a building quite adjacent to it. The member has a staff of two in his parliamentary office and a staff of one back in his electoral office. In other words, he has a staff of three which was the size virtually recommended for members of this place by the Remuneration Tribunal. 
Twenty-two members of the House of Representatives, or about 16 per cent of the total, are obliged to share rooms. As a result it is impossible for these members to have any staff in Parliament House at all. I might point out that members of Parliament are now allowed to employ one research assistant each. There are 30 research assistants presently employed with House of Representatives members in this building. 
A couple of weeks ago a group of Government back benchers made a tour of Parliament House. I was not a member of this group but I understand that it found more room could be made available. There is an unoccupied flat on the Senate side of the House. Members of the group were informed that the flat was used to house a small bomb disposal unit which would, presumably deal with incoming mail. I understand that there are five rooms in the flat. There is also one vacant Senate office which had been vacated by a research assistant. Members of the group believe that they saw only one office used by staff employed in Parliament House that was worse than the offices that many members are required to put up with in this building. It is not absolutely essential to house some sections of support staff in this building and therefore they should make way for members and senators. 
Therefore the problem is one of restricted space and the priority for allocation of that space. Eventually the construction of the new and permanent Parliament House will overcome this problem. But stage one is set down for completion in 1988- that is 1 1 years away. I commend and support the  Speaker  and the  President  for their determination to have stage one completed on time in 1988 because it is absolutely essential that this be done. But what is to happen in the meantime- in the 1 1 years until 1988. I believe that all who work and who are accommodated in this building must accept that a certain minimal standard must be provided for all members and senators and that this standard must include a separate room for each member of parliament. It is also important that those rooms be of a size to accommodate adequately the member and one research assistant. We should remember that the Remuneration Tribunal has stated that a case has been proved for up to two people in addition to the member to be located in Parliament House. 
I acknowledge that the facilities of the staff who work here are also inadequate. I am not saying that the facilities are inadequate for members only. But I return to the point of who must have or should have first priority for that space. The answer for the next 1 1 years appears to be to add to this building where possible and to re-locate as close to Parliament as possible staff whom it is not absolutely essential to house in the building. I want to emphasise that that re-location must allow the minimum accommodation standards for members to be achieved. In conclusion, I commend again the  Speaker  and the  President  for their recognition of this problem. 
-The Prime Minister will be aware that several State governments either have abolished State probate duty or are about to do so. Will this mean that the Commonwealth Government will collect more Federal estate duty and, therefore, to a degree nullify the actions of those State governments? Does the Prime Minister agree that this is a most unjust tax and that Federal estate duty should also be abolished or at least updated to compensate for the inflation of the past few years? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 20 September 1 977: 
What action is the Government or the Pharmacy Guild taking to encourage the rationalisation of uneconomic pharmacies. 
In this rationalisation what safeguards or assistance are being provided for uneconomic pharmacies in otherwise unserviced areas. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 1 June 1977: 
1 ) Can he say who are the shareholders of the Australian Meat Export Corporation Pry Ltd. 
Would it be a suitable vehicle for a single seller arrangement of meat to Japan. 
If so, is it being considered for such a role, and what other alternative proposals are being considered by the Government to meet the monopoly power of the Japanese Livestock Industry Promotion Corporation. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 6 September 1977: 
1 ) Is his Department establishing any productivity criteria or assessment procedures to measure and monitor the efficiency of tertiary industry in Australia. 
Is there a need for this assessment since the Industries Assistance Commission only investigates and reports on manufacturing and primary industries. 
-Firstly I congratulate the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  the Ministers in charge of the portfolios to which I wish to refer, for the responsible, constructive, compassionate and successful way in which they have administered their portfolios. I refer, first of all, to the Department of Social Security- the responsibility of  Senator Guilfoyle.  It has an outlay of $7,247.9m, an increase of 12.7 per cent on the last Budget, and 27 per cent of total Budget expenditure- a very responsible ministerial position. Because of this, I am pleased to hear that the Minister has instituted an overall review of the Department of Social Security to implement improvements in it. No criticism of the Department is intended by having such a review. Surely efficiencies and savings can be made in a department of that size and with an expenditure of that nature. 
I compliment the Minister on the maintenance of many worthwhile programs and the ability to increase significantly assistance to several categories of handicapped people. The total expenditure this Budget year for the handicapped will be $99m, a 33 per cent increase on last year. Until now the criteria for the handicapped child's allowance have been that a severely handicapped child receives $15 a week if that child is looked after by parents. The criteria have been eased significantly, and now refer to a substantially handicapped child, particularly relating to low income families or families in necessitous financial circumstances because of the additional cost of looking after that child. That will significantly increase expenditure in that area from about $1 lm to $18m this year. The criteria for rehabilitation services have been expanded. Until now they have been on the basis that a person must have a reasonable prospect of employment after rehabilitation. The criteria now will be that the former role of that person has a reasonable chance of being maintained or retained. For the first time housewives and mothers, amongst others, will be included. I am glad that this discrimination against women and that most essential role of the housewife and mother have been recognised by the Government. Discrimination against women in the assessment of the sickness benefit has also been removed. 
The Budget referred to migrant information and resource centres in Melbourne and Sydney. The allocation has been increased from $2 .2m to $2.6m. No mention is made of the extension of this service to country and provincial areas. This was commenced late last year so that communications and an information service could be established. I know that preliminary work was done at least in the electorates of Mallee, Murray and Corio. I am concerned for the future of this information service in these country areas. I wrote to the regional director in Victoria sometime ago trying to obtain information on the position at the moment, and I am awaiting his reply. 
One of the recommendations of the Myers* inquiry into unemployment benefits is that the payment of unemployment benefit to farmers be terminated. I oppose strongly any government action to terminate the payment of that benefit to farmers. If any legislation to that effect were introduced I could not support it because the criteria for payments for the benefit to these people should be similar to the criteria for anybody else. Farmers must be available for work, and the income test imposed on them is far more severe than the income test for other people. The benefit is provided for farmers in desperate circumstances with short term liquidity problems who make themselves available for work. The household support scheme has been introduced for long term problems of adjustment. In the winter of 1 976 some 700 farmers in my electorate found that they had to apply for this. Because of improved support arrangements from this Government that number has been reduced to 200 this year. 
The single parent benefit is the greatest gap in our social security system. The gap is caused by the lack of a supporting father or lone male parent benefit. These people suffer other disadvantages. I just refer to the cash disadvantage within the social security system. I know that the special benefit is available, but I do not think that it is an adequate or a fair test. As a first step, there should be a supporting parents benefit similar to the supporting mothers benefit so there is no discrimination because of sex. I have spoken on this matter on a number of occasions, and I know that others have. I know that the Minister is personally in favour of its introduction. I hope that she can be successful the next time around in plugging what, as I said, is the biggest gap in our social security system. 
I note also that other reviews within the Department of Social Security are under way on the whole income security system and, in relation to the Department of Health, the Bailey task force has possibly reported to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  by now. It is tremendously significant to improve the flexibility, the reduction in overlap or duplication and the position generally in a whole range of health and welfare services of a federalist nature, as I believe some of these recommendations are, which may be implemented by the Government. 
The Department of Health has been allocated $2,8 13m in this Budget, a 10.7 per cent increase over last year. That amount is 10.6 per cent of the total Budget allocation. Once again it is a very significant area of government expenditure. I congratulate the Minister on his successful introduction of the modified Medibank system during the last 12 months. This has encouraged the private sector. It has guaranteed a freedom of choice for the majority of Australian people and this, together with the new nursing home benefit arrangements, the payment for services from government pathology laboratories and the payments for overseas trips vaccinations, adds up to a very good implementation of the Government's philosophy that those people who can pay should pay, and support of the private sector. 
I also commend the Minister on the progress he has made with accountability and flexibility arrangements in our health delivery system. The accreditation scheme of the Hospitals Association and the Australian Medical Association is proceeding. The Minister has made arrangements with the AMA for peer review. I understand that the Department is looking at a whole range of new ideas, such as pre-paid health plans or health maintenance organisation arrangements, and catastrophic insurance arrangements, all of which, if implemented, will add to the efficiency, accountability and flexibility of the system. If one adds to that the increased allocation for the Community Health Program, with the variety of more flexible services that this offers, one can say 'Well done' to the Minister. 
The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson),  referred to quarantine. I commend the Minister on the allocation for Cocos Island and other quarantine facilities. However, I question two aspects of quarantine generally: Firstly, if the quarantine station on Cocos Island is to be constructed, does this mean that all the other expenditure on animal quarantine facilities now going on will be completely necessary or will some of it be duplication? I refer in particular to Torrens Island. The other matter is the overall priority for expenditure in the animal health and quarantine areas. The point has been made that the National Animal Health Laboratory at Geelong has received no Budget allocation this year. I know that this is not in the Minister's area. But, if we have an overall priority for expenditure on animal quarantine and animal health generally, perhaps some money should have been allocated for Geelong out of the total amount. 
I refer now to the 50-50 cost-sharing arrangement with the States in respect of hospital operating costs. There is concern in Victoria and the other States at the restrictions they claim are being applied. From what I can understand- this depends on the time of acceptance last year by the States of the new Medibank arrangementsthe increase in Victoria this year will be at least 12 per cent. That compares with an annual average increase of perhaps 16 per cent to 17 per cent. Victoria claims that it is receiving $ 10m less than it requested. The Commonwealth's total share is $224m. I hope that the State governments and the Commonwealth watch the hospital situation and that the States, as the administrators of the hospital cost-sharing arrangements, are flexible in their administration and do not apply across the board reductions or expenditure holding arrangements. In many cases these arrangements do not take into account the need for better services in certain areas. 
To conclude, I refer to something the Minister spoke about on Sunday in Canberra; that is, the need to provide equality of health services for country people. This is perhaps the greatest gap in our health policy at present. Country people must have the ability to see specialists at no great cost. Parents must have the ability to cover their transport and accommodation cost when they have to accompany their child to a far-away metropolitan hospital. The Government must introduce measures to assist people in country areas so that they have equality of health services with city people. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 6 September 1977: 
1 ) When was the reference given to the Industries Assistance Commission to inquire into ball and roller bearings. 
Why has the IAC taken so long to finalise the report 
3 ) Will the report be of any use in determining an appropriate policy for the industry because of the time lag that has occurred. 
What action has he taken to hasten the report. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 4 October 1977: 
1 ) Did price increases on pharmaceutical benefits scheme products produced by the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories exceed those of any private enterprise company during the last 4 financial years. 
Were these increases more than 4 times the average for the industry; if so, why; if not, what are the correct figures. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 4 October 1977: 
Has his attention been drawn to criticism of the standard of television programs for children in Australia. 
If so, what is the Government doing to encourage improvement. 
Has the Government agreed to establish a Commission of Television Affairs which will define children's times free from advertising, determine quotas and categories, appoint panels of qualified people, establish criteria for a special children's classification, promote the making of children's programs in Australia, investigate funding for these projects, and establish a children's television foundation for distribution; if not, why not. 
-The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  and other Australian Labor Party speakers tried to give the impression that these amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act are a form of union bashing. I suggest that on reading the amendments and the legislation generally a far more compelling argument could be made that the amendments are to strengthen the role of the individual unionist and to protect his rights against certain union leadership. Furthermore, because of the effect of union power on all aspects of life in this country, there is a need for greater accountability by the unions to the public at large. I believe that these amendments go some of the way towards fulfilling these requirements. 
The amendments have not been introduced suddenly. They have not been introduced just because of the Latrobe Valley dispute, the Seamen's Union dispute, the dispute involving the transport people in Western Australia or the dispute involving the Builders Labourers Federation in Melbourne, although I believe that each one of those disputes provides justification for the introduction of these amendments. All these amendments were put forward many months ago. There were lengthly consultations with the union movement, with employers and with people inside Parliament. I believe the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  is to be congratulated on his patient and painstaking approach to this important legislation and for allowing it to be discussed for a period of months. Nothing could be further from the truth than to claim that it had been suddenly brought in because of the Latrobe Valley dispute. 
The amendments have several distinct purposes. They are designed firstly to protect the rights of individual unionists. I believe these amendments and the principle behind them are supported by the majority of ordinary unionists in my electorate, because time and time again they have complained to me about political strikes of which they do not want to be a part, about the less than genuine secret ballots for the leadership of their union and about compulsory levies for certain funds the ideology of which they do not subscribe to. They want protection, in many cases, from the unrepresentative nature of their leadership. What are these measures? Firstly there is the question of conscientous objection, of protecting a person rather than forcing him to join a union. If he has a conscientous objection to joining a union there is a provision by which an amount can be decided and the payment made into Consolidated Revenue as an alternative to a union fee. Some States already have such a provision for unions within their power. It has been suggested to the MinisterI suggest it to him again- that if it is possible a discretion should be allowed so that payment could be made to a recognised charity, not just to Consolidated Revenue. 
The second point is forced unionism for selfemployed people. There are amendments to protect against coercion and other unfair tactics for people who really are not wage or salary earners ut who are self-employed contractors. The amendments protect such people from being forced into joining a union which really does not have a genuine interest in such people but a union which will be used against them and which is being used against them if they fail to join. For example, take the owner of a truck which carries premixed cement for some bulk cement com- pany, and the unionists fail to load the truck un:ss he joins a union which he really has no point in joining. The third amendment concerns refusal of an individual to participate in industrial action. There is protection against his dismissal because of this and against other forms of disadvantage such as being fined or penalised for failing to take part in it. The Medibank strike of last year is a perfect example of thuggery in many areas against individuals who stood up for their rights- rights that every Australian should have- to decide whether they should participate in a particular action. 
The next amendment deals with secret postal ballots for union elections. It surprises me that many people in Australia are still not aware that we passed legislation some time ago providing for secret postal ballots for union leadership. This amendment is to tidy up the loopholes which some unionists have used to try to subvert a genuine exercise of opinion by their ordinary union membership. There are many examples of the union leadership trying to protect itself and trying to restrict the real rights and freedoms of the individual union member. For example, there was one case in which nominations for leadership of a union were to be presented at union headquarters. Because they were presented at union headquarters by hand rather than through the post office box of the union, that was considered to be not a correct situation. Therefore the nominations were not accepted. Another example is a case in which five days after the nominations for a union leadership ballot both opened and closed, a notice appeared in the paper to that effect. These are the sorts of loopholes which are restricting the rights of the ordinary unionist to participate gainfully in his union's affairs and to get the leadership which he feels he wants and is really representative. Where union elections have not been conducted properly there are provisions to declare them null and void. 
There is the question of greater accountability of union finances. Once again I believe that this is protecting the rights of individual unionists to see what is happening to their money and, in some cases, even from where it comes. These statements of account of the unions must be audited and filed. I believe that in these days of greater public accountability the public has a right to know the sources of union revenue and the avenues on which they are expended, including the possibility of illegal payments. We already have documentation in this country of such payments, with the maritime unions a couple of years ago. 
I referred earlier to another aspect of the legislation, and that is that because the unions influence the everyday activities of nearly all Australians at present, usually to their disadvantage, there is a genuine public interest in whatever a union may do. Hence the Industrial Relations Bureau. This legislation specifies the powers of that Bureau. They are the same powers as those previously held by the arbitration inspectorate. There are no new draconian regulations or requirements. A separate Act established the Bureau in June. The Bill received royal assent on 12 June. A head of the Bureau has been appointed. Basically the Bureau will investigate whether and see that there is observance of the Act. It will have powers to initiate investigations in relation to the Act and follow up complaints from individuals. Once again, in many cases the complaints will be from individual unionists who feel aggrieved at the tyranny of their leadership. Under this Bill there is greater flexibility in the process of deregistration procedures and, for the first time, perhaps the power to adjudicate in demarcation disputes- the cause of many unnecessary industrial troubles in this country. There is a great need to protect the individual and the people of this nation, in particular the individual unionist, from this type of oppressive union leadership. 
I refer to the other main point made by Labor speakers, and that is their fixation with the Latrobe Valley dispute and the present problems in that area. They say that somehow or other the Latrobe Valley situation is one which everybody should have agreed was one of justice, that it was done properly through the arbitration process and that it was another exercise of the Government not giving in to legitimate union demands but indulging in union bashing. I quote from the speech during the Adjournment Debate last night by the honourable member for McMillan,  Mr Barry  Simon, who quoted from a letter to the local newspaper.  Mr Simon  is the Federal member for that area. The Adjournment Debate is never broadcast. I believe this letter is an important document which shows to the people of Australia the true situation within unions and between unions. It shows the justice of the claims in the Latrobe Valley at present.  Mr Simon  said: 
I refer to a letter from the State  President  of the Federated Engine Drivers and Firemen's Association, who is also Secretary of the Morwell sub-branch of that union, and the Secretary of the Yallourn sub-branch of that union to the local newspaper, the Latrobe Valley  Express  some three weeks ago. In that letter  Mr Kroezen  and  Mr Coffield  state: 
The log of claims, cause of the disputation, was, and still constitutionally is, in the hands of the Victorian Trades Hall Council. Processes were under way for establishing complete agreement among all unions with members employed in the SEC before the log was submitted by the VTHC to the SEC on behalf of all these unions. 
Two meetings of representatives of the SEC unions were held at the VTHC in May, at which discussion was necessarily protracted because of complex award matters involved. It would have been, nevertheless, only a matter of time until agreement was ultimately reached on the log to be submitted to the SEC through constitutional trade union channels. 
However, on IS June, an organised group calling itself the SEC Latrobe Valley Shop Stewards Committee, under the leadership of Amalgamated Metal Workers Union official S. Armstrong took it upon itself to call a mass meeting of SEC workers in the Latrobe Valley in order to discuss the log of claims issued. 
I interpose to remind the House that these words were said by two leading trade union officials in the Latrobe Valley. This letter continued: 
At this meeting S. Armstrong, after a reprehensible and completely unjustified attack on the VTHC, moved a resolution that the Latrobe Valley work force 'go it alone' in pursuing a log of claims with the SEC. This resolution was narrowly carried, committing the workers involved to breaking away from a unified campaign, properly conducted under the control of the VTHC. Overtime and availability bans were imposed forthwith, this industrial action escalating to the now seven-week long stoppage. 
Apart from the fact that S. Armstrong's committee is representative of only 11 of the unions with members employed in the SEC, shop stewards committees, which operate under an ACTU charter, have no consitutional authority to either engage in this type of industrial activity or pursue matters affecting wage rates or award conditions. From the outset, therefore, the Latrobe Valley campaign has been essentially illegal and divorced from properly constituted trade union procedures. The 2,300 men involved have been badly misled and the great hardship suffered by them and their families should never have happened. 
In response to certain grunts from the Labor Party side I interpose once again to say that these are the words of senior trade union officials in the Latrobe Valley about the Latrobe Valley situation. This letter continues:  
The FEDFA, together with the other unions with members in SEC employ, has endeavoured to act responsibly by maintaining a position within the framework of the VTHC campaign. This campaign has, of course, been disrupted by the Latrobe Valley operation. 
Disunity there certainly is, but the whole disunifying process was initiated by S. Armstrong and his shop stewards on IS June. 
I believe that is a most useful document to show the true situation in the Latrobe Valley and the breakdown in ordinary and essential arbitration processes. To my mind this reinforces certain comments made about the power of the shop stewards, the usurping of constituted trade union authority, the British disease in this country, and articles written by Paul Johnson, that leading Labor Party intellectual in the United Kingdom, who contributed to the  New Statesman  on the new tyranny of the trade unions. 
-If I had been him I probably would have resigned earlier. It would have been a sensible thing to do. Amongst other things he said this: 
A union card already confers a greater degree of real political power than a parliamentary vote. Increasingly, it is the title deed to full citizenship, more important than a birth certificate or a passport- an identity card, in fact, the only document which proves a man exists and has rights. 
This reminds me of that song of not so long ago which says that you cannot touch me because I belong to the union. I hope that with these amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act we can restore some rights and protection to the individual union man in this country who, I believe, overwhelmingly supports this legislation. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 6 September 1977: 
1 ) Is it still the intention of his Department to provide a brief document for every air traveller arriving in Australia to explain the necessity for aircraft fumigation and other quarantine procedures. 
If so, when will the brochure be released. If not, why not. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 14 September 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the recent activities of the Commercial Bank of Australia Ltd and its affiliated company Henry Jones (IXL) Ltd in the Victorian Goulburn Valley. 
If so, is the Bank sponsoring or otherwise involved in the Henry Jones proposed takeover of the fruit canning cooperative SPC Ltd. 
If so, is this a proper and ethical activity for the holder of a Federal banking licence. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 4 October 1 977: 
What proportion of gross profit and profit before tax of the Fawnmac group of companies was derived from contract work carried out for the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories during the last 3 financial years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 6 October 1977: 
1 ) How many farmers, showing the electoral divisions in which they are located, received unemployment benefits during 1976 and up to 3 1 August 1977. 
What was the average period of payment and in which months were the payments concentrated. 
How many farmers, showing the rural industries in which they were engaged, received benefits and what was the average weekly benefit paid to each group. 
What percentage of applicants for benefits were successful. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science the following question, upon notice, on 6 October 1977. 
1) Is Australia using or intending to use the Landsat satellite system for agriculture; if so, how much does it cost and who pays; 
What information is available from Landsat which is of value to agriculture and how is this information disseminated; 
Can marihuana plantations be located by Landsat. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 20 October 1977: 
Has the Department of Social Security instituted a policy of exchanging senior personnel for a limited period with those of similar status and standard in the private sector or State government departments; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 14 September 1977: 
Has his attention been drawn to the concern of fruitgrowers in the Victorian Goulburn Valley regarding the involvement of the Commercial Bank of Australia Ltd in the proposed takeover of the co-operative canning company SPC Ltd by the Bank's affiliate, Henry Jones IXL Ltd. 
If so, what action can be taken by the Government to discourage smart money raids of this sort and ensure the long-term protection of producers co-operatives from raiders. 
Will he make representations to the Reserve Bank seeking a directive from that Bank to the CBA to dissuade the CBA from persisting with any financial adventures that threaten the interests of farmers, who are already on the breadline. 
asked the Minister, representating the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 20 October 1977: 
Is there a need for some form of accreditation or evaluation of sheltered workshops to ensure that a particular workshop does not attempt to do types of work beyond its capability. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 31 May 1977: 
Have there been problems and misunderstandings over the importation of cattle semen from Canada due to the blue tongue status of that country. 
If so, what has been the problem and what is the present situation. 
What amount of semen from which breeds have been imported from Canada in each of the years 1974 to 1976 and in the period 1 January to 3 1 March 1977. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 6 September 1977: 
1 ) Which primary industry co-operative marketing arrangements or statutory marketing boards receive advances from the Rural Credits Section of the Reserve Bank to allow initial or first advance payments. 
In respect of which of these does the Government guarantee repayment to the Bank. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice, on 6 October 1977: 
With reference to his answer to question No. 1642  (Hansard,  9 December 1976, page 3680) relating to United States Domestic International Sales Corporations (DISC) which are engaged in agricultural exports and competing with Australian products, has the special GATT committee reported; if so, what were the conclusions and what action has the Australian or any other Government taken with the United States of America. 
asked the Minister  for  Primary Industry, upon notice, on 6 October 1977: 
1 ) Is the Australian Dairy Corporation significantly altering the role of Asia Dairy Industries from an outlet for Australian dairy products to that of an international dairy entrepreneur; if so, is this considered to be in the best interests of Australian dairy farmers. 
What actual financial advantage has there been and is there likely to be for these dairy farmers. 
Have there been any proven cases for unexplained or excessive financial gain for individuals associated with Asia Dairy Industries; if so, who and what sums were involved. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 12 October 1977: 
What progress has been made with the proposal for a new basis of payment for milk for manufacturing purposes. 
When, and by whom, will any decisions be made to alter the basis of payment. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 13 October 1977: 
Since the introduction of the apple and pear stabilisation scheme, how much has the Commonwealth Government contributed each year to the scheme, and how much of that contribution has been for fresh pears. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
As soon as the final figures become available, will he provide a detailed summary of the fruit-growing reconstruction scheme including the average, total and average per acre value, for each variety of irrigated and non-irrigated fruit in each State? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice on 13 October 1977: 
Is a departmental committee or the National Health and Medical Research Council currently investigating the problem of road trauma; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 20 October 1977: 
1 ) In his recent announcement of aid to the beef industry, did he indicate that he would endeavour to have the States refrain from increasing charges which affect beef producers. 
If so, what success has he had with these endeavours, particularly in respect of the 9 per cent increase in Victorian meat inspection charges which follows a 15 per cent increase in 1976, when the Commonwealth has abolished these charges federally. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 13 October 1977: 
Is there any allowance for increased drug manufacturing costs in the additional sum of $30m provided in the 1977-78 Budget for the pharmaceutical benefits scheme; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 13 October 1977: 
1 ) What progress has been made with the implementation of the recommendations of the report  Rural Health in Australia. 
Which of the recommendations are considered to be the most important, and which are more likely to be implemented. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 18 October 1977: 
Has Victoria received less than any other State under the 52 for $1 grants of the Health Services Planning and Research Program; if so, why. 
-The Bill extends the Homeless Persons Assistance Act for an additional 12 months. Originally, the legislation was to have effect for three years, after which there was to be a review. The review has taken place and recommendations have been made to widen in some ways the scope of the scheme. However, the Government is still considering the Bailey task force recommendations in the general health and welfare area. Therefore, it is only sensible that since the Government has not yet reached a decision on these matters, including the future of the Homeless Persons Assistance Act, in relation to health and welfare generally, the existing legislation should continue for a further 12 months. This will permit the continuation of various subsidies, and the completion of some of the capital programs involved. It is a sensible step and I commend the Minister for Social Security for ensuring the continuation of the Act and removing any concern that voluntary organisations may have in that regard. I therefore support the Bill. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 4 October 1977: 
What are the current administrative arrangements for the selection and purchase of Australian livestock for foreign aid projects. 
Do these arrangements guarantee that genetically superior rather than show ring livestock are selected. 
Has Australia's reputation suffered in the past because the selection process sometimes resulted in inferior quality stock being sent to certain recipient countries, when compared with livestock from other Western nations. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 6 October 1977: 
What evidence is there that stevedoring companies and farm machinery manufacturers have reduced their charges or the cost of spare parts as recommended by the Prices Justification Tribunal. 
Has one major farm machinery manufacturer replaced its reduced spare parts price schedule with another one at least as high as that criticised by the Tribunal. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 12 October 1977: 
What action has been taken, or is proposed, to remove the present anomaly whereby a person requiring a pharmaceutical benefit prescription must pay $2 for each item if he presents it to a private chemist and nothing if he presents it to an approved hospital outpatient dispensary. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 13 October 1977: 
1 ) On which pharmaceutical benefit scheme items did the Pricing Bureau obtain price reductions and grant price increases during 1976-77. 
On each of these items how much is the estimated annual saving or cost to the Government and what is the name of the company manufacturing each of them. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice, on 6 October 1977: 
Is the New Zealand Dairy Board achieving greater success in selling that country's dairy products in Iran and New Guinea than is the Australian Dairy Corporation. 
What is the present market share of imported dairy products in those countries held by ( a) New Zealand and ( b) Australia. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 13 October 1977: 
What progress is being made with the development of health maintenance organisations on an experimental basis. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 20 October 1977: 
Has there been a rapid increase in the number of invalid pensioners in the 16 to 20 year age group in recent years. 
If so, what are the figures for each of the last 5 years for which records are available, and what is the percentage of the total of invalid pensioners for each of those years. 
Is it considered that greater incentives should be provided for this age group to encourage them to lead as useful a life as possible by requiring stricter rehabilitation assessment and /or the deferment of a permanent pension until a further assessment at a later age. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. The Minister will be aware of the value of government underwriting for the manufacturing sector of the dairy industry. However, is he aware of the concern being expressed by industry officials and factory managers that underwriting will cease with the introduction of Stage II of the National Dairy Plan? Can the Minister assure the dairy industry that Commonwealth Government underwriting will continue? 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 20 September 1977: 
How and where will most of the remaining $6.2m provided in the Budget for decentralisation assistance and intended for general decentralisation be spent. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry: 
Why does the Australian Wool Corporation have to pay 1 1.73 per cent interest on money borrowed to support the reserve price scheme, while other statutory commodity bodies pay almost 2 per cent less. 
As the Government guarantee provides a no risk situation for any lender, it is considered that the interest rate should be lower. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 20 September 1977: 
1) Is there a double standard with quarantine procedures for plants brought in by hand and for commercially imported cut flowers. 
Are flowers allowed in without adequate checks for possible diseases or pests. 
Is he satisfied with the procedures for cut flowers imported for resale. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 12 October 1 977: 
In which countries is there, or has there been, a Rhodesia Information Service. 
What action has been taken by the governments of these countries on the continued operation of official information centres in those countries. 
3 ) What are the major arguments in favour of the closure of the centre in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 20 October 1 977: 
What decisions have the 13 members of the Antarctica Treaty Organisation made on the exploitation and/or conservation of the natural resources in the Antarctic, particularly in respect of oil exploration and the harvesting of krill. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 20 October 1977: 
Has his Department instituted a policy of exchanging senior personnel for a limited period with those of similar status and standard in the private sector or State Government Departments; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 20 October 1977: 
What action is he or Australia Post prepared to take to ensure that mail is delivered to every Australian irrespective of his political or trade union attitude. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 27 October 1977: 
Do revelations on the growing of marijuana in Australia indicate that plantations of this illegal crop in certain areas known to be suitable for its cultivation should have been capable of discovery by Federal and State authorities. 
If so, has any State Government requested Federal financial assistance tor aerial inspection of likely areas, or for defence service planes or helicopters to be used for these inspections in the past 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 20 October 1977: 
1 ) What consideration has been given to the introduction of a new type of aged persons accommodation, sometimes called 'nursing hostels' to fill the gap between nursing homes and hostels. 
Is it considered that this type of accommodation is more deserving of Government support than single unit accommodation. 
-I move: 
That  Mr Millar,  the honourable member for Wide Bay, be appointed  Chairman  of Committees of this House. 
I may not always agree with the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  but I believe that his remarks are always relevant and worth listening to.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  would you convey to  Mr Speaker  my congratulations on his well-deserved knighthood and his reappointment as  Speaker  and to the new  Chairman  of Committees on his appointment. I want to concentrate in my speech on those aspects of the Governor-General's remarks which referred to rural policy and which are important to the electorate of Murray. I shall first refer to the dairy industry. In 1977 in the autumn session the first stage of the national dairy plan was legislated for in this Parliament. It followed an Industries Assistance Commission inquiry following the failure of the dairy industry to sort out for itself a new stabilisation scheme. It is anticipated that in this session legislation for stage 2 of the national dairy plan also may pass through Parliament. 
The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and the industry have had a difficult job because the Australian Dairy Farmers Federation changed its recommendations on what items should be included. There was disagreement at the August meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council and the matter was referred to the Standing Committee on Agriculture. The industry itself is very much divided. There is some federal control; there is some State control. There is a city milk sector and a manufacturing milk sector. At the January meeting of the Agricultural Council it was obvious that some real progress has been made towards a truly national dairy industry- something that was thought impossible just a few years ago. In the Murray electorate there are 3,500 dairy farmers not including share farmers- more dairy farmers than in any other electorate in Australia and more than in some of the States of Australia. It is the most important dairying electorate in Australia and, in particular, it is the most important manufacturing dairying electorate. 
On balance, in spite of the progress and some of the useful innovations, the stage 2 proposal for the Murray electorate and for Victoria is unfair. It is unfair because the entitlements for preferred production, which are the basis of the scheme, are not spread evenly throughout Australia. Some of the other States say that they have controlled and reduced their production and therefore it is quite right and proper for Victoria to be penalised in this way. I say- I have said this to the Minister for Primary Industry by letter and in discussion- that this is a spurious argument. The reason why the majority of production in Australia is in Victoria and, to a lesser extent, in Tasmania and the south of South Australia is that they are the most favoured areas for such production. They have the most efficient producers, just as other agricultural industries are centred in other areas in Australia. There has been a dramatic fall in the number of dairy farms in the Murray electorate, and in Victoria, but because of technical efficiency, technical innovation, the right sort of climate, and the use of irrigation it has a record second only to that of the 
Waikato region of New Zealand for its ability to grow grass and have low cost production. It is the second most efficient dairy producing area in the world. 
Murray has always been a significant dairy electorate. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member for Fadden will cease interjecting. 
If I am denigrating the honourable member's dairy farmers, perhaps I am achieving something. In the past Murray was also an important producer of beef and fat lambs. The Riverina area of New South Wales was a more efficient producer of fat lambs; hence fat lambs production declined in Murray. Queensland has developed its beef industry. Beef production has been reduced in Murray. If it is right for the other States to say that because my area of Australia produces more than another area and is more efficient it should be penalised, my beef producers and my fat lamb producers should receive special consideration and the fat lamb producers of New South Wales and the Queensland beef producers should be penalised in a way similar to what is being proposed with stage 2. 
In discussions with the Minister I have put that four aspects are unacceptable to me and to the Victorian dairy industry. One is the size of Victoria's entitlement relative to the other States and the fact that Victoria is the only State required to have over-entitlement production. The second is the manner in which the known surplus of entitlement will be transferred from the other States. There should be a mechanism that allows its more immediate and more automatic transfer. Thirdly, market milk or city milk, has to be included and be seen to be included. Even with the inclusion of market milk on a butterfat basis, a dairy farmer in my electorate on one bank of the Murray River will receive little more than two-thirds of what his friend across the river in New South Wales will receive for producing the same amount of milk. 
I cannot go into the detail, but the Bureau of Agricultural Economics has produced a paper on this which the honourable member may read. The fourth point concerns the determination of the national aggregate and through it the State aggregate entitlement for future years. There must be a basis which is equitable and which has limits on the change that can take place from year to year so we can have some stability in the industry. One cannot turn on and turn off the dairy industry as one can a production line in a secondary industry. I have said to the Minister that the correct position for him to adopt is to defer for 12 months the implementation of stage 2 because of the rapid changes taking place in the industry at present. For example, in Victoria and New South Wales new city milk arrangements are being incorporated which are having quite an effect on pricing policy over winter periods and causing a dramatic reduction in dairy farming on the outer fringes of the capital cities of those two States. 
Considerable product change is taking place in the industry, with cheese and whole milk coming up very quickly and butter and skim milk powder going down. There is also a continuing shift and decline in the industry in each of the States, and more and more concentration in the south-east corner of the nation. The sensible thing is to wait and to see what is happening, and be able to assess it and make the decision that is best for all of the industry in Australia when we have the facts, which are not clear to us at present because of these changes. 
The beef industry is suffering more than any other primary or secondary industry at present, with the possible exception of the canned fruit industry. The problem is caused by a combination of the cattle cycle, drought, access to overseas markets and the fat stock marketing or selling system in Australia. The result is extremely low and extremely variable prices to producers. A government cannot solve all these problems. It cannot counter the cattle cycle. It cannot alter the weather. It is very difficult to obtain access to all the overseas markets that we would like, although this matter is being debated in the Geneva section of the Tokyo Round of the Multinational Trade Negotiations. 
Some things we can do. We can significantly reduce short-term price variability, that is, the week to week variation in the auction yard which can mean a difference of 1 5 per cent to 20 per cent from the previous week for the price of an animal, depending on whether there is a strike, whether a particular buyer shows up or whether all the buyers get their heads together. From the New Zealand experience, I believe that if we can reduce the variability of prices and increase the return to the producers we can provide slightly higher prices. Through this we can improve price stability to the producer and the consumer. We can improve quality control for producers and consumers by a carcass classification scheme. In the statement of the Minister for Primary Industry to the House on 22 September last year- I believe the most important statement on the beef industry that has been made to this Parliamentthree of the policy announcements were in this area. They were the acceptance of a certain financial responsibility for carcass classification equipment, investigations into the feasibility of a weight and grade selling system and a price buffer or price smoothing system similar to that in operation in New Zealand. 
The Bureau of Agricultural Economics was commissioned to report in six months on the feasibility of a price smoothing scheme and I understand this report is due next month. Classification must come ahead of a price smoothing scheme because we must have an objective measurement system. There have been delays and difficulties with the very complicated and advanced system recommended by the Australian Meat and Live-stock Corporation. The Australian Agricultural Council, at its January meeting, acknowledged these problems of implementation and stated that it required within a month, which presumably is due next month also, a report on an interim or compromise classification scheme pending the final development of the more mechanical one. I would see it as a compromise between that ultimate scheme and the present New Zealand visual-manual scheme. 
Once these two reports are in it is important that the Government acts quickly because of the state of the beef industry. The New Zealand experience is most important when considering what should be done. There are four aspects of the New Zealand selling scheme. Firstly there is classification. Secondly, there is a weekly price schedule for fat livestock. Thirdly, there is a high percentage of weight and grade selling; that is, selling direct to an abattoir or freezing works. Finally, there is the price smoothing scheme which has now been operating for about 15 months. I have followed the New Zealand experience and when details of the new scheme in New Zealand became available I circulated them to other interested members of Parliament, raised the matter in the Party room and raised it in Parliament. A little more than 12 months ago I went to New Zealand and looked first hand at the scheme amongst other aspects of policy in that country. In discussing this and debating it with the Minister for Primary Industry I became aware from the way in which he responded that he was already assessing these proposals several months ahead of his September statement and several months ahead of the noisy intervention in this debate by a certain producer organisation. 
I have just returned from New Zealand again where I attended a seminar on agricultural trade between Australia and New Zealand on the one hand and access to the European Economic Community, Japan and North America on the other. I looked again at the dairy and horticultural policy of that country, its Rural Bank, its young farmers establishment scheme, telephone charges and fuel equalisation and relevant to this debate, I talked to Meat Producers Board officials and its  chairman, Mr Hilgendorf.  I visited several freezing works or abattoirs, talked to growers, government officials and meat works executives on the New Zealand system. I am pleased to see greater interest in the New Zealand system of selling meat apparent in quite a number of Australians, whether government officials or primary producer officials, in New Zealand now. 
However, it seems to me that for a price buffer scheme to be successful it must have all the aspects of the New Zealand scheme. Classification and weight and grade selling are acknowledged in the Minister's statement but a weekly price schedule is also essential even if it does not have the authority of the New Zealand system or the New Zealand schedule, which allows the intervention by the New Zealand Meat Board. Initially, it may be only an indicator schedule for different grades and different areas, but it is essential. At a later date I want to speak again in greater detail on more aspects of the New Zealand system and how I see them applying to Australia. The important thing now is to urge the Government to act quickly when it receives the reports I mentioned and at the same time explain to beef producers around Australia that the proposed new system will not solve all their problems. It has limitations but it can put some price stability, particularly in the short term, in the selling of their livestock. 
I turn now to the canned fruit industry. Three primary industries- the dairy industry, the export industry for fresh apples and pears and the canned fruit industry- have suffered the most from Britain's entry into the European Economic Community five years ago. Those industries have had to accept an unfair adjustment burden because of that entry. The real standards of living of the people involved in those industries have at least halved in those five years. The canned fruits pack is now about two-thirds of what it was before Britain entered the EEC. Because of reduced cannery throughput, processing costs have escalated and cash liquidity pressures have been placed upon the canneries. Price wars have resulted among the canneries because of that and the grower has always suffered. His payments are too little and too late. 
The industry has tried to adjust and the Government has provided some help with the tree pull scheme. But only partial success has resulted from cannery rationalisation, marketing economies and price stability. At the Australian Canning Fruit Association conference at Shepparton 1 8 months ago the grower section of the industry decided to ask the Minister for Primary Industry to support an industry proposal for a stabilisation scheme. He agreed to that proposal at a meeting with the growers in November 1976. But the establishment of a committee to draft the proposals to be contained in the scheme was delayed for several months while the industry tried once more to rationalise its cannery capacity. 
Certain sections of the industry mistakingly believed then, as they mistakenly believe now, that rationalisation would solve all the problems of the industry. They cannot see that a restructured Canned Fruits Board, using a levy power to control price cutting and to improve the level and speed with which payments are made to growers, is essential and must go hand in hand with rationalisation. To be more specific, both are necessary; one can go ahead of the other. Both the industry and the Minister believe that some restructuring of the Board is necessary and that it requires greater powers. 
About 12 months ago a sub-committee of the Canned Fruits Board was set up. I was seconded to that sub-committee. The sub-committee reported last October, and its proposal was considered at the January meeting of the Canned Fruits Board. Although a majority of the members of the Board apparently agreed with the principles of the scheme, which are similar to those in operation in a number of primary industries, the Board was not able to agree completely on a basis of reform for itself or for its better control of the industry. Growers are shocked because of the vulnerable financial position in which they will be forced to continue because of this failure to act. They are talking about possible government intervention to sort out the industry unless the Board accepts its responsibility to work for all the industry rather than for the short term considerations of each of its members. I am presently discussing this situation with the Minister. I hope that some action will be taken in time for it to be effective during the 1 978-79 season. 
I do not have time to talk about all the other important areas of government policy which affect rural people, such as the 2 per cent of personal income tax which will go to local government, rural roads, rural health initiatives, small business, fuel equalisation, salinity problems of the Murray system, telephone charges, the welcome announcement of the abolition of death duties, drought assistance policy, the Tokyo round of trade and access for agricultural products to other markets, the Australian Rural Bank or the young farmer establishment scheme. I hope at a later date to speak in some detail on the new special settlement scheme in New Zealand, which is its equivalent to the young farmer establishment scheme which we promised in our 1975 election policy to introduce and in relation to which a considerable amount of work has been done in the Rural Committee and in the departments. 
I simply report that from speaking to officials at the head office and regional office level and from visiting a farm or two with young farmers recently settled the New Zealand scheme is working well although in a limited way. It is working as they wish it to be working in a deliberately limited way. About 100 young farmers will be established on properties each year. New Zealand recognises, just as we are beginning to recognise, that if young people are to enter agriculture they must receive some form of special assistance because of the great capital demands in establishing a farm. We want to have farmers in the industry who have the technical ability, the willingness to work and to innovate and the ability to continue operating with dynamic agricultural methods rather than those who just enter the industry because of some inheritance or because their parents happen to be wealthy professional people who live in a nearby capital city. I believe that the New Zealand scheme is working well. I hope that, before this Parliament is dissolved, our election promise of 1975 will come to fruition so that a young farmer establishment scheme will be operating in this country. 
The Minister for Primary Industry will be aware of the concern of dairy farmers, particularly those in Victoria, over the delay in the announcement of a review of underwriting support for certain dairy products and of the need to either defer or make more equitable the Australian Agricultural Council plan for stage 2 of the national dairy industry. Can the Minister inform the House of any progress in either of these matters? 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
What provision is there under the NEAT scheme or other schemes for the training of the handicapped in rehabilitation centres or sheltered workshops. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 March, 1978: 
1 ) What consideration has been given to the introduction of a new type of aged persons accommodation, sometimes called 'nursing hostels', to fill the gap between nursing homes and hostels. 
Is it considered that this type of accommodation is more deserving of Government support than single unit accommodation. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) Who are the members of the National Committee on Vital Health Statistics, what are their duties and why were they appointed. 
What progress has been made with the collection of national health statistics. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
Has his Department instituted a policy of exchanging senior personnel for a limited period with those of similar status and standard in the private sector or State Government Departments; if not, why not. 
Firstly, I commend the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  who is present during this debate, for instructing the Hospital and Health Services Commission to carry out this study and present this discussion paper on health care financing. Secondly I commend the Minister for the encouragement he has given- this is witnessed now by the debate which is taking place- for public discussion on the general question of health costs, health insurance and the sharing of health costs. He has referred to this matter in various Press releases. He has said that he wants the public genuinely and as much as possible to seriously consider the important question of increasing health costs. I also commend  Dr Sax.  This study was his last job as  chairman  of the now disbanded Hospital and Health Services Commission. I wish him well with the new social welfare policy secretariat. The Minister in a Press release and in a statement accompanying the tabling of this discussion paper refers to the question of accelerating health costs. In a Press statement of 7 March the Minister said: 
A significant drop in the rate of increase in health costs has occurred since 1 October 1976 which is a direct result of the Government's modifications to the health insurance system. Therefore, the Government's policies are working, but more needs to be done to curb the continuing overall increase in the costs of health care. The figures show a preliminary estimate of total national health expenditure in 1976-77 as $6,254m compared with $5,224m in 1975-76 and $4, 109m in 1974-75. This represents an increase in 1976-77 of 19.7 per cent over expenditure the previous year compared with an increase of 36.6 per cent in 1974-75 and 27.1 per cent in 1975-76. A comparison of the proportion of the  gross  domestic product represented by the total health expenditure over the last four years illustrates the point. 
In 1973-74, the percentage of GDP was 5.92 per cent. In 1974-75, the percentage was 6.83 percent. In 1975-76, the percentage of GDP was 7.38 per cent. In 1976-77, the percentage of GDP was 7.67 per cent. 
In examining those figures we find the proportion of Gross Domestic Product increased by 15.4 per cent in 1974-75 over the previous year. 
In 1975-76, the increase was 8.1 per cent while last year, the increase dropped dramatically to 3.9 per cent. 
He then details some of the measures which the Government has taken to reduce this acceleration in health care costs. In the same Press release he refers to measures taken: 
To curb abuses of the system by both doctors and patients through the use of unnecessary services, particularly pathology services; to end the open-ended nature of the Commonwealth financial commitment to the States under the original hospital cost-sharing arrangements; to restore the competitive position of private hospitals by ensuring that public hospital charges were raised to more realistic levels; to ensure that benefits are no longer paid to relieve governments, public authorities and employees of costs that would, but for Medibank, have been borne by them; to legislate so that insurers accept their responsibility in workers compensation and third party insurance cases; to introduce major improvements to the Nursing Home Benefits Scheme to give financial security to all patients and share the financial load with the private health funds. 
In the statement accompanying the presentation of this discussion paper, the Minister again referred to these issues. He makes the point: 
This Discussion Paper demonstrates that the causes - 
That is, for the escalation in health costs:  . . are varied and interrelated. The trend towards more and more of the nation's resources being devoted to health care is consistent with the trend in almost all developed countries of the world. However, there is no reason for complacency in Australia. 
There is no reason for complacency simply because we are going the same way as other nations and are experiencing the same problems that face them. 
In the discussion paper and the many other papers that have been presented in the recent past on this problem of accelerating health care costs, the point is made that this is a universal problem. People's expectations run ahead of the ability of government or of themselves as private individuals to pay for the technology- the increasing specialisation- of a modern health care system. This is understandable to a certain extent because of the logical fear of ill health that any person can hold and the belief that if he or she can get the best that is available in the world it should be obtained at all costs. The point is made by various people that some form of rationing is essential. In the extremes, we have, first, the capitalist form of rationing, which means that certain people cannot afford to pay for all the necessary health care; therefore the total percentage of gross domestic product attributable to health is kept down. The other extreme is the socialist answer which, in its severest form, means simply that the overall percentage of the GDP attributable to health costs is restricted and the system is allowed to ration itself. The result is the same, in the sense that there is some restriction on entry to and use of the health system. As I see it, in Australia we have tried to steer a middle course between these two extremes. 
Canada is probably the best example of another country trying to steer the same course as we are trying to steer. Canada ran into this problem a few years ahead of us and at the present time is endeavouring to impose some partial restrictions or disincentives to try to restrict the acceleration in health care costs and is doing so in the same way as we are thinking of taking some of these steps at present. We have the dilemma of people having a contradictory view: On the one hand they say that more should be done for them with health care costs but somehow or other it is not they as taxpayers or individuals who should pay; it is somebody else who should pay. To a certain extent, that attitude was sustainable in relation to government generally in the 1 950s and the 1 960s, up to the time of the decision by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries- OPEC- that because of increasing productivity or affluence in most Western nations, it was possible to have a bit both ways. Government expenditure on a whole range of services, including health, could be increased but the individual was still left with a real increase each year in the level of disposable income. Those days are past. 
Health is not the only area of government expenditure in which we must face up to this new situation. I would suggest that equally, those responsible for education expenditure should be called upon to accept a greater degree of accountability for the increasing percentage of government expenditure that is required in that area, particularly when one looks at the new demographic projections which reveal that our population is not increasing at the rate at which it was suggested a few years ago it would increase. A whole range of recommendations in the health and education areas are no longer appropriate or valid as a result of the slower growth in our population. 
A further question concerns people becoming dependent on government to solve all of their problems. Government cannot solve all of the problems that people face. There is a patientconsumer responsibility just as there is a government responsibility. A further responsibility rests upon those engaged in the health care profession.  Dr Sax  refers to this aspect in dealing with cost sharing by patients. Really both sides of the Parliament to a certain degree accept this point. He states: 
The questions that remain to be settled are not whether or not patients should pay a share of the costs, but how much of them they should pay and whether or not everybody should pay the same charges. 
In other words, there is some degree of agreement between the two sides; the question is: To what degree should the patient bear this charge both in relation to responsibility to him as an individual and as a disincentive to unnecessary health care usage by him. 
In some recommendations- not necessarily from  Dr Sax  but others that are available at the moment- the question of patient co-sharing of costs relates not just to medical costs but also to hospitalisation costs. In other words, the argu-ment is that there should not be a complete form of insurance for those who can afford to pay for their hospital charges. There appears to be agreement with one of the recommendations by  Dr Sax,  which is supported by the submissions of the Voluntary Health Insurance Association, against the use of front end deductibles for the purpose of patient responsibility. They both question whether that would achieve its desired end.  Dr Sax  refers to the point in this fashion: 
 Deductible ' may either be a sum of money which must be paid during any period of time before the insurer will cover all or pan of the balance or it may be the costs of a particular number of specified services. 
He goes on to make the point that if we have only a small deductible, such as $50 to $ 100 each year, really that will have no great effect on hospital expenses. It is hospital expenses which make up the largest percentage of total health care expenses in this country. 
However, if the figure is far higher than $50 to $100-say, $400 or $500-the likely result is that it would have a significant effect but the action would be socially unjust. The amount involved might be high enough to deter those who would be seeking advice. There does appear to be some agreement from some areas that, although there should be a greater degree of patient responsibility in payment for a percentage of health care costs, the argument in relation to the front end deductible proposal is not the right one. Really, the responsibility must go beyond the patient. 
I believe that the laws of supply and demand are reversed in the medical or health care situation. The closest anology might be drawn with Parkinson's law on the bureaucracy. I cannot remember the quotation exactly, but it really boils down to the demand increasing to meet the supply; in other words, if a certain number of hospital beds are available they will be filled and, if there are a certain number of doctors, those doctors will see that patients continue to return often enough to ensure that they have adequate income. A point is made on this aspect in relation to the supply of doctors in Australia and the answer is the same that Canada seems to have come to with respect to the supply of and the demand on doctors. 
A further question arises in relation to what happens once the patient gets into the system. He goes to his GP and, from that point, the responsibility is largely out of his hands. He believes that he must do what is right as recommended for his health. The responsibility is then transferred to the specialist and also to the hospital in relation to its admission policy, the length of the patient's stay, and, among other things, the tests to be carried out while the patient is there. The question of trying to achieve responsibility in seeking to limit increasing health care costs rests to a large extent on those in the health care profession. I do not believe that those in that profession have accepted that degree of responsibility to this stage. 
Another question to be considered is hospital efficiency. One action that the government has taken is to modify the 50 per cent proportion of hospital costs that it pays in common with the States. My understanding is that the States have not sorted out new forms of budgeting arrangements which encourage incentive and efficiency at the individual hospital level. To the credit of the present Minister for Health, since becoming Minister he has pushed ahead with the accreditation of hospitals, with utilisation review and peer review generally, which at present rests with the Australian Medical Association, to come back to the Minister in some acceptable form. I repeat the point that there is a great responsibility on those in the system to accept accountability. I make the point that I think would be correct for any modern government in the Western world that where a group or a profession is given the chance to do something about self-regulation and accountability it is very wise to accept that which is given to it otherwise government will do that for it. I believe there is a clear message in what the Minister has put to the profession at the present time, because the profession itself has to accept that it has not some sort of open-ended arrangement with a distant government. The same people who make use of the system talk in the same breath about paying too much tax or, as we see from time to time under the present arrangements, an increasing temptation within the profession to become involved in corruption. 
Many suggestions have been put forward in the Sax paper. Some of them are short term, such as the question of updating patient payments with safeguards of course for those people who are not in a position to pay. I for one believe we must have some son of universal base for our health insurance system. There is also the question of overall budget restrictions, but really we must look at the long-term effects which to me, particularly in the hospital area, offer a greater possibility of more effective action, accreditation utilisation review incentive budgeting and so forth. To me it is essential that in our desire to restrict increasing public expenditure on health care we do not do this just by transferring the costs from the public sector to the private sector. We have to do something that is constructive and have a structure that will contain overall costs. This will take time and will take the co-operation of government, the professions and the patients themselves. We are hindered by a lack of hard statistics in many of the crucial areas. 
Any review of health insurance which follows the Sax paper- the Government's concern in this area is obvious- should be considered and staged so that the right decisions are made at the appropriate time. I believe the Australian public is rather confused at the present time because of the rapid changes that have taken place in health care over the last seven years. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) What progress is being made with the development of a vaccine for bluetongue disease. 
Are separate vaccines being developed for each of the strains. 
Where and how will the vaccines be tested. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
How and where will most of the remaining $6.2m provided in the Budget for decentralisation assistance and intended for general decentralisation be spent. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 7 March 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to the recently introduced New Zealand 'Vendor Mortgage Scheme', whereby encouragement is given to vendors to retain a financial interest in their property after sale and so assist young farmers to purchase their first farm. 
) If so, will he consider the inclusion of this provision in the proposed farm mortgage insurance scheme. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. The Minister would be aware of the widespread concern in rural areas about loss of income and violation of the principle of freedom to export as a result of the ban imposed by the Australasian Meat Industry Employees Union on live sheep exports. What is the present situation? What would be the financial import of the three-to-one ratio that the AMIEU is advocating? What can the Government do to reassure rural people that the law will prevail? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) When will the Australian Bureau of Statistics health survey of 15,000 households be completed and the results published. 
How will this information be of value to the Government for health policy planning and to the National Committee on Vital Health Satisfies. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) What progress has been made with the implementation of a voluntary code for the regulation of alcohol advertising. 
What problems still remain and when it is anticipated that the self-regulatory code will be introduced. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 14 March 1978: 
What is the present position of a 1 970 loan to the SPC cannery referred to on page 24 of the  Rural Industry Information Papers. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 14 March 1 978: 
What is the present position of the 1972 cannery loans referred to on page 24 of the  Rural Industry Information Papers. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 1 4 March 1978: 
What is the present position of the 1976 fruit cannery loans referred to on page 25 of the  Rural Industry Information Papers. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 15 March 1978: 
What is the present position of a 1971 Commonwealth/ State loan granted to the Letona, Riverland and Jon canneries and referred to on page 24 of the August 1977 edition of  Rural Industry Information Papers. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 7 March 1 978: 
1 ) What action is the Government taking to prevent the implementation of a Canadian Tariff Board report recommending significantly increased protection for locally produced fresh and processed fruit and vegetables. 
Is he able to say whether the report, if implemented, would abolish the Commonwealth preference presently enjoyed by Australian fruit exporters, and give the market for canned fruit to the Californians. 
What is the present level of exports of the various types of fruit and vegetables likely to be affected, and what percentage are they of total Australian exports admitted to Canada under Commonwealth preference. 
Has any consideration been given to the abrogation of the bilateral trade agreement. 
-It was originally my intention to restrict myself to the narrow limits of the Bill and to talk about pears and their market prospects but after the intervention by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  a few points have to be made. The honourable member for Hughes made certain points about the Labor Government in relation to the apple and pear industry. I remind him of three things. The first is that one of the most significant factors in the downturn in the economic viability of both the fresh apple and fresh pear industries was the removal of the sales tax concession by the Labor Government as a result of the infamous Coombs report. This significantly reduced the uptake of fruit juice in carbonated beverages in this country. If the Australian Labor Party wants to talk about what it has done for the apple and pear industries it should start at that point. 
Secondly, I turn to the stabilisation scheme which was the subject of an Industries Assistance Commission report. The IAC recommended the phasing out of the stabilisation scheme. The Government to its credit has continued it. However, it took a long time for Labor to show any enthusiasm for the continuation of the apple and pear stabilisation scheme. Thirdly, the tree pull scheme, or the fruit growing reconstruction scheme as it was called, was introduced by the McMahon Government in 1971-72. This was correctly pointed out by the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman).  In my area the 1972 election was called the 'rotten fruit election'. The then honourable member for Riverina,  Mr Grassby,  campaigned throughout my electorate and other fruit growing electorates throughout Australia saying what wonderful things Labor, when it came to power, would do for the fruit industry, such as significantly increasing the means test concessions so that it would be far easier for growers to obtain money under the tree pull scheme. But what happened? Labor made no alteration to the means test arrangement under the tree pull scheme. In fact, it remained until we were returned to office for us to once again increase the concessional arrangements and give some degree of justice to those people in difficult circumstances in the industry. 
I refer now to the other half of this legislation, the half concerning pears, because as is usual in debates of this nature, particularly with Tasmanian members of Parliament and to a certain extent my friends the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  and the honourable member for Calare  (Mr MacKenzie),  the subject has been apples. That is about all we have heard mentioned so far in this debate although I make no criticism of that. I remind people that the pear sector of the industry in this country is overwhelmingly in the Goulburn Valley, probably to a greater degree than the apple sector is dominated by Tasmania. The outlook for pears, particularly for export, is healthier on a long term basis, or it appears more commercially viable, than is the outlook for apples. 
I refer now to the August 1977 edition, the most recent, of the Rural Industry Information Papers which gives figures to support this claim. It is evident when looking at the pay-in and payout arrangements under the stabilisation scheme that payments out of the fund by the Government have been far greater to apple growers than to pear growers and that pay-ins from growers relative to the size of the industries have been greater from pear growers than from apple growers. For example, payments to apple growers for the six years from 1971 to 1976 inclusive amount to more than $20m, which includes the supplementary CommonwealthState assistance. The Commonwealth's share of that supplementary assistance was $3m, leaving a fund payment of $ 1 7m. Payments into the fund by apple growers amounted to $51,000. That indicates the degree of support which the Government has given to this most important industry through the stabilisation scheme. However, payments out to pear growers during the same period amounted to $ 1.3 m while payments into the fund by pear growers amounted to $121,000. 
The honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  referred to some of the rosy prospects for the export market this year. My understanding of the projection for the current export season is that it is one of the most optimistic for a number of years. With regard to apple exports, Europe is still of great significance and I understand that prices perhaps will be not as good as they were last year but, nevertheless, satisfactory and commercial. I refer now briefly to an article dealing with apples and pears in the 23 March edition of  Agra Europe,  the most recent edition available in the Parliamentary Library.  Agra Europe  probably is the most reliable, quick source of international agricultural information. An article entitled 'EEC expects increased deliveries of southern hemisphere apples' states: 
There were fewer apples in store in the EEC on March 1 this year than on the same date in any year since 1973. The quantity was 953,000 tonnes which was 16 per cent below 1 977 's level and 28 per cent below the level in 1 976. 
Further on it states: 
Stocks and imports together are likely to give total EEC supplies of around 1.34m tonnes, which would be 4 per cent less than sales in 1977. On this basis March-July prices can be forecast at 5- 10 per cent above year earlier level. A comparison can be made with the early summer of 1975 when 1.34m tonnes had been sold; this year's prices should be roughly equal to prices then plus 13 percent for inflation. 
The pear industry is now selling about half its exports to the South East Asian region, and good sales to the United States of America have been reported. So once again returns are expected to be satisfactory for the fresh export pear sector. The Bill, although it is a minor administrative Bill, is a good example of useful and constructive legislation which, according to a grower member of the Apple and Pear Corporation with whom I discussed it, will be of considerable value to the Corporation. Presently, the Corporation has the power to borrow only ibr the promotion of fruit traded by itself, but the promotion activities of the Corporation are on behalf of others who actually market the fruit. The promotion period for the domestic market is from March to July, and for the export market it is from May to July. As the experience of 1 977 revealed, most of the Corporation 's income is received after this promotion period. Therefore, there is a serious but short term cash liquidity problem facing the Corporation. I am advised by a Corporation member that the Corporation cannot use even bank overdrafts for this purpose- hence, this legislation. 
To conclude, I refer to two points relating to the promotion activities of the Corporation. Firstly, a public relations officer has been recently appointed to co-ordinate the promotion and advertising activities of the Corporation to obtain the maximum cost-benefit. Secondly, the corporation, along with the Australian Canned 
Fruits Board and possibly other bodies, is financially assisting a three-year project at Monash University researching the importance of fibre in a healthy diet. There appears to be an increasing awareness of the effect of lack of fibre in today's diet. Apples and pears are two of the most natural and pleasant ways of providing fibre. I quote from two recent newspaper statements on the importance of fibre in diet, the awareness of it and the importance of apples and pears, and fruit and vegetables generally in the provision of that fibre. An article entitled 'Lack of cereal fibre "linked" to heart disease' which appeared in the  Canberra Times on  20 March, stated: 
There is a definite link between lack of cereal fibre in people's diets and heart disease, according to a recent British survey. 
This indicated bread was now the main dietary question relevant to heart disease, the man who conducted the survey, Professor J. Morris, said. 
Professor Morris, professor of community health at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, was speaking on the ABC's Science Show, broadcast on Saturday. 
He said the standard white loaf contained only a third of the cereal fibre of wholemeal bread and a half that of brown bread. 
The survey showed no such association between heart disease and fibre from other sources such as fruit and vegetables like peas, beans and nuts, Professor Morris said. 
The survey had investigated 337 people over a period of 10 to 20 years. 
In last Thursday's Melbourne  Age  an article appears under the heading: 'A town goes corny for medical research'. The article states: 
The small town of Strathalbyn in the Adelaide hills is to be the centre of one of the biggest and most important health studies ever undertaken in Australia. 
During the next six months the eating habits of the 1701 townspeople will come under close scrutiny by a medical research team representing the Gastroenterology Society of Australia- specialist doctors who study the stomach and intestine and their diseases. 
The object of the project- regarded as a pilot study which may untimately influence the health of Australians- is to encourage people in Strathalbyn to restore fibre to their diet. 
There is growing concern that lack of fibre in the dietbran, wholemeal bread, leafy vegetables and fruit- has become one of the major health hazards of western civilisation', project co-ordinator  Dr R.  L. Willing said yesterday. 
The report goes on in similar terms. The point is that the Apple and Pear Corporation together with the Canned Fruits Board has recognised the significance of dietary health and fresh and canned fruit and vegetables. Hence one can see the importance of continuing the promotion activities undertaken by the Corporation and the necessity and the good sense in this legislation being passed today. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Has Cabinet made a decision as to whether the Australian Agricultural Council decision on stage 2 of the national dairy plan will be accepted or deferred, or whether some other more equitable plan for the manufacturing sector of the dairy industry will be negotiated? 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 8 March 1978: 
What is the cost of underwriting support for the dairy industry for each product by (a) the Commonwealth and (b) each State Government in each of the years (i) 1 975-76 and (ii) 1976-77 and what is the estimated cost for 1977-78. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
Does his Department have any officers with special qualifications in medical rehabilitation. 
) What is the role of his Department in medical rehabilitation, and what is being achieved. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
What decisions have the 1 3 members of the Antarctica Treaty Organisation made on the exploitation and /or conservation of the natural resources in the Antarctic, particularly in respect of oil exploration and the harvesting of krill. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 7 March 1978: 
As soon as the present round of multilateral trade negotiations in Geneva on wheat, beef and dairy products are concluded, will he detail the current situation and the progress made. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 15 March 1978: 
1 ) When will the draft report of the Industries Assistance Commission on the inquiry into vegetable oils be published. 
Will fresh evidence concerning the ability of margarine manufacturers to reduce prices dramatically be admissable because of the significant bearing it must have on the final report. 
asked the Minister of Health, upon notice, on 7 April 1 978. 
What is he doing to overcome the criticism of his Department that it lacks an adequate number of veterinary officers to administer completely animal quarantine and the increased responsibility for animal imports because of the Cocos Island quarantine station. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 7 April 1978. 
What procedures have been established or will be es tablished to determine the priority of use of the Cocos Island quarantine station in relation to breeds, types of animals and individual breeders who will be wanting to import these animals. 
From which countries will animals be permitted to be imported before the Geelong Animal Health Laboratory will be available for back-up testing. 
-The Minister for Primary Industry will recall that in answer to a question asked yesterday on a possible beef sale to Russia he indicated that if a subsidy were necessary to solve the current short-term problem facing the industry he preferred to direct it to the Australian producer rather than to the Russian consumer. That being so, will the Government give urgent consideration to the alternative proposal of the Kellogg rural adjustment unit workshop on beef marketing, namely, that a special slaughter subsidy be introduced in association with special assistance for beef cattle producers trapped in the bluetongue zone of northern Australia? 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 7 April 1 978: 
Has his Department received any complaints about alleged dumping of New Zealand peas and beans which is contrary to the spirit of NAFTA and the special Pea and Bean Panel; if so, what action has been taken? 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 1 April 1978: 
1 ) Is the Minister, in her capacity as Minister in charge of the Office of Child Care, responsible for Commonwealth 
Government support for, and participation in, next year's 'Year of the Child', if not, which Department has the responsibility. 
) What other Government departments are involved. 
What opportunity do voluntary organisations have to make submissions for consideration by the Minister and the Government. 
Will any financial support for the promotion of the ' Year of the Child ' be available to voluntary organisations. 
5 ) What is the anticipated date of a detailed announcement of Australia 's participation in this international event. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 7 April 1978: 
1 ) What arrangements have been made or will be made to ensure the satisfactory and efficient management of the Cocos Island quarantine station. 
) What role in the management and policy decisions for that station will his Department and the Bureau of Animal Health be allocated. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 7 April 1 978: 
Has his Department received any complaints about alleged dumping of New Zealand peas and beans which is contrary to the spirit of NAFTA and the special Pea and Bean Panel; if so, what action has been taken. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 10 May 1978: 
1 ) How do the percentages of price increases approved for Commonwealth Serum Laboratories compare with the industry average for (a) 1976 and (b) 1977. 
If the CSL percentage is higher than the industry average, what is the difference and how can it be explained. 
Is the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware of the problems being created for Community Youth Support Scheme administrators by the long delay in the introduction of the 12-month approval period, first announced by the Minister on 23 March this year? In particular, what can be done to assist the large number of CYSS groups in Victoria that responded to the Minister's announcement by making submissions for a 12-month period beginning 1 July? Is he aware that they have all been advised that submissions for funding on a six-month basis only will be accepted and that, unless all these submissions are approved at the State committee meeting on 9 June, their funding will lapse? Can the Minister reassure these groups that funds will not be allowed to lapse and that 12-month funding will be introduced as soon as possible? 
-The attitude of the Opposition as expressed by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  and by the amendment he has moved shows the complete hypocrisy of the Labor Party on rural credit. When the Labor Party was in government- it was in government for three years- it saw no need at any time to increase the rural credit facilities for primary industry. The Labor Party said there was no need. After seeing no need for an increase in rural credit facilities when they were in government, the Labor Party is now critical of anything we try to do to provide this essential need of a better and more specialised credit facility. The amendment provides for more primary producer representatives on the board of the Primary Industry Bank. When the Labor Party was in power, for the first time in the history of any Federal government it reduced the number of primary industry representatives on all the statutory marketing boards which it revised. 
Whilst the Labor Party is saying that the Government is not providing enough say for primary producers, when it was in government it did exactly that; it reduced the number of primary producer representatives. Once again this shows the Labor Party's completely hypocritical approach to rural industry. The Labor Party also says that long term lending is of no great value. The great lack in rural credit in this country is that there is no ability to borrow money for long periods in order to provide the repayment arrangements necessary for long term investment in the purchase and the paying off of a farm. Seven years is the average period. If one looks at what money can be borrowed over seven years through overdraft or short term rates and at the interest rates which would be charged if money were to be borrowed for 25 to 30 years, as envisaged by this legislation, one notes the interest rate concession. But that still misses the critical point. If a person borrows a certain amount of money over 25 years, which will be possible with this Bank, one thing becomes readily apparent, the annual repayment schedule is halved when compared with repayments on a seven year loan. This is a critical factor in two ways. The first important point relates to the assessment that is made of the ability of the borrower to repay a loan. That influences the decision in favour of the person receiving the loan. The second important point is that by halving the effective annual repayment limit the borrower is left with more money, more disposable income, as well as being able to repay the loan in principal and interest. One of the big problems for rural people at present is their inability to pay and service their credit commitments and to have money on which to live at the same time. I believe that rural Australians will take more notice of the Labor Party when it takes a genuine interest in the credit problems of rural Australia rather than displaying the contradictory and hypocritical interest that it has shown here today. 
The Primary Industry Bank Amendment Bill 1978, as indicated by the honourable member for Gellibrand, amends the Australian Rural Bank Act 1977 in two ways. The most obvious is to change the name of the Australian Rural Bank to that of the Primary Industry Bank of Australia. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in his second reading speech and  Mr Ives  at the Rural Press Club luncheon yesterday both indicated that satisfactory progress is being made to meet the mid-year starting point for the Bank. The second reading speech also referred to some of the things which are necessary to be done before the Bank is actually in operation. The Bank board has yet to be named. I congratulate the Minister and the Government for appointing  Mr Walter  Ives, retiring head of the Department of Primary Industry, as  Chairman  of the Bank board. I believe his appointment as  Chairman  will do much to give credit to the new institution and assist it through the difficult formative period. I believe that two primary industry representatives are close to being named by the responsible Minister. 
The second reading speech goes on to point out that aspects of the Bank's operations- its lending policies, interest rates and so on- will not be determined until after the Board has been established and relevant consultations have been held with the Government. The Minister went on to say: 
The precise range and types of lenders, in addition to the participating banks, to be granted access to the re-financing facilities of the Bank have also not yet been determined but I re-affirm that it is the Government's intention that there be wide participation. In particular, it is envisaged that the Commonwealth Development Bank of Australia will be able to re-finance loans to primary producers through the new Bank. 
As I said earlier, I believe that  Mr Ives'  comments at the Rural Press Club luncheon indicate that we are moving towards commencement in the middle of the year. 
The board of the Bank will have a difficult task. Firstly, the creation of a completely new financial institution is in itself difficult. Secondly, the concept of the Bank has been greeted by considerable cynicism in the bush. It is believed by some that the trading banks have beaten the Government. I do not agree with that view, but it does mean that the board of the Bank will have to demonstrate, and very visibly demonstrate, that that is not the case. In the first place, it will have to prove that more credit will be provided and that there will not be simply a transfer of trading bank risks to the new Bank. In addition, the assessment of credit-worthiness should be more in line with the length of the loan than is the case under the present criteria used by bank managers. Here we do have the accountability or the honesty mechanism of the Commonwealth Development Bank and other institutions acting as agents as well as the traditional trading banks. If a person is in trouble with his own bank he has somewhere else to go. 
The third point is that substantial amounts of capital for long-term lending should be marshalled, and marshalled quickly, so that the Bank can be shown to be effective. Fourthly, the interest rate must be shown to be lower than would be the case with present lending for the same term, and I emphasise that point. Finally, the Parliament must accept the responsibility of ensuring that the Bank, meaning the Board and the agents but principally the trading banks, is seen at the grass roots level to be fulfilling the purpose for which it was established. Rural members of parliament have a particular responsibility to assess the Bank as it progresses. If that progress is not considered to be satisfactory and is not in line with the stated purposes, then it is up to this Parliament to ensure that the legislation and the policy is changed. 
The Primary Industry Bank is only part of a general rural credit policy being developed by this Government. In the 1975 policy speech it was announced that the Government intended to proceed with the Young Farmer Establishment Scheme. Various ideas are being floated at the present time concerning mortgage guarantee schemes and variable mortgage repayment arrangements. The recently released Industries Assistance Commission report on rural income fluctuations gives support to the concept of variable mortgage repayments. Incidentally, the New Zealanders are also very interested in this concept. Of course, New Zealand has gone further than Australia with rural credit facilities and I intend to talk about that a little later. When dealing with our overall rural credit policy I should also make reference to the rural adjustment program, which is a special rural credit faculty, firstly, for carry-on loans, and, secondly, for adjustments either for debt or farm size. 
New Zealand provides a good comparison with Australia because it has a similar farm situation, but New Zealand has a very well developed special rural credit system. This has been brought about partly by the less significant role played by the trading banks in that country and a less developed commercial credit market, and partly, I believe, by an earlier recognition by government of the special credit needs of agriculture. I am pleased that the Government in Australia is recognising the need for special credit facilities, not only through a primary industry bank but across a range of rural credit arrangements in Australia. For example, New Zealand has had a rural bank by name since 1972. It has actually had a rural bank through the State Advances Corporation since 1 898. The 1977 New Zealand Budget provided for the expenditure of $ 163m through the Rural Bank in that country this financial year. That $ 163 m will have a number of inputs. One-third of the money will come from revolving funds through the ongoing nature of the bank. The Government will make special grants for the livestock incentive scheme and will make other special arrangements. It will also be putting in money to subsidise the interest rate through the Rural Bank. Borrowings will be made by the Rural Bank from post office savings accounts for re-lending to farmers. 
There are many aspects of lending through the Rural Bank in New Zealand. The standard settlement scheme is the equivalent of our Primary Industry Bank. The special settlement scheme is the equivalent of our proposed young farmers scheme. There is the farm development scheme which one could say comes closest to one aspect of our rural adjustment scheme. The livestock incentive scheme is a part of the New Zealand Government's policy to increase livestock production, one that we do not have here. There is a whole range of other schemes covering sharefarmers, suspensory loans and farm workers, but standard settlement is the closest comparison. In New Zealand standard settlement settles about 1,000 farmers a year on their first farm- approximately one-third of first farm purchases in that country. Preference is given to those who show farm management skills but are unable to acquire a farm or additional land from their own ordinary commercial credit or family resources. Hence lessees, sharefarmers, managers, second and subsequent sons on family farms, et cetera, have preference. Loans of up to $50,000 are provided for a dairy farm and up to $70,000 for a grazing property, at  Vh  per cent interest, with a repayment period of up to 25 years. I would like to see our Primary Industry Bank match that interest rate. New Zealand's inflation rate is higher than ours and its interest rates should therefore also be higher. 
In spite of the well developed Rural Bank and the standard settlement scheme, the New Zealand Government has found it necessary to establish a special settlement scheme of a more generous nature to ensure that young people are given a chance to become farmers in sufficient numbers for the future. The special settlement scheme was introduced in October 1976, and I studied it in January 1977 and again in February of this year at the completion of 12 months' operation. There are three special aspects of the special settlement or young farmers scheme in comparison with the standard settlement or Rural Bank scheme. Firstly, higher loans are provided- up to $90,000 for a dairy farm and $150,000 for a grazing property. Consequently, there is a lower equity requirement from the purchaser of the property, theoretically as low as 15 per cent. There is effectively a cheaper interest rate of about2 per cent by comparison with the standard scheme. Finally, it is a very selective and restrictive scheme, and I think the best comparison in Australia would be the single unit soldier settlement arrangements made after the Second World War and the very limited civilian scheme operating in South Australia. The aim is to settle about 100 young farmers a year, and in fact in the first year of operation 97 were settled. 
The Bank in New Zealand is adopting a very cautious approach, partly to prove that it can be done, and its selection process therefore has to be very good. With the special concessional rates attached to the scheme, if too many people had the opportunity to buy land the price of land would be affected, which would certainly be counter-productive to the whole concept of land settlement. The loan percentage provided relative to total farm costs works out at below 8.5 per cent because of the real problem of repayment, even though the scheme is very attractive. For the first year the average for dairy farmers was 62 per cent and for sheep or grazing properties it was 72 per cent. The loans advanced were over $9m in the first year. Under the scheme the Bank is looking for a successful sharefarmer rather than a farmer's son. In fact, the farmer's son is restricted until all the other applications have been considered. The maximum age for application is 40 years and the average age of successful applicants is 32, but there appears to be a tendency to move a little towards the 40 years of age group. I think that the slightly older age group is due to the fact that a farmer's equity must be more than 15 per cent for him to have the chance of a repayment schedule. 
The sheep special settlement schemes, because they usually involve larger amounts, are generally more closely supervised by the Bank, and it is quite common to have special budgetary control exercised by the Rural Bank. In an area that I visited around Hamilton, the centre of the dairying industry in New Zealand, applications for a special settlement loan open in November, about a month after most dairy farms to be sold are put on the market for delivery in the following May and June. For both the standard settlement and the special settlement schemes auction sales are not permitted; sales must be private. The Bank then goes through the proposals, the selection process, and the decisions are usually announced by the end of January. I want to reemphasise, though, that even in New Zealand the majority of loans to young farmers or, if one likes, first farm purchasers are made through the standard settlement or the Rural Bank scheme. 
In New Zealand at present farm development still has a higher priority with the Rural Bank than farm purchases, because of that Government's policy of increasing livestock production. In the 1977 New Zealand Budget that I mentioned there were some other innovations in the rural credit area. A vendor mortgage scheme was introduced, which provided taxation concessions or inducements to encourage people selling properties to leave a certain amount of investment in the property and thus allow a better opportunity for young people to purchase the property and to be able to repay the loans. The New Zealand authorities, as I said, are studying a variable mortgage scheme, and I would hope that the board of the Primary Industry Bank, when it is established in Australia, will also closely study the advantages of a variable repayments system, which means that the client would pay less at the beginning of the period, because of the difficulties in meeting the repayments at that time, and more when, generally, he should be better able to do so. 
As I mentioned, New Zealand also has share milker loans, suspensory loans, farm worker loans, agricultural contractor loans and farm ownership savings accounts. One could go on listing the loans. In fact, the New Zealand authorities put out pamphlets about the types of credit facilities available. Perhaps of interest to us in another area is the fact that the New Zealand Government provided in this 1977 Budget also a whole new range of loan provisions to encourage the development of the fishing industry in that country. That is something we should and I hope will be doing in this country. Also New Zealand promotes its schemes very well. I would hope that when the Primary Industry Bank is established it will produce the necessary, well presented, clear and simple but accurate pamphlets on the purpose of the Bank, the way to go about obtaining a loan, and so forth. 
We still have a long way to go to reach the same level as the developed, comprehensive, special rural credit policy of New Zealand, but the introduction of the Primary Industry Bank is the major pivot of any rural credit policy. I am glad that at last we are introducing this Bank. I welcome its introduction. Its board particularly has a challenge to meet, and I hope it will be up to meeting that challenge so that the concept of the Bank and its purpose will be fulfilled and fulfilled to the advantage of rural people. 
Question put- 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Willis's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 10 May 1978: 
What advisory or consultative committees has the Minister established or continued which include members of parliament. 
Which members and senators are included on these committees. 
asked the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 10 May 1978: 
Has the Australian Bureau of Statistics stopped sending a duplicate copy of the annual farm census form. 
If so, will he instruct the Bureau to include a duplicate copy with next year's form as the increased accuracy resulting from this reference will be of greater cost/benefit value than the saving gained by not sending it. 
-My grievance today concerns the financial plight of many primary producers, with the present gap in the income security system for all self-employed people in Australia. In theory there is no income security net whatever for self-employed small business people. There is for farmers, in theory, because of the temporary alterations to the eligibility criteria of May 1976 for unemployment benefit and the introduction of household support in January 1977. Further credence is given to the distinction between these two groups of self-employed people by the recent reply of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  to the question on notice by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  in which he asked for details of how many small businesses and farmers became bankrupt or made arrangements with creditors or were sent into liquidation during certain recent periods. 
The figures are far more significant for small businesses than they are for farmers. Of course, that overlooks the difference in the ratio of fixed capital and the different way in which liquidity pressures develop for farmers from other small business people. To get the real figures one has to ask the number of forced sales required of farmers over the same period. The average farmer, because of the credit situation in relation to mortgages and fixed assets, is required by his banker or somebody else to sell his assets prior to actual bankruptcy. So, once again the situation is misleading. Because of the very limited number of approvals for both unemployment benefit and household support the gap in the income security system is there just as much for farmers as it is for all small business people. 
My plea today, in detail, is for farmers but it is really for all small and self-employed business people. Evidence of the fact that the gap is there comes from recent Bureau of Agricultural Economics documents. Firstly, I shall refer to the BAE draft report on beef price stabilisation of May 1978. It estimates that for the beef industry for 1977-78 the net income for all beef producers in Australia will be $5,200. Also, 64 per cent of beef producers, that is, about 32,000, are estimated to be earning less than $5,000. Of those 32,000, 17,000 will have negative cash incomes in 1977-78. To put it in perspective: On the present income test basis for eligibility for household support or unemployment benefit, eligibility runs out at the time when the net cash income for the 12 months period is equivalent to the weekly payment of unemployment benefit on an annual basis for the same category of person. In other words, for a married person with no dependants it cuts out, following the last six-monthly increase in pension, at $4,461. For a person with two dependants it rises to $5,241. So in other words, in theory, on an income test basis virtually the majority of beef producers in Australia are eligible for household support or unemployment benefit. Those with a zero income- 17,000 of themshould be eligible for a full unemployment benefit or household support arrangement. If one adds to those in the beef industry the many people in the horticulture industry, such as the canned fruit, grape growing, apple industries and certain sectors of the dairying industry, the figure is multiplied. The March edition of the BAE journal states: 
Aggregate farm income in 1977-78 is forecast to decline by 6 per cent to $ 1,900m. If the rate of inflation were assumed to be around 8 per cent in 1977-78, then real income per farm is estimated to fall by 1 1 per cent. 
In other words, the problem is compounded by the continuing decline in real incomes for farmers. So theoretically thousands upon thousands of farmers should be eligible for assistance under these schemes. But what is the position? At the end of March this year, 1 1 1 farmers around Australia were receiving some degree of household support. The maximum amount available under that scheme would be the equivalent of the weekly unemployment benefit, and very few farmers ever receive the maximum amount because of the way in which the income test works. So 1 1 1 farmers are receiving support at a cost of $191,000. If those figures are compared with the figures for the previous 12 months, which was shortly after the introduction of the scheme, it can be seen that there was a substantial increase. But the point that I want to make is that the amount of assistance is still insignificant. 
The situation in relation to the unemployment benefit is, if anything, the opposite. The high point for farmers who received the unemployment benefit was reached in the week ending 6 August 1976, which was soon after the scheme was introduced. The number of farmers receiving the benefit was 2,475. In the week ending 5 August 1 977 the number had fallen to 1 , 1 04. The most recent figures relate to the week ending 17 March 1978, when 869 farmers were receiving part or the whole of the unemployment benefit. For the week ending 18 March 1977, the number receiving the benefit was 796. Why is the number of farmers receiving the unemployment benefit so low compared with the number who could receive it on income test grounds? 
Before I go on to deal with that matter in detail, I say in passing that the income test for selfemployed people, whether they be farmers or other small businessmen, is far more stringent than that applying to wage and salary earners. The reason is that the farmer is assessed on an annual basis whereas all wage and salary earners are assessed on a weekly basis. It means that a seasonal worker, such as a tanker driver, who is stood down from his job or somebody who is put off from his job for a few weeks at the end of the season could earn more than $10,000 during the period in which he works and still be eligible to receive the full unemployment benefit. On the other hand, the farmer is prevented from receiving the unemployment benefit if his annual income is less than half that which that other person is receiving. This is a social injustice in this country. I have submitted to the Government on more than one occasion that in order to bring some equity into the scheme the eligibility provisions for the salary and wage earner should have some regard to an annual income test as well as the weekly test so that account is taken of the large incomes which people can earn while still being eligible to receive the full unemployment benefit. 
I return to the main point of the argument about why so few farmers are receiving the unemployment benefit. The answer lies in the criteria used, which are demonstrably unsuitable for country people. The assessment of household support is carried out by the State rural reconstruction agencies. One becomes eligible for that support only after an application for rural reconstruction assistance has been refused because one's farm has been assessed as being unviable. Then the person involved has to be prepared to leave bis property within three years. Even if that person could sell his property, he may receive less for his farm than would be required to buy a house for his family in the nearest town. 
One can understand the problems of these people. It is the seasonal nature of farming which really makes a farmer eligible to receive the unemployment benefit. Some forms of agriculture fit more readily into this pattern than do others. For example, dairying and fruit growing have a distinct seasonal pattern. Therefore the people involved in those industries can abide by the work test requirement of making themselves available. Hence, in the winter of 1976, 800 fruit and dairy farmers in my area were receiving part of the unemployment benefit. That situation came about, to a certain extent, through the cooperation of senior officials of the Department of Social Security who arranged suitable criteria in relation to the work test and time periods in assessing eligibility. I express my appreciation to those senior officials. The situation in the grazing industries, and the sheep and beef industries, is far more difficult. I could go on to deal with the ideological problems which have developed for the self-employed person. I refer to instances of farmers who, under the work test requirements, are given a job ahead of many other people who are unemployed simply because the assessing officer knows that he will work and that the others will not. 
What has to be done? We have to change the criteria of eligibility for household support so that the affected people will not have to go through the present application and refusal system. In relation to the unemployment benefit, we have to instil a more sympathetic attitude in many officers of the Department of Social Security. I understand that a review is being undertaken by the Government at the present time. I believe that apart from conducting that review we should ask the new social welfare policy secretariat, under  Dr Sax,  as its first and most urgent job as part of an overall review of income security, to look at this great gap which exists in our income security net for all self-employed people and, particularly in this case, for farmers. I make that suggestion because of the great risk which faces the future of farming in this country. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry what reaction he has received to date from the States to Stage 2 of the Government's dairy marketing arrangements and the Government's offer to co-operate with the States to guarantee a return to dairy farmers of 80c per lb for manufacturing milk. If the States will not cooperate, will their alternative and individual offers of assistance, if any, provide a similar guarantee? 
congratulate the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  on this commonsense and generous stage 2 proposal for a national dairy industry in Australia. I believe the Minister has been persistent, constructive and sympathetic to the complex problems of the dairy industry over a very difficult two and a half years since we returned to Government. In those two and a half years I believe he has done more to assist the dairy industry in Australia than any previous Minister for Primary Industry. That belief is reinforced by this proposal that we are debating today. In adopting this constructive line, he has been roundly abused by all sectors of the dairy industry for being constructive and low key. In particular, he has been abused by every State government or State Minister responsible for agriculture because in every case that Minister could not rise above a parochial attitude to the dairy industry. 
If the problems of the dairy industry are to be satisfactorily resolved, this must be done on a national basis. Those people who think it is a simple matter to resolve these complex problems should remember that the dairy industry, along with the deciduous fruit industry, has had to make far greater adjustments following Britain's entry into the European Common Market than any other industry has been called on to make. That goes for any secondary industry and certainly any service industry. I believe those industries have suffered more than they should, but they have achieved remarkable results on their own behalf in that adjustment process. 
I remind honourable members of the position in the dairy industry when this Government regained office in December 1975 /January 1976. The Labor Government had removed the dairy industry bounty. That not only removed the price support mechanism for the dairy industry but it also endangered the future of the voluntary equalisation mechanism because no longer was the bounty there to buttress it. With the removal of that bounty the whole dairy industry was threatened by a failure or breakdown in the domestic pricing arrangements so that the export parity price or, if honourable members like, the worst export price would also become the domestic price- a completely untenable situation which can be laid completely at the door of the Labor Government. 
Give me a moment. I will come to the dairy reconstruction scheme, if the honourable member will give me time. Also when we regained office, the Labor Cabinet had even refused to consider over several months a request by the Australian Dairy Farmers Federation to introduce an underwriting scheme to stop the bottom falling out of the manufacturing sector of the dairy industry because of the collapse in the world price for skim milk powder. When Labor removed the dairy bounty, as the honourable member for Blaxland said, it introduced a dairy reconstruction scheme. One should look at the difference between a reconstruction scheme and a reconstruction scheme plus price support. I remind Labor members that there already was in vogue a reconstruction scheme for the dairy industry when we were in office. It was called the marginal dairy farm scheme. There was nothing new in what Labor did. All that scheme did was to provide some assistance to help people in the adjustment process. 
As the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  reminded the House, part of that reconstruction money was used for the short lived boom in skim milk powder, which only exacerbated the problems of the industry. I remind Labor members that not only is reconstruction continuing for the dairy industry through the rural adjustment scheme, but also have we introduced something which they would not introduce, that is, the special carry on loan provisions for the dairy industry. I do not want to hear any more from them about the great steps they took for dairy reconstruction when they did not do anything more than our Government was previously doing and we are still doing in the adjustment process. They completely removed any price support mechanism. If we said to them that there should not be a basic wage, a minimum wage, in Australia, they would think that was a treasonable thing to say; yet they did exactly the same thing to the dairy industry when they removed the dairy industry bounty. 
Let us look at what happened to prices. In the 1975 season in most factories in Victoria the opening price for butterfat for whole milk was 60c per lb. With the crash in the skim milk powder market it fell to 50c per lb. At that time the ADFF went to the Labor Government and that Government did not respond. By the time we got into office the dairy factories were being forced to reduce their price to possibly as low as 40c per lb. That was a dramatic reduction- from 60c at the start of the season, which, incidentally, was lower than the final price of the previous season. By March 1976 we had acceded to the Australian Dairy Farmers Federation request, to which Labor refused to accede, and introduced underwriting at 50c per lb. That reintroduction, incidentally, has cost this Government virtually nothing. It put that minimum price prop back into the industry and the industry was able to continue on its own behalf. At the same time the Minister requested a special Industries Assistance Commission report on the industry from  Sir John  Crawford. 
The first IAC report on the dairy industry, instigated by the Labor Government, produced nothing. The IAC, after taking mountains of evidence, virtually told the industry to go and sort out the situation itself. In the 1976-77 production season the underwriting figure was increased from 50c to 60c, and finally to 65c. That also has not cost the Government very much. When  Sir John  Crawford brought down his report he recommended stage one, compulsory equalisation, which, I remind honourable members, was put at risk by what Labor had done a couple of years earlier. That came in in the 1 977-78 season which is now ending. At the same time underwriting was increased from 65c to the current level of 75c. During the same period, the last 12 months, there has been great debate on stage two of the Crawford proposals; that is, a national aggregate entitlement and market share entitlements for each dairy farmer. Here we have seen the sad situation of State parochialism, of confrontation rather than compromise. If anything is to succeed in our Federal context it has to be achieved by reasonable compromise. The Minister for Primary Industry took this all on the chin and did not reply to some of the abuse that was thrown at him. He kept trying to reach a sensible compromise so that we could have a genuine national dairy industry in this country. 
The failure of the States to agree at the January Australian Agricultural Council meeting this year meant the end of the market share entitlement proposal. Without State complimentary legislation and administrative arrangement support the scheme obviously was not on. The Victorian Government, the State Minister of Agriculture and some of the dairy industry leaders in Victoria are to be blamed as much as anybody else for this sad example of State parochialism. In my area- I represent more dairy farmers than anybody else in this place- dairy farmers are saying: 'We really did want this market share entitlement scheme; that was the best scheme for us'.  Mr Bill  Pyle, the leader of United 
Dairy-farmers of Victoria, said at the UDV conference in Melbourne last week: 
Victoria should stop being as parochial and short-sighted as other States and take the initiative towards a logical and unified national approach. 
He also said that he did not blame politicians for dairying's problems; that blame rested squarely on the industry. Some of these people are now acknowledging that their tactic of last year when they opted for confrontation rather than compromise was the wrong tactic. They now acknowledge that perhaps a reasonable and sensible compromise with the national aggregate entitlement scheme might have been the best approach. 
I want to give some credit to the Australian Dairy Farmers Federation which in the last couple of months, when it saw that an impasse had been reached in the situation, supported the selective underwriting proposal put up by the Minister as an alternative proposition when the national aggregate scheme had seemed to flounder because of State intransigence. What the Minister has put before us with this legislation is actually a simplified or less restrictive version of the selected underwriting which the Australian Dairy Farmers Federation supports. The Federation support of this proposal has, I believe, made it easier to go forward or perhaps has made it more palatable. 
I support this proposal because it interferes less with commercial operations than any proposal which has been put forward before. It is also a proposal which is closer to the original IAC concept of opening up the industry to market forces. It gently pushes the industry away from butter rather than directs or demands it to go away from butter. Nobody can be sure of the production level in Australia this coming season; what markets there will be; what the consumption level will be on the home market; and what the responses of the various sectors of industry will be to these proposals. I say that the Government was wise to push gently because there is great danger in any government poking its nose too far into any industry and deciding what is best for it. It is better left for the industry to sort that out for itself. 
What is the proposal which we are calling stage two? There is a Commonwealth Government guarantee of approximately 75c at the farm gate for all the cheese that can be produced, particularly gouda and cheddar which are the two leviable products- I do not anticipate that there will be any government support needed for them- and for all the whole milk powder for which there is firm markets. It is debatable how much support will be needed for whole milk powder. For butter there is a 96,000 tonne restriction on the level of underwriting. I want to emphasise to the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  who is now departing from the chamber that that is not a quantitative restriction. It is an amount of production which will receive government underwriting support at the 75c level. 
After that momentary pause I will continue. I want to remind everybody that the figure of 96,000 tonnes was recommended by the Australian Dairy Farmers Federation. It has its support. The equalisation mechanism for underwriting of domestic and export production will be involved to that extent. It is not an actual physical restriction on production. If anybody wants to produce butter beyond that figure he may but he will receive the assessed average export price for that product, which of course is a lower figure. Therefore there is a financial disincentive to produce beyond that level rather than an actual quantitative restriction. I believe that the 96,000 tonne quota is a figure that if administered flexibly will be met sensibly by the factories around Australia. That is the information which is coming to me. This scheme will be left to the Australian Dairy Corporation and to the Minister to administer and I believe that with goodwill and flexibility that matter will be sorted out. 
There are a couple of important points of clarification that I want to make concerning this quota. The Minister made clear in his second reading speech that the 96,000 tonne quota applies to dairy companies rather than to branch factories of the same company. Obviously it is sensible for multi-factory dairy companies- most companies are now set up in that way- if they are to respond to market pressures to move away from butter, to divert some of their processes, either in part of the factory or perhaps in the whole factory, to some other product. They should not be penalised for so doing. Nobody can stop a dairy factory which may have produced its quota of butter from selling surplus milk to another factory which is under quota and thus allow it to produce butter up that quota. I think that would be sensible too because we are not sure whether 96,000 tonnes is the spot-on figure. It appears to be the closest figure that anybody can gauge. Nothing would be worse than not having enough production to meet commercial markets for butter. 
There is also provision for factories facing special circumstances to have the Administrative Appeals Tribunal decide in the last resort whether they should receive some special quota. It is possible that there could be a slight increase in the 96,000 tonne quota because of special quotas coming from an Administrative Appeals Tribunal hearing. The Minister, by offering an underwriting of 80c per lb butterfat to dairy farmers if the States will come in on a $2 Commonwealth to $1 State basis on the complete level of underwriting, would guarantee to farmers the figure for which they have been asking and about which, incidentally, many of the States have been critical of the Commonwealth previously. 
The Federal Minister has challenged the States to put up or shut up about this figure of 80c. In doing so, he has relieved those States of the present $2 for $1 arrangement concerning certain dairy products. We are told that Victoria will not go into the scheme with the Commonwealth. Victoria is not the only State which has adopted this approach. I do not know whether any of the States as yet have said they will agree to the figure of 80c in the Commonwealth proposal. But that does not in any way invalidate the Commonwealth's scheme because the Commonwealth's scheme, at the 75c level, does not require any State support. There is no need for complementary State legislation. The levy mechanism will work and it will do so for the underwriting limit of 96,000 tonnes. So any talk about whether a State is in the scheme in principle is irrelevant. It shows an ignorance of the dairy industry and this legislation. If a State like Victoria wants to go ahead and come up with an underwriting of 80c through its own finances and in its own way, I would say, on behalf of the Victorian dairy farmers I represent, that that is what we would expect the Victorian Government would do. If Victoria wants to do it in that way instead of going along with the Commonwealth, to a certain extent that is its business. But it may be the wrong decision for Victoria to take because it might actually cost Victoria more money. I think it may have been a little hasty in taking that action. 
There are some dangers, though, in possible Victorian attitudes. I refer to the possibility of a conflict between the Victorian Dairy Industry Authority, which is a State authority that markets liquid milk in Victoria, and the Australian 
Dairy Corporation, which has Commonwealth statutory power for the export of manufactured dairy products, about the promotion and marketing of manufactured dairy products in Australia. I hope that this does not eventuate because, once again, it would show the parochial nature of the dairying industry when a national approach is needed. Also, if the Victorian Government, in providing the topping up from 75c to 80c, endeavours to support over-quota production of butter up to the underwriting figure, it should be warned that it could be endangering the whole scheme. 
It is not. The scheme will still progress. The honourable member for Blaxland does not understand anything about the dairying industry. The Labor Party, as we are now seeing, continually knocks anything that this Government does in relation to primary industry, but the Labor Party never puts forward alternative proposals. I believe that that is simply because, apart from its ideology and apart from its priorities, it just does not understand the rural situation. 
The States have a particular responsibility to the dairying industry, which I hope they will fulfil. The liquid milk market or, if one likes, the city milk market has not been included in this proposal. Therefore there is a great responsibility on the States to equalise that city milk market for the benefit of all the dairy farmers in each State, rather than the situation which exists in some States at the moment. I remind dairy farmers and governments in States other than Victoria of a couple of points. One is that the market share entitlement scheme included an allocation for liquid milk- city milk- which is the growth section of the dairy industry in Australia and which is the best paying section of the industry. This one does not. Therefore, those States which at the moment say they do not like this scheme very much ought to examine it again because this scheme makes no reference to the very important city milk sectors of, say, New South Wales and Queensland. Therefore, there are real bonuses for other States in this scheme. This scheme is to operate for one year only. I am pleased about that because we do have a transition period in the dairying industry. 
In conclusion, I say to the honourable members who have talked about production in Victoria and about dairy farmers in Victoria that more dairy farmers have left their dairy farms in Victoria than in any other State. The problems of the dairying industry cannot be laid at the door of the Victorian dairy farmers, most of whom have been farming as long as farmers in other States. There is only one answer to the problems of the dairying industry, that is, the adoption of a national approach rather than the parochial approach shown by the States. For that reason I very much support this legislation, which produces a national approach to the problems of the dairying industry. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Riverina) (8.0)-The legislation before the House contains many vicious clauses, and one can well understand why Government supporters kept interjecting during speeches from this side of the chamber. It appears to me that they are very concerned to see that the truth is not revealed. They are more inclined to conceal the truth, and this has become a habit in debates in this House in recent times. Long before he rose to speak, the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  attacked the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  and tried to prevent him from putting the Australian Labor Party's view before the House. Then he accused the honourable member for Blaxland of not putting forward the Labor Party 's policy. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK- Of course he did. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro claimed that the honourable member for Blaxland had not put forward an alternative policy. I make the point that no one can put forward any suggestion if he is not allowed to speak. The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  used a lot of flowery phrases in his speech about the great legislation that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  had brought down and then he wanted to know what the Labor Party had done. Strangely enough, he was one of the honourable members who was interjecting all the time that the honourable member for Blaxland was speaking, and when the honourable member for Blaxland wanted to leave the House temporarily the honourable member for Murray was very hurt that he missed a couple of words of his speech. That is not a very fair minded attitude to adopt. 
Anyone who knows something about the dairy industry would be pleased that the Government is preparing to implement stage 2 of the marketing arrangements for the dairy industry from 1 July 1 978 through the introduction of a system of selective underwriting. I emphasise that that does not mean that people have to approve of every clause of these Bills. Let me point out one of the reasons why the Opposition supports selective underwriting. The report of the Industries Assistance Commission of 23 October 1975 stated: 
In the last IS years the Australian dairy industry has undergone substantial change. The industry is now vastly different from, and much more efficient than, that which existed at the time of the 1960 Committee of Inquiry into the Dairy Industry. Since that Inquiry, the number of dairy farms and dairy cows has fallen but total milk output has increased. 
It pointed out that there has been a substantial fall in the number of small herds and that the number of farms with more than 100 milk cattle has increased. It went on to indicate that these changes have vastly improved the farm and factory sectors. The output per cow has improved, the number of factories has decreased, but the total throughput of milk has increased substantially. On page (i) of the report the Industries Assistance Commission stated: 
These changes have greatly improved the efficiency of both the farm and factory sectors. There has been not only improved productivity as measured by output per cow, hectare or farm but also substantially improved relative efficiency in comparison with other Australian rural industries. The industry has lower production costs than most overseas producers and over the longer term requires a relatively low level of assistance. 
I think that the IAC is vastly in favour of the dairy industry and is encouraging the Government to give the industry some assistance. This report on the dairy industry, when compared with reports we receive on the car industry, the manufacturing industry or the shipbuilding industry, is a clear indication that, given a chance, the dairy industry can perform particularly well. Notwithstanding the degree of adjustment that has already taken place, it is quite obvious to everyone that the industry is still faced with a lot of major problems which, I would say, are due to inflation and to the need to develop marketing arrangements which provide for more stability. In his second reading speech the Minister, referring to the severe economic pressures on the Australian dairy industry, said: 
A major factor has been the depressed conditions in the international market for dairy products. This situation is largely attributable to the effects of the common agricultural policy of the European Economic Community through its price support policy which has led to the over-production of dairy products and their subsequent disposal on overseas markets at heavily subsidised prices to the detriment of the Australian dairy industry. 
Let me give an indication of what the dairy industry has to compete with. The Minister mentioned the 1976 report of the Industries Assistance Commission and spoke about the stabilisation scheme. In the 1975 report the Industries Assistance Commission had already suggested a stablisation scheme. It said: 
The Commission also makes recommendations on export stabilisation for the dairy industry, protection of dairy products against imports, the position of Australian dairy exports on overseas markets, competition from margarine, fluid milk arrangements and the Australian Code of Practice for Dairy Factories. It also commends the concept of a proposed national dairy herd improvement scheme and considers that, subject to a favourable outcome of a detailed benefit-cost study, the provision of some Australian Government financial assistance would be justified. 
So we have plenty of examples of recommendations being made by expert committees set up to investigate the dairy industry and suggesting certain lines of assistance. But those who have been studying or who know something about the dairy industry would know that the first inquiry was made in 1959 and, as I mentioned, the first report was brought down in 1960. It recommended wide ranging changes. The 1975 IAC report pointed out that these recommendations were not adopted by the Government. This situation is similar to the River Murray schemes which have been recommended time and again but which have never been adopted by the Government. It was in 1974 that the Labor Government introduced legislation to implement pan of the 1960 report. Also at that time the Government gave the IAC the task of reexamining the dairy industry in the light of conditions at that time. The dairy industry is in such a sad plight that no one should try to make political capital out of it. It seems to me that Government supporters do this to cover up for the weaknesses of this Bill and their lack of concern for the dairy industry. Let us examine the facts and see how much truth there is in this claim. As the Industries Assistance Commission pointed out on page 2 of its report of 23 October 1975, previous inquiries were carried out in 1959 and 1960, as I have already mentioned, and there were recommendations of wide-ranging changes. The government of the time never adopted those recommendations. Everyone in this House knows what brand of government we had in 1 960. 
The Government cannot cover up for poor performance by blaming the Opposition. The Labor Party was in power for only 3 years out of 26 and in that time we had to fight 2 elections. Also, we had a hostile Senate and a lot of Bills were held up in that chamber. Even so, the Labor Government still did a lot for primary industry. Notable among what it did was the provision of a floor price for wool. We set aside $350m to bring in a floor price for wool. Also, in one year we allocated $38m for the dairy industry. It was notable that the very next time this Bill came up for review the Liberal-National Country Party Government allocated only $3.5m for this purpose. Whatever way one looks at the Industries Assistance Commission report it indicates the tragic neglect of the dairy industry by successive Liberal-National Country Party governments. As I have mentioned before, it indicates that 14 years have been lost, whereas gradual adjustment could have been made and the dairy industry could have found itself in a much better position. 
The Minister indicated in his second reading speech that the Industries Assistance Commission recommended that stage 2 of the dairy industry marketing arrangements should provide for a national aggregate entitlement scheme. It was very disappointing to hear the Minister go on to say that after prolonged discussions by the Australian Agricultural Council and the Standing Committee on Agricultureincluding consideration of a series of working party reports, some of which no doubt I have mentioned- it was not found possible to introduce the national aggregate entitlement scheme because of the difficulties which had arisen in obtaining an agreement between the States on the calculation of the size of the initial national aggregate entitlement and its allocation amongst the States. Once again we see the old dodge of this Government blaming something on the States or on three years of Labor Government. What we want is a national government that is game to do something and not cover up all the time. 
It is particularly noticeable that the Federal Government is using a financial lever to get the States to co-operate. It has mentioned that if the States do not accept this, the underwrite price will fall to 75c per lb. According to a newspaper report, the Victorian Government has already decided not to accept this. I say this is a pity because the dairy farmers have been waiting for this for a long time but it shows just how sincere this Government is when it talks about federalism, co-operation with the States and so forth. If one wants to know how the Federal Government handles these matters one should look at the  Sydney Morning Herald,  which indicates that a Federal Minister's warning to Victoria not to increase milk prices described as mischievous and nonsensical by a Victorian dairy leader yesterday. I want to read a relevant part of the report. It shows how much consideration and honesty is in this Government. The report reads: 

 Mr Cooper said the VDIA was the pricing authority for milk in Victoria and at present he did not envisage any price rise for milk. 'There was a IS per cent price rise for carton milk three weeks ago because of a duty unfairly imposed by the Federal Government on paper board used in the manufacture of cartons, '  Mr Cooper  said. 
That is a shocking thing. The Federal Government is trying to accuse the Victorian Government of increasing the price of milk when the increase was because of a duty on cartons. I believe, with other honourable members on this side, that the Minister should come into the House and answer the amendment moved by the honourable member for Blaxland. He should refute some of the statements. The dairy industry has proved that it is efficient. It is a vital part of the Australian rural industry. I hope that the Government will have a look at these things to see whether there is some way by which they can co-operate with the States and not hide behind the States to knock back this legislation. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 17 April 1978: 
Has his Department received any complaints about alleged dumping of New Zealand peas and beans which is contrary to the spirit of NAFTA and the special Pea and Bean Panel; if so, what action has been taken. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 7 April 1978: 
1 ) Who are the holders of licences for the importation of footwear and what are their quotas. 
Which organisation is considered to be the most representative of footwear retailers, and what weight is given to its view when allocating import quotas. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that a Tariff Board investigation into the ball bearing industry commenced in 1972, and as yet, over 5 years later, no final report or Government decision has been made. 
If so, will he request the Industries Assistance Commission to expedite the final report, which follows the draft report of September 1977, so that the chronic uncertainty in the industry can be ended. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 10 May 1978: 
1 ) What advisory or consultative committees has the Minister established or continued which include members of parliament. 
Which members and senators are included on these committees. 
r think this debate on health care costs reflects the contradictory attitude of the community generally and the general nature of the debate that is taking place in the community. Some people are saying that they are opposed to the increasing percentage of the gross domestic product, or their incomes, being devoted to paying for the escalating health care costs. Before I go on to the contradictory part of their beliefs, I want to acknowledge the success that the present Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  has achieved through the Medibank Mark 
II arrangements of October 1976. For the first time in several years of continuing inflation he has been able to slow down the rate of increase. That is no mean achievement. Some people are saying that we can not afford to devote an increased percentage of our income, national or individual, to health care costs, and something must be done about it, but when the Government does something about it the Government is roundly condemned for doing it. That is the impossible contradictory situation that I believe any Minister for Health would have to face at present. 
I believe also that, if the Australian Labor Party was still in office, by now it would have introduced modifications to the original Medibank concept because of the escalating cost factor built into it. One can look for supporting evidence of that in the very cautious statements made by the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  in which he stopped short of saying that the Labor Party would automatically and immediately re-introduce Medibank as it was known. So when one listens to the criticisms made by the Labor Opposition one can speculate with some interest as to what it would have done had it still been in government. 
I commend the Minister on the result of the review that the Government and the Cabinet have undertaken with Medibank. For some time there were all sorts of wild assertions and rumours about the Parliament that there were to be massive transfers of health care costs from the government sector to the private sector, to the patient. This has not occurred. I think that the Opposition is rather disappointed about all this because it has stolen its thunder and the extravagant claims that it was making have failed to materialise. I believe that the Minister has achieved a good balance between long and short term modifications. He has made it quite plain that before any more significant alterations can be made to Medibank the Government will have to have more information on which to base its decisions. I want to quote from a ministerial statement made in May entitled 'Health Care Costs Control Program' in which the Minister for Health stated: 
Accordingly the Government has decided to seek the authority to obtain and analyse information from and about the health insurance system in greater depth. As well, a number of specific pilot surveys covering usage and costs of health services in individual areas will be undertaken. This action, together with a basic review now under way on the health data available for policy evaluation, will provide the Government with a more accurate information base which is an important requirement of a continuing review. 
Until an improved data base becomes available the Government believes that it would be premature to proceed further with the consideration of major adjustments to the health insurance system. 
I believe that is a most important recognition. So many of the decisions that have been made by both forms of government in this House have been based on less than adequate knowledge. I think the longer term proposals announced by the Minister are really more significant than the short term ones and that they will be more significant and important in cost containment. I think they have been overlooked so far in this debate. The Minister mentioned in that statement that he will be discussing with the Health Ministers of the States various ways of better controlling costs in hospitals. It is in hospitals that the major cost of our health care system lies. He talked of a more accurate classification of beds and patients- I want to return to that subject later- and of proceeding on an accelerated basis with the accreditation of hospitals. 
Over 12 months ago he laid a challenge before the Australian Medical Association to do something about peer review in the medical system. My understanding of the recent AMA Congress in Sydney is that the AMA has accepted that challenge and will on a self-regulatory basis introduce a peer review system. That is a tremendous breakthrough in the containment of costs and, I believe, the more accurate quality control systems in this country at doctor level. I believe that this breakthrough is a credit to the Minister and to the AMA. However, I believe that if there is a failing by the profession to carry out this undertaking a government of either political persuasion will be forced to do what those doctors fail to do. 
The discussion paper on health care by  Dr Sax  forms the basis for the Government's review and the amendments which are now before us and I believe that the decisions made by the Government largely follow the recommendations of that document. In the medical area and in relation to the major decision which has been announced and which we are debating, the 75 per cent to 85 per cent rebate level, the question of identifying health care costs at the patient level is stated clearly by  Dr Sax  as an important issue. We are criticised for increasing this gap but we have to look only as far as New Zealand to see in that country- a country where some of us may think there is a greater degree of socialised medicine, of an egalitarian approach to health care- a far greater patient contribution gap for ordinary medical services. That fact is either not known or is conveniently overlooked by those who contradict us at this time. The Minister in one of his Press statements summarised what he hopes to achieve by these changes. He said they were designed to: 
. encourage responsible use of one of the best health services in the world; ensure that overuse and abuse were reduced to a minimum; obtain the best value for taxpayers' dollars spent on health care: and to promote competition and innovation in private health insurance. 
I note that another aspect of medical payments, the doubling of the patient gap from $5 to $ 10, is not referred to in the amendments proposed by the Labor Party. In other words, the Labor Party agrees with doubling the gap from $5 to $10. Logically, if it did not agree it would have included that point in its amendments. So it should agree. If one compares the average wage at the time that the $5 gap was introduced some eight or nine years ago with the average wage now one will find that $5 at that time was probably a higher percentage of average weekly earnings than $ 10 is now. The first of the two exceptions to which I referred in relation to  Dr Sax  is the provision of optional deductibles. I do not believe that he is necessarily opposed to that but he certainly is opposed to the provision of front-end deductibles. The private health insurance companies and the AMA are also opposed to, and I must confess that I am concerned about, the provision of front-end deductibles. However, I am reassured by the Minister that he has specific criteria which will have to be followed by the health funds before any approval is given for a front-end deductible scheme. That gives me some reassurance. 
One curious and I believe damaging aspect of the Labor Party's proposed amendment is the statement that it would not allow optional deductibles. It means they would effectively prevent those people in our community who do not believe in the payment of medical benefits for the termination of pregnancy from being given the freedom of choice to opt out of it or to gain membership of a scheme that gives them that option, which I believe they have every right to expect. I wonder whether the Labor Party Caucus has really discussed that point and whether it is aware of all the implications. I would be interested to know whether such people as  Mr Stewart, Mr Keating, Mr Martin  or even  Mr Les  McMahon would be completely in favour of a scheme which prevented a significant percentage of the Australian population from having the freedom and the right to opt out through private health insurance of the payment for a medical benefit or rebate for the termination of pregnancy when they on moral grounds do not believe in it. 
I agree with that. The honourable member for Maranoa is quite correct. In Australia we have a plural society. I believe that it is right for those who do not  see  the termination of pregnancy in the above terms to have the right to be covered for the termination of pregnancy- abortion. But there is a significant percentage of our population which does not believe in it. I want once again to commend the Minister for providing that freedom of choice, which I believe should be there for those Australian citizens who do not believe in the provision of medical benefits for abortion, to opt out of paying for it. I think that is one of the commendable features of the amendments which have been introduced. I only hope that the Australian population at large will become aware of the attitude taken by the Labor Party in denying that freedom of choice to a very significant percentage of the population which is very upset by the fact that at present it is forced to pay through the private health insurance funds for the termination of pregnancies which it on moral grounds cannot support. I only hope that the electorate will become fully aware of the Labor Party's attitude. 
One other side effect is that the amendments proposed by the Labor Party would actually increase health insurance costs. On a number of occasions I have heard Labor supporters say that costs are increased because of the provision of cosmetic surgery, that that is an automatic payment at present. One of the other benefits that I see of optional deductibles is that such provision would allow funds to put up schedules which do not include cosmetic surgery and hence should reduce the cost of the premiums for those funds. The other exception is in relation to gap insurance where there appears to be a contradiction. Reducing the rebate or increasing the gap from 15 per cent to 25 per cent brings home to the patient to a greater degree the actual cost of health insurance services that he is incurring while at the same time gap insurance is allowed to continue. I must confess that that concerned me also until I was told in fairly blunt terms that there was no legal way by which the Government could completely block the provision of gap insurance. If this involved only health insurance people, perhaps the Government could; but one must consider the whole range of possible insurance arrangements, including State insurance companies which would not necessarily go along with a request from the Commonwealth not to cover gap insurance. 
The other curious aspect of the Labor amendment is that members of that Party are against increasing the patient contribution for pharmaceutical benefits from $2 to $2.50. 1 well remember 1975 and the Hayden Budget which increased the patient contribution gap from $ 1 to $1.50. That was a 50 per cent increase as opposed to a proposed 25 per cent increase. They were all in favour of a 50 per cent increase- a 50 per cent slug, if you like- on the ordinary person going along to obtain his national health scheme j.r ascription; yet now they are opposed to an increase of half that size. 
I agree. That increase was far more significant than this proposed one. Let us look at the increase in the consumer price index in the two gap periods. Between November 1971, when the coalition Government increased the contribution to $1, and September 1975, there was an increase of 48.66 per cent in the consumer price index. So Labor can argue that its increase in the patient contribution more or less matched the increase in the consumer price index. However, the difference between when the patient contribution was last increased and now is 22.9 per cent. This is not taking account of the last quarter so the actual difference would be very close to 25 per cent. It would appear to me that both Labor when in government and we now in government have done virtually identical things. Seemingly it is right to criticise when in opposition things done when in government. According to the amendment that must be the case. 
I now move to one of the other great innovations of this series of measures; namely, the isolated patients travel and accommodation allowance. The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  covered this completely last night. He spoke from his great experience of the needs of people in isolated areas. I make the point that this has been National Country Party policy for a number of years. The present Minister had it included in the joint government policy for the last election. At last it is a reality. It is the most significant recognition that I can think of to cover one of the many disabilities faced by country people. I emphasise that this is only one of the disabilities country people face with regard to the provision, cost and proximity of services. When one considers some of the complaints made by people in this House and outside about reducing the medical benefits from 85 per cent to 75 per cent of the schedule fee, increasing the maximum patient contribution from $5 to $ 10 or increasing from $2 to $2.50 the maximum amount that approved chemists may charge for the supply of a pharmaceutical benefit, these are insignificant compared to costs faced by rural people, particularly in isolated areas, for services. I believe the Minister has overcome this disability well. He has done it properly. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  and others have acknowledged that rather than do it through the tax system-because that really does not help the people on low incomes- he has done it on a grant basis. To be eligible, a person must be referred for specialist treatment more than 200 kilometres distant. He will pay only the first $20 of the fare and will receive a maximum accommodation allowance of $15 a night. What is significant is that there is provision to pay for the accommodation of a person who is obliged to accompany such a patient. I think in particular of the mother who has to accompany her sick child to a distant city. 
There are some other implications for rural health in the Minister's statement. One concerns long-stay pensioner patients in hospitals. In some cases payments to such patients will no longer bc on a hospital basis- the Medibank basis- but on a nursing home basis. This has particular significance for patients in country hospitals, particularly small country hospitals. The Minister for Health is very much aware of this situation because he has many of these types of hospitals in his own electorate. I ask the Minister to adopt a flexible and cautious approach to this problem. In Victoria this proposal is of particular concern to the Bush Nursing hospitals. We have to ensure that no injustice results to patients because of their transfer to a nursing home category, especially if there is no nursing home bed available within a distance of 150 kilometres. In many cases it will be better to administer this on a patient basis, particularly in very small hospitals, than on a ward basis. Even if it is done flexibly, considerable problems of a financial and managerial nature will be created for many small country hospitals. I know the Minister is very much aware of this aspect and I remind him of the need to keep this uppermost in his mind when he is discussing these matters with the State Health Ministers. 
I return to my original point: The community in Australia cannot have it both ways. People cannot on the one hand claim that taxes are too high- that somehow or other the individual should be allowed to retain a bigger disposable income than he has now- and on the other hand criticise health costs to which too high a percentage of the tax dollar is going, especially as health care is a highly paid labour intensive area. People must accept that the Government must respond to the high charges and make changes. I believe that on this occasion the Government has acted moderately. Australia will continue to have one of the best and most accessible health care systems in the world. People will still have a reasonable freedom of choice and the basic universal health care coverage will be retained. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 23 May 1978: 
1 ) Is there a delay in the payment of Income Equalisation Deposits and in the postage of withdrawal application forms. 
Will he ensure that applications are processed more expeditiously in future. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 23 May 1978: 
1 ) What is the arrangement between New South Wales and the River Murray Commission to guarantee water to South Australia through the Murray River system. 
What pan do the Lachlan and Macquarie Rivers play in this arrangement. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1978: 
1 ) What are the current tariff quota arrangements for the importation of the various types of vegetable oil suitable for table margarine production. 
What quantity of each of these types has been imported in each of the last 3 years for which figures are available and what are the names of the companies. 
What percentage of total table margarine production is provided by imported vegetable oil. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 23 May 1978: 
1 ) Will there be an  oversupply of  doctors in the near future; if so, will this add considerably to the national health bill. 
What is being done to reduce the intake of medical students and the entry of overseas trained doctors. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 24 May 1 978: 
1 ) Was a record tonnage of tomatoes processed during the tomato processing season which has just ended. 
Will there be more than adequate supplies of processed tomatoes for the Australian market; if so, will he officially determine this to be the case and so exclude the use of by-law admission for the importation of duty free tomato products. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 29 May 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to widespread criticism of the Taxation Office, particularly in Melbourne, Victoria, and Albury, New South Wales, concerning the very late payment of taxation refunds. 
) If so, is it a fact that in many cases refunds in respect of the year 1976-77 have not yet been received compared with payment before the following Christmas in previous financial years. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1978: 
What procedures and criteria will he adopt when he considers the producer membership of the Potato Panel to replace the present panel whose term ends in the near future? 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 31 May 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the concern in the fresh apple and pear industry over the ad hoc nature of the current stabilisation scheme. 
If so, will he introduce a 3 year scheme and update current stabilisation levels, particularly for pears. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1 978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the added cost to fresh pear exporters of the compulsory fumigation imposed by the United States quarantine authorities. 
If so, what are the procedures to include pears to North America in the supplementary assistance program to help compensate for this cost. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
Is equipment presently installed in telephone exchanges in the major metropolitan cities capable of monitoring local calls of more than 6 minutes duration in those centres, in a manner similar to STD timed calls, so that those calls exceeding 6 minutes duration can be charged an additional fee; if not, when will suitable equipment be installed. 
What additional revenue would be obtained if all calls exceeding 6 minutes were charged an additional local call fee for every 3 minutes beyond that period. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 10 May 1978: 
What advisory or consultative committees has the Minister established or continued which include members of parliament. 
Which members and senators are included on these committees. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 10 May 1978: 
What advisory or consultative committees has he established or continued which include members of parliament. 
Which members and senators are included on these committees. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science the following question, upon notice, on 10 May 1978: 
What advisory or consultative committees has the Minister established or continued which include members of parliament. 
Which members and senators are included on these committees. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 10 May 1978: 
1 ) What advisory or consultative committees has he established or continued which include members of parliament. 
Which members and senators are included on these committees. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 10 May 1 978: 
1 ) What advisory or consultative committees has he established or continued which include members of parliament. 
Which members and senators are included on these committees. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 24 May 1978: 
What tonnage of cheese (a) by type and (b) by country of export entered Australia in (i) 1975-76 (ii) 1976-77 and (iii) 1977-78 to date. 
What percentage of total Australian consumption of each of these cheese varieties was provided by imports for the same period. 
What tariffs, quotas or other restrictions are placed on Australian cheese exports to the countries from which cheese was imported. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 29 May 1978: 
1 ) In view of the number of small businesses and farmers who became bankrupt or who made arrangements with creditors during the last four years, do the figures supplied in his answer to question No. 412  (Hansard,  9 May 1978, page 2111) accurately reflect the true financial position of farmers. 
Does the higher percentage of fixed capital costs to total capital required and the different cashflow problems of farmers, compared with other types of small business, result in forced sales of farms rather than bankruptcies. 
Are there any figures available which more accurately reflect the number of failed farmers. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1978: 
1 ) What is (a) the salary or remuneration and (b) daily travelling allowance for (i) a member of the Australian Dairy Corporation and (ii) a director of Asia Dairy Industries Ltd. 
What was the cost of allowances, excluding salary, for members of both these bodies and for how many members were these costs incurred in the last year for which figures are available. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to a recent press report of the alleged view of the GROW organisation that the Federal Government's drug education program was doing more harm than good; if so, will he investigate the report and inform the House if there is any substance in the alleged view of the organisation. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 31 May 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to a recent press report of the alleged view of the GROW organisation that the Australian Broadcasting Commission has a pro-drug bias, and is the most subtle drug pushing television and radio network: if so, will he investigate the report and inform the House if there is any substance in the reported allegation. 
asked the Minister for Trade and 
Resources, upon notice, on 7 June 1 978: 
Is it a fact that McDonalds, the largest hamburger chain in the United States of America and a large and expanding fast food retailer in Australia, has in the United States opposed the importation of Australian beef. 
If so, what action can be taken, either legally or by adverse publicity, to remind that company that it cannot have its hamburger and eat it too by rejecting Australian beef in the United States and by profiting by it in Australia. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 7 June 1 978: 
1 ) What progress is being made with proposals to improve the capacity of the Murray River, in the area known as the Barmah Choke, to accommodate the increased summer flow following the completion of the Dartmouth Dam. 
What safeguards will there be for the red gum forest and the ibis and other bird life areas. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 8 June 1 978: 
1 ) What progress is being made with the implementation of the fifth point in his seven-point program for the beef industry announced in September 1 977. 
Does this point concern the evaluation and, if necessary, revision of the rural adjustment scheme to ensure the adequacy of that scheme for beef producers. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 8 June 1978: 
1 ) Is he able to say whether agriculture is the only sector to be cut in the United States budget proposed by President Carter, and that the allocation for tuberculosis and brucellosis eradication has been reduced to $5.2m for 1979. 
If so, is he also able to say whether (a) such a cut means that the United States is no longer giving the same priority to the eradication of tuberculosis and brucellosis, ( b ) the States finance most of the United States eradication program and (c) the 1 984 deadline for eradication of the diseases will still be met. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 10 May 1978: 
1 ) What advisory or consultative committees has he established or continued which include members of parliament. 
Which members and senators are included on these committees. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 10 May 1978: 
1 ) What advisory or consultative committees has he established or continued which include members of parliament. 
Which members and senators are included on these committees. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal 
Affairs, upon notice, on 10 May 1978: 
What advisory or consultative committees has he established or continued which include members of parliament. 
Which members and senators are included on these committees. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 10 May 1978: 
1 ) What advisory or consultative committees has he established or continued which include members of parliament. 
Which members and senators are included on these committees. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 10 May 1978: 
1 ) What advisory or consultative committees has he established or continued which include members of parliament. 
Which members and senators are included on these committees. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 7 June 1978: 
What progress has been made with the establishment of the terms of reference, and the actual hearing by the Prices Justification Tribunal, of the inquiry into certain aspects of the meat industry. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 10 May 1978. 
What advisory or consultative committees has the Attorney-General established or continued which include members of parliament. 
Which members and senators are included on these committees. 
I compliment the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown)  not only for showing his expertise and knowledge of the industry but also for doing his homework on the particular points of this legislation. It is a pleasure to hear a member of the Opposition speaking with the knowledge and expertise that the honourable member has shown. The purpose of this Bill is quite simple. It is to increase the maximum research levy possible from 10c to 20c a head. The present level is 8c a head. It also seeks to increase the promotion levy from 5c to a maximum of 20c. The present level is 5c. Research is funded on a dollar for dollar basis with the Commonwealth Government, and that has been the case since 1971. The research levy was increased only this year from 5c to 8c, and I understand that there is no desire to increase it in the immediate future beyond the present 8c a head. As the honourable member for Parramatta has pointed out, promotion is not supported on a dollar for dollar basis with the Government. It commenced in 1975, following a request from the industry through the Australian Commercial Pig Producers Federation for this promotion. I understand that that body has agreed recently to lift the levy for promotion to 13c a head, and the passage of this legislation is necessary for that to happen. 
That deals with the legislation, but the real interest in these amendments lies in the reason for the request by the pig industry and the state of the industry at the present time. Government and industry backed pig research and industry backed promotion research is quite new for the pig industry in this country. It commenced in the early 1970s. I think that reflects the low level of pig meat consumption in this country. It also indicates that until recently the pig industry was not accepted as a separate and distinct industry. The consumption in Australia- 13 kilograms a head- is low by world standards; the total consumption is 190,000 tonnes. Victoria and New South Wales are the major producing States. The Cohuna Shire in my electorate is one of the major pig production areas in Australia, and in addition to the concentration in that area and in other areas in the electorate there are a number of large specialist pig producers, including a neighbour of mine,  Mr Noel  Maughan, who is one of the up and coming leaders of the industry. 
I understand that once the promotion levy is lifted to 13c a head it will still be low by Western standards as a level of promotion, but it will be a very substantial increase on the current level of promotion. One can understand in relation to promotion that there is always a problem with the development of themes, the employment of personnel and the general development of expertise. I can understand that some people in the pig industry at the present time are concerned by the lack of clarity and accountability of people employed on promotion. At this stage they cannot be employed directly by the Pig Meat Promotion Advisory Committee. However, I have been advised that the Government is considering amendments to the Pig Meat Promotion Act to correct that situation, and I hope that when it happens it will improve the accountability and the general employment relationship between the Pig Meat Promotion Advisory Committee and the pig industry generally. For several years there have been fairly depressed pig prices, at least from the producers' point of view, and this is reflected in the fall in pig numbers from 2,505,000 in 1 974 to 2,22 1 ,000 last year. 
One can appreciate, with not actually a boom situation in the pig industry, the reluctance of some people in the industry to agree to such a substantial rise in the levy, particularly for promotion. One can also understand, as the honourable member for Parramatta pointed out, that the major part of that promotion is in the introduction and selling of the superporker concept, a new method of cutting and retailing pig meat based on a heavier pig. I understand that the Superporker is also being developed and promoted in New Zealand at the present time. As with any new concept, there are delays between the expenditure of money and the achievement of results. With regard to research in the pig industry, one can say immediately that the industry is well ahead of the beef and sheep meat industries in the development of an objective measurement and carcass appraisal system. This is being tested in a number of abattoirs at the present time. I understand also that the pig industry has made a more serious attempt than some of the other agricultural industries to advise those in the industry of what happens in the research that is undertaken on their behalf from time to time. 
There are lessons for other primary industries in what the pig industry is doing, reflected in the legislation before us. The pig industry decided that something had to be done and initiated the action to do it instead of just demanding that the Government do something. What is more, it has shown that it is prepared to pay for that action. Pig meat is being more actively promoted at the present time. I understand that there has been a superporker promotion in Melbourne in addition to those mentioned by the previous  speaker.  More promotion is being done now for pig meat than for any other form of meat in Australia. In regard to marketing, the pig industry is well ahead of the beef and sheep meat industries, not just in the sense of objective measurement and carcass appraisal systems, but in the development of new selling systems which will be more stable and will more accurately reflect to the producer the value of the product. Once again, the industry has done this without loudly demanding that the Government should do something and pay for it. I support the legislation. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Riverina) (9.20)-The honourable member for Parramatta.  (Mr John Brown)  is to be congratulated on the contribution he made to this debate this evening. It is quite obvious that he has had a close connection with the industry and that he has made an indepth study of the problems. This evening he has put forward much information and has raised many questions. He has also given us plenty of suggestions. I believe that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  should answer some of the points put forward by the honourable member for Parramatta. It was very surprising to learn of the extent of poly-arthritis and the small amount of money that has been spent on research in that area. I was also surprised to learn that a good deal of the money from those funds goes to the pet research projects . of various academics. 
But I notice that the honourable member for Parramatta was critical of some of the achievements of this research. Indeed I believe that the honourable member had every right to be critical of some of the achievements. If one were to examine the amendments proposed to this Pig Slaughter Levy Amendment Bill, one would find one fact that is pretty obvious, and that is that the authorities are determined to make sure that their incomes match the inflationary spiral. The maximum levy for research per head of pigs slaughtered will be raised from 10c to 20c, that is, a 100 per cent increase. The maximum levy for promotion per head of pigs slaughtered will rise from 5c to 20c- a 300 per cent increase. As the honourable member for Parramatta said, if the increases in the levy are justified, we do not complain about them. I would say that the Parliament has some reason to be grateful that there is some form of self-help in an industry. Therefore we should feel some urge for Commonwealth assistance which of course has been rendered by way of the Commonwealth matching the levy on a dollar for dollar basis. 
However, as the honourable member for Parramatta has pointed out, the Parliament is entitled to more information. There should be some justification for this big increase in the maximum levy before honourable members are called upon to vote on the Bill. I can remember when the Pig Slaughter Levy Bill was introduced in 1971. On that occasion we were told that the value of slaughtered pig meat was $100m. I notice from statistics provided by the Bureau of Statistics that the value of pig meat now is $197,442,000. It is estimated that in 1978-79 the value will be $22 5m. So this is some indication that although there has been a slight increase in the price of pig meat, the number of pig slaughters has not fallen off. In 1971 those of us who had rural electorates knew that the pig industry was facing many problems, especially with regard to marketing and production. This extended through to disease control, nutrition, breeding and management. When considering the Bill which was before us on that occasion it was reasonable to suppose that this carefully planned program would materially assist in determining solutions. But at present we do not have the information before us- and in particular it is not in the Minister's second reading speech- in order to enable us to make that judgment. 
We all know that much of the adjustment that is necessary in rural industries occurs naturally or automatically. We also know that market forces, if left to themselves, undermine producers' confidence. Market forces often lead to misinformation and sometimes incorrect measures to correct the situation. But for the reasons I have outlined, the Opposition is not opposed to the increases in these promotion and research levies. But I point out again that we believe that there is not enough information on how successful the previous research levy was. However, it is some satisfaction to hear the Minister, in his second reading speech, inform us that the industry requested these increases. He told us that the request for the increases had been made through the Australian Commercial Pig Producers Federation. If that is correct, I must say that it is very comforting. 
I refer again to 1 97 1 when the original Bill was first debated. I can remember on that occasion a delegation from the farmers union meeting the Opposition and asking us for a referendum before legislation for a compulsory levy was passed. The farmers union claimed that there was a significant difference of opinion among pig producers. The Minister, in his second reading speech, told us that the research levy would finance a continuing higher level of scientific and economic research and would ensure that a steady stream of information was available to improve management policies and make betterinformed marketing decisions. If this is so, there is every reason for the Government to match the levy on a dollar for dollar basis. As the honourable member for Parramatta has pointed out already, no one would complain about the increases in the levy if they could be proved to be necessary. It is a well known fact that successive Australian governments have provided a range of measures to assist and expedite the process of structural change to changing economic circumstances. Of course the pig industry is entitled to this assistance the same as any other industry. But if we already have a high level of scientific and economic research, which is currently costing 8c per head with a maximum of 10c per head, why is it necessary to increase the research levy to 20c per head? These are the things we want to know because we believe that there is nothing more divisive than withholding information, and nothing causes more suspicion. There should be a dissemination of information before this Parliament and before the producers. Producers are entitled to know what facilities are available to them as a result of these levies. 
The honourable member for Parramatta has already informed the House of some of the shortfalls in the way in which the levy is paid out. I have not had the experience the honourable member for Parramatta has had on these research committees, but I have received some information on this matter from pig breeders in my electorate. I know how lack of information is restricting the welfare of these producers. One pig producer in my electorate has informed me about the problems he has encountered with his intense pig production farm. He also used the wastage from the pigs to grow his vegetables. He claimed that he ran into trouble because of bad seasons. He was referred to the Rural Reconstruction Board with his problem. 
When he went to borrow money it warned him that he should concentrate on pig breeding. So early in the season he went to borrow money so that he could buy grain from producers before it was distributed through retail outlets but he could not get the money. This cost him many thousands of dollars. There are areas which are badly affected by salvation jane, sometimes known as paterson's curse, and many pigs have been lost in parts of my electorate because of this plant. We know that the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation is to release imported insects to control those plants biologically. However, there has been a holdup because the bee keepers have claimed that it will affect their bee hives. There is also a problem with the quantity and the quality of water and it was very gratifying to hear the Minister tell us today that there is a grant in the Budget for the treatment of this problem in the Murray River. In addition to these problems we have had a drought in my electorate. 
Many pig producers in my area have drawn my attention to a newspaper article which referred to comments made by the New South Wales Minister for Conservation and Water Resources. They said that they would appreciate some more direct assistance from Federal members along these lines. The article is headed: Farm Water Subsidies Help Fight Drought.' It goes on to say: 
Recent drought conditions in New South Wales- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member for Riverina is bringing to the attention of the House matters of considerable interest but I am having difficulty relating them to the Bill. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 6 June 1978: 
1 ) What advisory or consultative committees has he established or continued which include members of parliament. 
Which members and senators are included on these committees. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 May 1978: 
1 ) What advisory or consultative committees has he established or continued which include members of parliament. 
Which members and senators are included on these committees. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 10 May 1978: 
1 ) What advisory or consultative committees has he established or continued which include members of parliament. 
Which members and senators are included on these committees. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 10 May 1978: 
1 ) What advisory or consultative committees has he established or continued which include members of parliament. 
Which members and senators are included on these committees. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 10 May 1978: 
1 ) What advisory or consultative committees has he established or continued which include members of parliament. 
Which members and senators are included on these committees. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
Are Canberra public hospitals being required to institute the same economies in their recurrent costs as that being required of the State public hospitals; if so, what are the details and comparisons; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 10 May 1978: 
1 ) What advisory or consultative committees has he established or continued which include members of parliament. 
Which members and senators are included on these committees. 
-The two Bills being debated are under the administration of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and her Department. They relate to homeless persons and home care. They are concerned primarily with the aged and in the provision of services rather than cash payments for them. They also provide assistance in areas which are served to a certain extent by the Federal Department of Health. The Bills raise several wider policy issues, but there are two principal ones. The first is the desirability of assisting the aged, handicapped and chronically ill to remain in their own homes rather than be placed in institutions. I believe that general principle is accepted by honourable members on both sides of the chamber. 
The second is to the level of government and/or voluntary body or agency that is best equipped to provide, administer and financially support these services. Generally the Federal Government, prodded by voluntary organisations, has provided the major initiating capital necessary for these programs to begin, and the majority of the initial recurring expenditure. However, inevitably this leads to unnecessary duplication and confusion between, on the one hand, two departments at the federal level and, on the other, the different levels of government, State and local, as well as the agencies. It is generally considered that in the application of this policy on a day-to-day basis local groups, whether governmental or voluntary, can best assist these disadvantaged groups; but if the Federal Government provides open-ended financial support to these other levels of government it brings with it the problem of accountability, cost benefit and overall cost control. Because of this, the Federal Government is developing the policy that we see before us today. It is also acknowledged as part of the Government's federalism policy. It believes that capital grants and cash payments are appropriate for the Federal Government but that the provision of services, for reasons indicated earlier, is best undertaken by other levels of government. With the adoption of these amendments I think we will see greater overall cost control, accountability and efficiency in the provision of these services. 
The Homeless Persons Bill was one of the small but valuable initiatives taken by the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  when he was the Minister for Social Security in the former Labor Government. At that time there were several disastrous fires in some of the homeless persons homes in the capital cities, and this caused critical shortage of beds for homeless men. He introduced initially a three-year program. That is now being extended, by this legislation, into its fifth year. There has been a review as to the program's future operation. 
The Department of Health is also involved, through the community health program and women's refuges, in the provision of temporary accommodation. This year $3m will be spent on women's refuges and, with Queensland at last coming into the program, over 80 womens' refuges will be financed. In this way another government department provides a similar type of service. Not only is a temporary home provided in the 106 centres under the homeless persons legislation, but half of the money for the 37 social workers as well as meal subsidies for those temporary inhabitants, are provided. There is very much a provision of services as well as of capital, whether in the sense of renting the premises or buying them. The homeless persons legislation controls a very worthwhile program. From time to time I question whether there should be two separate programs, by two different departments, for the provision of temporary home facilities. When the review, involving discussions with the States, is completed, I would hope that the Commonwealth would continue to be involved in this program, especially in the provision of capital for the purchase of the temporary home facilities; also, that over a period some of the rents that are now provided in respect of these homes for temporary inhabitants will be changed to grants. I acknowledge and understand that a centre should over a period substantiate the needs of homeless persons, rather than just ask for money; and automatically be given a grant- only to find out later that perhaps the money was spent unnecessarily. 
There are quite a number of homeless persons committees, at least in Victoria, and I think it is true throughout Australia, in respect of which payments have been continued on a yeartoyear, rental basis, despite the fact that they have justified something more permanent being done, in the sense of a grant being provided for the purchase of a particular property. I hope that we can move more and more towards this where the need is demonstrated. I believe that that is true of a number of these centres. 
The second of the two Bills relates to home care grants. When this became public- and I do not know why it took so long for it to catch the attention of the media; it was announced after the Premiers Conference- a tremendous number of malicious and deliberately incorrect statements were made about it. A great amount of unnecessary harm and unhappiness has been created as a result. Some of these people did not even bother to check out the different Acts which are grouped in the relevant section and concern the provision of services for the aged, in one form or another, at the Federal level. For example, the Meals on Wheels service has not been touched; it is to continue as before, but the malicious statement was made that provision for it was to be reduced. 
Capital grants for senior citizens continue at the $2 Federal for $1 State and /or local level. Could I make the point that, contrary to the general cries that the Federal Government is being restrictive, when one looks at the situation in Victoria in regard to grants to senior citizens centres one finds that the Victorian Government, for a number of years, has been very mean. It has had a low ceiling on the amount that it would provide for capital for senior citizen centres. Whilst on the one hand the Victorian Government is always blaming the Commonwealth for assigning additional cost to local government, in this case having to do with senior citizens, it is Victoria that is adding to the costs of local government and/or voluntary bodies in the provision of the necessary one-third of capital required after the Commonwealth grant is made. 
Again, paramedical services for the aged have not been touched. This series of innovative home care services for the aged was introduced by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government in 1969. Just as earlier I commended the previous Labor Government on what I thought was a good innovation, I believe that this was a worthwhile innovation by our Government. That was the first introduced on a dollar for dollar basis. I ask honourable members to remember that fact. In 1973 the Labor Government changed it to a $2 for $ 1 basis. I remind the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  who has not bothered to remain in the House to listen to the debate - 
He might learn a bit if he waited. Because of the increasing costs to the Labor Government of that time, the 1975 Budget of that Government froze the number of welfare officers who could be employed under this Act. At that time there were 112 welfare officers employed around Australia. I understand that there are 67 outstanding applications for additional welfare officers. Before anybody starts pointing the finger at anybody else in this debate they should remember that point. It also explains more accurately the reason why the present Budget provides for an increase of 12 per cent in total expenditure on these services. 
By going back to a $ 1 for a $ 1 basis, which applied prior to 1973, we have done one other thing, that is, we have lifted the freeze on the employment of welfare officers under this Act. That means that we have opened up the possibility for all these organisations with outstanding applications, and possibly some others as well, to employ welfare and home care officers. That in itself is quite an open-ended commitment by the Commonwealth. I believe that it is also more equitable. When the Opposition was in government it froze the employment of welfare officers. I challenge its members to say which they believe is more equitable: To continue the freeze on a $2 for $ 1 basis with, as the honourable member for Prospect made the point, the 1 12 welfare officers already employed being placed perhaps in the more fortunate middle class type local government areas and not in any of the other 67 areas to be serviced, or to give everybody who is prepared to do something in the provision of these welfare services and who believes that they are necessary the chance to take advantage of the scheme. I believe strongly in the latter alternative. I would like to hear from the Opposition on that. 
The Home Care Grants Amendment Bill causes me concern on three points. Firstly, I accept that State governments are better able than local government to support financially the part of the service, whatever it might be, which is in addition to what we are supporting financially. I hope that the Commonwealth, in its general discussions with the States on the provision of services in the future, will be able to obtain agreement from the States that they will carry their share of the responsibility more effectively than they have in the past in some areas rather than pass it on to local government, as is the case at present. 
The second point of concern to me is that it would be unfortunate if the change to the Act did reduce the provision of home care services. If it did it would work against what I believe is the best policy, namely, the provision of domiciliary services rather than institutional care. I believe this is so particularly at a time when we are at least starting to make progress with the rationalisation and more efficient utilisation of the very expensive hospital beds for acute patients. I believe that this will not happen. I believe that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has done her homework on the figures she has given for the Budget, which indicate that she believes that there will be an increased allocation of 12 per cent this year. But if the latter were to be the case, I should hope that we would review the situation. 
The third matter of concern is that part of the election policy of this Government which was to extend and improve the domiciliary care benefit scheme which, once again, is administered federally by the Department of Health and which provides domiciliary services in this area. At that time we stated that we would remove the present restriction regarding those people of 65 years and over and that we would change the criteria so that there was purely a medical criteria requiring the existence of some form of chronic incapacity. We said also that we would update the existing $2 a day allowance to something like $3 or $3.50 a day. If we are to develop a better domiciliary servicing arrangement in which the Commonwealth plays its part- not necessarily providing all the money, because I believe very much in cost sharing- I hope that we will go ahead and implement that part of our policy as soon as possible. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 10 May 1978: 
What advisory or consultative committees has he established or continued which include members of parliament. 
Which members and senators are included on these committees. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1978: 
Do the present plant quarantine regulations exclude all plants and varieties other than those specifically allowed into Australia, or do they allow in all plants unless specifically excluded. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 8 June 1978: 
1 ) What progress is being made with the implementation of the final point in the 7-point program for the beef industry announced in September 1 977. 
Is this point designed to overcome the particular problem of persons in isolated areas who are forced to pay more for their various government services than their urban colleagues. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Health. Are Press reports correct that agreement has not yet been reached between the Government and the health insurance funds on the question of a service fee for processing claims for the payment of the Commonwealth benefit only to those people who choose not to insure privately? 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 10 May 1978: 
1 ) What advisory or consultative committees has he established or continued which include members of parliament. 
Which members and senators are included on these committees. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 10 May 1978: 
1 ) What advisory or consultative committees has he established or continued which include members of parliament. 
Which members and senators are included on these committees. 
asked the Minister for Special Trade Representations, upon notice, on 10 May 1978: 
1 ) What advisory or consultative committees has he established or continued which include members of parliament. 
Which members and senators are included on these committees. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 24 May 1978: 
1 ) Have discussions and investigations taken place, and are they still continuing, with the New Zealand Government over complaints by the Australian dairy industry that the New Zealand dairy industry is not adhering to the spirit of the NAFTA arrangements on cheese. 
If so, is one of the complaints that the cheddar quota is being exceeded by the device of giving cheddar cheese some other name, even though that cheese accords with the cheddar cheese definitions used in the pure food Acts of the various Australian States. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 24 May 1 978. 
What and where are the opportunities for live cattle exports in each of the various categories, for example, slaughter, feeder and breeder cattle. 
What quarantine, union or other impediments presently restrict exports. 
In which categories and to which countries do these impediments apply. 
How many cattle in each of the categories have been exported and to which countries for the last three financial or calendar years for which figures are available. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the proliferation of trade delegations from State Governments to the Middle East and elsewhere attempting to obtain markets for Australian meat. 
If so, do these delegations obtain briefings from his Department or the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation before departing. 
Do the delegations strengthen Australia's bargaining position and obtain new markets, or do they weaken it and make Australia look like a banana republic. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 22 August 1978: 
1 ) How many PB II forms did Commonwealth Serum Laboratories lodge with the Department of Health during 1976-77 and 1977-78. 
How many products were listed in total. 
What percentage of price increases were given as a result during the 2-year period. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 10 May 1978: 
What advisory or consultative committees has he established or continued which include members of parliament. 
Which members and senators are included on these committees. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 10 May 1978: 
1 ) What advisory or consultative committees has he established or continued which include members of parliament. 
Which members and senators are included on these committees. 
I believe the real intent of the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  in moving this amendment to the Apple and Pear Stabilization Amendment Bill, which refers only to apples and the level of stabilization, became quite apparent in his concluding words, that is, that the interest of the Australian Labor Party is not with the apple growers but with the political situation in Tasmania. It shows once again the cynical attitude of the Labor Party to the rural people of Australia. When one looks at the record of the Labor Party when it was in government one sees a new-found concern for rural producers. One can understand its new found concern because at last it has been brought home that it has no hope of regaining office unless it wins a few rural seats. When the Labor Party looked around at these rural seats and at the fact that in Tasmania it no longer had a House of Representatives member it put two and two together and came up with $3 a box. 
That is the full extent of the concern and interest of the Labor Party for the apple growers of Australia. It hopes that it might swing the votes of a few apple growers in Tasmania in an endeavour to regain some lower House representation. If it knew anything about the actual position of the apple and pear stabilisation scheme it would come to the conclusion that it is not the apple section that has been under-supported by the Government with the level of support price, but the pear section. However, the Labor Party leaves the pear section out of the amendment altogether. A coincidence- other than the fact that honourable members opposite do not know much about the subject- is that most of the fresh pears exported come from the electorate of Murray and not from Tasmania. 
If one looks at the original figures for the level of support one sees that the figures for pears have not changed. Support for apples has increased and I say good luck in more than one sense. If members of the Labor Party had really done their homework at least they could have included pears in the amendment. That shows the degree of homework, concern, sincerity and understanding that the Labor Party has in relation to the industry as a whole. 
When honourable members opposite get themselves into a mess like this I am not of a mind to help them to get out of it. If one also looks at the other things that the Labor Party did when it was in Government for its new found friends, the apple growers of Australia, one looks first of all at the Coombs Report. 
Let us have a look at Lance Barnard and the Coombs report. He was the  Deputy  Prime Minister of Australia at the time when the Coombs report came in. That report recommended the abolition of the sales tax exemption for carbonated beverages that used S per cent of fruit juice. At that time a significant amount of apple juice was being used and a significant amount of pear juice was starting to be used in these carbonated beverages. This was a significant outlet for these industries, particularly the apple industry. What did our friend of the apple industry,  Mr Barnard,  the  Deputy  Prime Minister at the time, do? He agreed that the Labor Government should remove that particular form of production assistance for the uptake of that industry at a most critical time, that is, when the first effect of the increased external tariff applied by the European Economic Community was being felt. 
When we talk about the EEC and Britain we see the ignorance of honourable members opposite because there was not a sudden closing of the door to fresh apple and pear exports to Europe. Once again honourable members opposite have not done their homework. They do not know anything about the subject. The external tariff was introduced over a number of years but we are still selling apples and pears on those markets where possible over that external tariff which is, I think, about 22 per cent or 24 per cent at present. This shows the understanding honourable members opposite have for this industry. We see the situation with the Labor Government and what it did to kick the apple and pear industries where it hurt at a time when the external tariff was starting to hurt them. We can also look at the tree pull scheme at that time. Great promises were made by the Labor Party in the 1972 election campaign about the tree pull scheme which was introduced by us when we were previously in office. The Labor Party said that the scheme would help in this very painful adjustment period for the fresh apple and pear industry. The Labor Party said that the scheme was not generous enough and that it would do wonderful things.  Mr Grassby  was saying many things about this matter in the electorate. When the Labor Party came to office it did not alter one dot of the scheme or do one thing for the fresh apple and pear tree removal scheme. 
I think it would take more than that to embarrass the honourable member for Franklin. If we continue on and look at the Industries Assistance Commission investigation into - 
The honourable member for Franklin wants me to make the point that he was not locked in any toilet. I accept that. I think he will be speaking on this Bill and he will make an attempt to put the record straight in relation to that aspect. Let us get away from toilets for a minute and get back to the question of apples. At the time when the original five-year stabilisation scheme was ending, what was the attitude of the Labor Party to the recommendation of the IAC that the stabilisation scheme be phased out. My recollection is that the Labor Party accepted the IAC recommendation that all forms of support for the fresh apple and pear industry be phased out, in line with that recommendation. Once again one can be a little cynical about the Labor 
Party's new-found enthusiasm, its new-found support, for the apple growers. I emphasise that its support is for the apple growers of Australia who are exporting apples; not for the pear growers. They have been forgotten altogether. The attitude of the Labor Party is a very cynical attitude because it is based on the thought that perhaps it can get a few votes in Tasmania in the short term, as distinct from any understanding of or empathy with the industry. 
The purpose of this Bill is to continue for two more seasons the fresh apple and pear stabilisation scheme which was introduced by a previous Liberal and National Country Party government for a five-year period in 1971. We extended it in 1976 and 1977, on each occasion for a period of 12 months. I reiterate that, in view of the attitude of the Labor Party at that time, I would hate to think what would have been the situation with this scheme if that Party had remained in power. Its view was to accept the IAC recommendation to phase out the whole stabilisation scheme. The level of stabilisation support for those apples and pears sold at risk, that is, in the European and North American markets, has been reduced- for apples, from two million boxes to   Vi  million boxes; and for pears, from 1.4 million boxes to one million boxes. 
Once again the Labor Party shows its lack of homework in this matter. I just wonder how many people in the industry members of the Labor Party actually bother to talk to. The industry itself sees these reductions as being acceptable and reasonable because the level of reduction equates with the reality of the market situation in those countries at present. When one comes to the rate of support, the increase from $2 to $2.20 for apples has been accepted by the industry. One should note that the apple export situation- the honourable member for Franklin will go into this in greater detail- has been quite bright for the last two seasons. So one can look at the reality of what lifting the support to a certain point would mean. Unless it was a significant increase, it would mean very little. I wonder whether members of the Labor Party have bothered to do any arithmetic on that proposition. I doubt it. 
There is no increase for pears. I will come back to that matter later. Supplementary assistance, which is important for both of these industries, has been increased from $lm to $1,500,000. One should remember that the supplementary assistance scheme provides assistance on a $1 for $1 basis to any State which is prepared to enter into the scheme. For the first time supplementary assistance is being provided for the pear industry up to an amount of $400,000 per annum. As I said earlier, the reality of this reduction in the level of assistance is a reminder to us of the very painful adjustment that has been necessary in these industries because of Britain's entry into the European Economic Community and the introduction of the common external tariff against these fruits. 
We have been hearing quite a lot of talk lately about the problems of adjustment to change, technological change and the fact that some Telecom Australia workers are most upset because not only will they not be guaranteed a job beyond about 10 years but also there may not be the same number of jobs for people in the next generation. Hell! Let us look at the painful adjustment that has been required of apple and pear growers. These statutory corporation workers are on a featherbed compared with the adjustment that has been required of these people. Think of the adjustment that has been necessary in the fresh apple and pear export industry, the canned fruit industry and the dairy industry because of Britain's admission to the EEC. No other industries in Australia, for either technological change or market requirement reasons, have had to bear anything like the adjustment that these industries have been forced to bear and have borne. 
When we look at the coming debate on this question of technological change, adjustment to new processes, new electronic measurement systems and so forth, we should think a little about those industries that are adjusting automatically all the time and are increasing their efficiency. I sincerely hope that we will not get hooked on some situation where those in a special section of the industries of this country receive more than their due protection from the inevitable adjustment that is required to technological change. If we have that situation it will be a grave injustice to those other sections- I have mentioned those sections that in particular have been hurt by adjustments so far- in view of what they have done for an overall more efficient Australia. 
I mentioned earlier that the apple industry has been treated more generously than the pear industry, and I want to support that statement with some figures. The latest edition of  Rural Industry Information Papers-  that for March 1978- gives a table showing the stabilisation fund and supplementary assistance for the apple industry. I hope that my arithmetic is correct and that the answer is that in the seven seasons covered by that table the Commonwealth Government paid $ 17.61m into the stabilisation fund; it actually paid $ 17.68m to apple growers; and the growers themselves contributed $103,000. In addition, supplementary assistance of over $3,300,000 was paid to apple growers. We come then to the pear section of that table. The Commonwealth has paid $ 1.233m into the pear industry section stabilisation fund. Compare that figure with the $ 17.61m provided for the apple industry. The fund paid $ 1.373m to the growers and the growers themselves paid in $169,000. In addition, no supplementary assistance was available to pear growers until the welcome statement in the most recent announcement by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  I acknowledge that the pear export industry is far smaller than the apple industry, but not to the extent of the difference shown in that table. I am not knocking the apple industry. All I am saying is that I believe that the pear industry has not received fair, equitable and relative treatment. At least - 
-With a pair like those two honourable members involved, I am not sure that it would help the pear growers at all. I think there would be a rotten core to the whole business. Because of those interjections, I want to make this point, which I have made to the Minister in a number of ways: If support for the apple industry is increased to $2.20 assistance to the pear industry should have been increased at least proportionately to about $1.1 continue to make that point. As the Labor Party forgot all about the pear industry section of the scheme, it is not much good supporting its amendment. If it suddenly decided to support it, my level of reality would not agree to go with its level of cynicism on that amendment. Let me make that point at this stage. 
I hope not to stand on any pears because it would be a fairly unstable situation. I make these points: The industry generally supports what the Government has done; the outlook for both the fresh pear industry and the fresh apple industry is considerably brighter, at least in the short term, than it has been at times in the past; the industries have had to adjust most painfully to the new situation; the Labor Party when in power and until its newfound interest in this subject did not assist the industries at all; all of its decisions were in the other direction, to cause further harm; its amendment on this occasion shows its cynical approach to the industry and that it has not done its homework on the subject. One can indicate in another way its newfound interest in apples and pears: Members of the Labor Party have not asked one question on apples and pears or the apple and pear industry in the Budget session 1977, the Autumn session 1978 and the Budget session 1978. A check of  Hansard  and other papers indicates that not one question about the apple and pear industry has been asked by any member of the ALP. That is a quite dramatic illustration of the degree of their interest in this subject. 
I support the legislation. I recommend to all those people who have a genuine interest in this industry to acknowledge the Labor Party amendment for what it is- a cynical political exercise at the lowest level to embarrass Tasmanians. I also make the point that my friend the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  who represents many apple growers in Queensland, was anxious to speak on this subject. However, because I represent most of the pear exporters of this country as well as many apple exporters he courteously has given his place to me. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 10 May 1 978: 
1 ) What advisory or consultative committees has he established or continued which include members of parliament. 
Which members and senators are included on these committees. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 10 May 1 978: 
What advisory or consultative committees has he established or continued which include members of parliament 
Which members and senators are included on these committees. 
-The dairy industry research and promotion levy was introduced by the Liberal-Country Party Government in 1972 to allow for the implementation of a more definite dairy industry research and promotion program. In 1976 the levy was widened to include market or human consumption milk as well as milk used for manufacturing. The purpose of these Bills is to close a loophole which allowed some co-operative dairy factories and the farmers who supplied them to avoid their responsibility to the national dairy industry. This legislation closes this escape not only by requiring the levy to be paid when the factory assumes ownership of the milk and then either sells it or manufactures it into dairy products but also by requiring factories which sell or process on behalf of the producer to pay the levy. It also validates past payments by factories. 
I wish to refer in some detail to the research aspect of this legislation. Dairy farmers, through the levy, pay for research on a dollar for dollar basis with the Government. This is similar to all other primary industry research schemes. I believe that there is a lesson for the Government and the community in this shared financial arrangement, that is, the sharing of the cost of research. Many sectors in our community claim that their area of interest should receive research grants from the Government or additional research grants from the Government. The National Health and Medical Research Council makes grants for medical research. Grants are made in the fields of industry and science and for social science research. These other interest groups are claiming that more money should be spent on research in their areas. I have not heard one of them put forward the proposition that it is prepared to enter into a cost sharing arrangement with this Government. I am sure that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  who is sitting at the table at present, would be very pleased to hear from the Australian Medical Association and others in the medical fraternity that they would be prepared to put some money in with the funds which the Government is putting forward and so share in the cost of medical research. I know that the Minister has suggested that. 
I believe that the farmers of this country have shown the way to the rest of the community. The net incomes of people in other sectors of the community, whether they be doctors, people in industry or social welfare workers, are higher than those of the farmers. No matter how small farmers' incomes have been, even if they have had negative incomes on a technical basis, they still have been required to pay and have gladly paid the research levy. I believe that the farmers are showing the way to the rest of the country in practical self-help. They will put up money for research on a dollar for dollar basis with the Government. I would like to see that practice extended beyond the farming community to others who say that more should be spent on research. 
The sixth annual report of the Dairying Research Committee- that for the year ended 30 June 1978- has just been tabled in the Parliament. The Dairying Research Committee administers the dairy research grants. I compliment those involved with this Committee on their very prompt compilation of this report. I note from the report that $935,618 was approved for expenditure in the year just ended. That is not a huge amount, I acknowledge; but progress certainly is being made. That amount was allocated as follows: Farm research, $310,604; manufacturing research, $455,8 14; and other projects, including education grants, et cetera, $169,200. I have discussed the work of this Committee with John Bennett, the  President  of the Austraiian Dairy Farmers Federation and one of the four dairy farmer representatives on the Committee. He stated that it is hoped that greater emphasis will be placed on applied or 'on farm' research, that is, the type of research that can have immediate or almost immediate application at the farm level. 
There is also a need, of course, for greater emphasis on ensuring that farmers are aware of research results and are in a position to apply these results. There is a general proposition to reduce the application gap- the time between when something is discovered and sorted out to a reasonable degree and when the farmers actually apply it. I understand that part of this new emphasis will be a greater concentration on a whole farm management approach rather than on a series of unconnected and unrelated sectors. This appears to me to be good common sense. We must look- I can refer to the dairy farmers I represent in the Goulburn Valley and northern irrigation area of Victoria- at dairy farms and see where the major bottlenecks are, that is, those parts of management which require inordinate time or capital relative to the other parts of the management structure or which are becoming increasingly difficult as herd sizes increase and labour becomes harder to retain. 
One could think of some of these bottlenecks as a part of the whole management approach. One is the problem of the time taken to milk cows. This still can be a problem, when one considers that the average herd size has increased so dramatically in the last few years. But, with the reasonably universal use now of herringbones, the increasing confidence returning to the industry and the greater availability of rotary cow sheds, this is not a major bottleneck. In my area, which as I said earlier is an irrigation dairy area, the actual timing and application of irrigation can be a bottleneck. In some cases farmers can milk more cows than they can grow food for. To a certain extent this is being overcome by new irrigation techniques, such as the use of the laser beam in land layout. This is of interest because one of the first commercial applications for the laser has found its way into agriculture and into the use of what we call an automatic or a semiautomatic grading mechanism to improve water flow. One can speak also of some of the more expensive automatic irrigation systems. I think the majority of dairy farmers will require a better financial situation before they can look at those. 
Haymaking is a particular problem. The problem lies in the time taken to make it, cart it and feed it out. There is also a problem in relation to the actual amount of hay that is required to sustain cows during the low feed periods. A comparison of my area with the major dairying areas of New Zealand indicated that the average New Zealand dairy farmer requires to conserve only one-third the amount of hay a year conserved by our dairy farmers. This is partly due to their climate. God was very kind to New Zealanders. They can grow grass more easily than farmers anywhere else in the world. They have a better winter growing ability for grass because of their climate. I believe that they have done more homework on the question of management of their stock in order to reduce the amount of hay required during the short feed period. I think this is one of the points that John Bennett is making. One also reads in the report of the work that has been done in the application of large package hay systems to dairy farming. I commend that work because this appears to be a way to reduce the amount of labour required for the handling of the necessary hay. By a 'large package' I mean, not the rectangular bale, but a round bale which is equivalent to about 20 to 25 ordinary bales, or one of the other mini-stack systems. 
Another area which is quite a problem with increasing herd size is the question of actually joining the cattle, or getting the cows in calf. This is partly due to infertility problems and management problems of a large herd, but it is also due to the problem of observation of heat periods of a large number of cows. There have been some interesting developments in this area, but much remains to be done. The actual length of the milking period- that is, the actual lactation period- of the cows is also of interest. One can see at home partly due to the new arrangements for the provision of liquid milk for human consumption purposes in Victoria a trend to a shorter milking period. This also reflects the attitude in New Zealand where I think farmers to a greater extent than we do have a shorter and more concentrated milking period. We need to undertake some research in this area to ascertain the advantages and disadvantages of that approach to managing a herd. This to me is also part of the overall management concept of a dairy farmer on his farm. 
Related to the concentrated milking period in New Zealand is the fact that farmers in that country do not need as much hay. That provides a better recreation period for them. If the farmer is to increase productivity- we hope that through this research system he will- he will have two options. He will have either to increase production or to provide some time for recreation. This is something that is quite often forgotten. Farmers are the only people in our society who are expected somehow or other to work and work and increase productivity. The question of recreation which is seen as a right by the rest of the community is not seen as a right to farmers. I hope that in the development of increasing productivity through this research system farmers will be able to take their fair share of recreation along with others in this community. 
The implementation of this research requires a confidence in the future by those who are engaged in the industry. I think of confidence in the future in two ways. Firstly the age structure of those in the industry should be such that they will take risks. This is quite a problem not only for dairying but also for agriculture generally. It does not apply just in Australia, in fact the position in some other countries is worse than it is here. The average age of farmers is rising and as the average age rises the willingness to take risks is reduced. There was an interesting visit to Parliament last week by Professor Fraser who is Professor of Sociology at Massey University. Earlier this year when I was in New Zealand I witnessed some of the field work for a hill study which was attempting in the hill country behind Wanganui in the North Island to assess the willingness of farmers to take risks- in other words, to invest in new capital to increase livestock and so forth. That study appears to have come up with a rather surprising result. Previous opinion on the subject was that farmers up to the age of about 40 or perhaps 45 were prepared to take risks for the future. As a result of the survey the group conducting the study is now inclined to the view that the age at which a farmer turns off and starts to play safe is far lower than what was originally thought and could be as low as in the twenties. It found that by the time a farmer reaches 30 or 35 years of age he is not prepared to take risks. For a dynamic kind of agriculture which we have and which I hope will continue this is a very serious message for us, if that particular study has application elsewhere. 
The other point I make in relation to risk taking is that farmers not only need confidence in the future and in receiving a certain level of income but also need the level of income that allows them to put a deposit on the extra livestock units or machinery, whatever they may need. I hope that as a result of the underwriting arrangements that this Government has introduced and has improved the measures taken by the industry itself, some with government support and some without government support, to stabilise the industry will provide this most necessary confidence so that our dairying industry can remain at the forefront of the technically efficient dairy industries in the world. I support the legislation. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to possible contradictory projections on world meat demand by 198S by the Food and Agriculture Organisation which predicts an increasing meat deficit to that time and by the United States projections which indicate a slump in the beef cycle at that time. 
Is he able to indicate which of the projections is accurate. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is he aware that the proposed reduction in daytime STD rates, of 20 per cent for 50-85 kilometres and 10 per cent for 85-165 kilometres, is being criticised by decentralised industry representatives as being of great value to those in the metropolitan fringe areas and of no value to industries and people living more than 165 kilometres from State capital cities? Will the Minister request Telecom to prepare a further series of STD daytime reductions which will be of value to those who live beyond the 165 kilometre mark and who, at the present time, are the most disadvantaged by Telecom 's policy. 
-First of all, I welcome back the new honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin),  one time honourable member for Macarthur, a man for whom on a personal basis I have considerable respect. This morning, I wish to correct a widely-held view in this country that New Zealand agriculture is less subsidised than Australian agriculture and that, therefore, New Zealand agriculture is somehow more efficient and its products are deserving of easy admission to Australia. This view has been promoted by the New Zealanders and has been encouraged by the city media. Before developing this argument, I say that in both countries farmers as exporters suffer by comparison with their counterparts in other countries; that is, they generally receive less government assistance and they suffer greater cost disabilities because of the higher level of protection accorded to manufacturing and tertiary industries than do their counterparts in other countries. 
The view that New Zealand farmers are less subsidised has been incorrect for many years. Because the New Zealand Government concentrated on input incentive subsidies rather than price support, New Zealanders were able to say that their products received no direct government price support. Their indirect subsidies for years have amounted in total to far higher levels of assistance than the assistance available to Australian farmers. Those indirect subsidies are too numerous to detail. When delivering the 1978 Budget on 1 June, the New Zealand Prime Minister and Minister for Finance, the Rt Hon. R. D. Muldoon, said: 
The Government has altered the thrust of its agricultural policy towards production related measures and away from indiscriminate input subsidies, the sum total of which has been increasing rapidly. 
In other words, that dramatic change in New Zealand 's policy ended any fiction about its agricultural industry. Before explaining what  Mr Muldoon  actually said, I should refer to the development of commodity stabilisation schemes in New Zealand in the 1970s. Stabilisation arrangements for dairy products, wool, meat and apples, were either introduced or developed to include price smoothing mechanisms in an endeavour to provide a conservative minimum price and to reduce the degree of year to year price fluctuation. These schemes were declared to be self-financing and, to the New Zealand farmer's credit, he was more prepared than his Australian counterpart to contribute to the stabilisation fund when prices were high. However, this declaration was more of a hope than a fact. The meat price smoothing scheme is known to be not self-financing in the long term and one of the dairy pools has been in debt to the Reserve Bank by about $70m. The Bank advances money for these stabilisation funds at a one per cent interest rate, with no time scale for repayment. So the difference between loan and grant or subsidy is very fine. I remind honourable members that advances by our Reserve Bank to statutory marketing boards in Australia are made at about a 10 per cent interest rate. 
On top of this very elaborate mechanism of stabilisation schemes and the plethora of other government assistance measures for agriculture, the New Zealand Prime Minister has announced a supplementary minimum prices scheme. I quote what he has said: 
The Government has decided to establish and underwrite new minimum prices to supplement those set under the stabilisation schemes operated by the Producer Boards. 
These prices will be set for two years ahead and will give farmers an assured and realistic base for forward planning. Producer boards will continue to operate their own price support schemes but, where they fall short of the new Government supplementary minimum price, additional payments will be made. These are the key words of the New Zealand Prime Minister: 
Deficits incurred in making these supplementary payments will be met by the Government. 
So, once and for all, that ends the fiction that New Zealand farmers do not receive direct government subsidy on a production basis. The level of this subsidy could be quite high. For dairy farmers the guaranteed supplementary minimum price introduced by the Government to apply for the next two years- I stress that it is for two years- will be 180c a kilo for butterfat in milk, which is the equivalent of 83c a pound. For wool it will be 205c a kilogram greasy. All the prices for meat are based on live weight. For lamb the guaranteed supplementary minimum price will be 70c a kilo, for mutton it will be 30c a kilo, for cow beef it will be 70c a kilo and for prime ox beef it will be 80c a kilo. 
Let us compare this with the situation in Australia. First of all, the level of wages in New Zealand is about two-thirds what it is in Australia. So many of the costs incurred by New Zealand farmers amount to two-thirds of the costs of our farmers. In total, New Zealand farmers are also receiving, since the introduction of the livestock incentive scheme- that is one of the indirect subsidy measures which was introduced a couple of years ago- about $45m to encourage them to increase their livestock production. Also, as I said, the guaranteed supplementary minimum price for dairy farmers will be 83c a pound. If the Australian States reach an agreement or take their share of responsibility for underwriting, Australian dairy farmers will get 80c less than New Zealand farmers; and many of the costs of New Zealand farmers are two-thirds our costs. 
In addition, the New Zealand dairy farmer is to receive a $5 a head special grant for every cow he milks- one could go into the other livestock industries to obtain similar examples- and $2 a head for every additional cow put to artificial insemination. The fertiliser subsidy in New Zealand has been increased to $32 a ton, compared with $12 a ton in Australia. The New Zealand farmer also receives a special transport subsidy and application subsidy for the fertiliser that he uses. Assistance schemes to dairy farmers in New Zealand will cost the New Zealand Government about $90m this year. That means many thousands of dollars of actual direct government subsidy support will be given to every dairy farmer in that country. In addition, all livestock producers, including dairy farmers, in New Zealand are being encouraged to increase their production, not to reduce it as in Australia. 
Through the new scheme, wool prices in Australia and New Zealand will be roughly comparable, allowing for greasy-clean conversions, comparable wool types, et cetera. The only difference I can see is that the New Zealand Wool Board starts buying in at a higher price than occurs in Australia. That would give the New Zealand producers a slight advantage. With meat, apart from the advantage to the New Zealand producer compared with the Australian producer that I mentioned earlier, New Zealanders have a real advantage in their minimum price scheme. We have no such scheme, which means that in Australia prices at livestock markets can vary by up to 20 per cent week to week. It would be impossible for that to happen in New Zealand. 
I have checked last week's edition of  Stock and Land,  dated 21 September, for the calculated dressed weight prices for Newmarket. Honourable members should remember that we have to make an allowance for dressed weight compared with live weight. We see that the price of ox beef is 40c a kilogram; for cow beef it is 35c; for lamb it is 36c; and for mutton it is 27c. So from these comparisons it appears that, at least for mutton sold in Victoria, the farmer is getting too little. Mutton is far cheaper in this country than it is in New Zealand. The price for ox beef and cow beef is also cheaper in this country than in New Zealand. That means that in addition, to the reduction in price variation the New Zealand Government will provide guaranteed prices to New Zealand farmers. 
I am not being critical of the New Zealand Government for introducing these additional measures to reduce the variability in the income of farmers. I congratulate the New Zealand Government for supporting its farmers better than we do. I commend their farmer organisations for being more constructive and more selfdisciplined in their negotiations with government. I also commend the average New Zealander for his far greater awareness of the importance of and the cost disabilities incurred by agriculture in that country, compared with the abysmal apathy, or envy, or bias held by the average person in this country towards agriculture. The point I want to make is that our two countries are generally the two most efficient and least subsidised of any of the Western nations, but until now the incorrect view has been promoted that of the two countries Australian farmers receive more government assistance, particularly in price support and other input assistance schemes, than their New Zealand counterparts. The new supplementary minimum price scheme introduced in the recent New Zealand Budget ends once and for all that fiction and, with it, any basis for any consumer, media, or government department sympathy for a soft approach to agricultural exports to Australia from New Zealand. 
I want to comment on general health and welfare policies for country people and on some of the things which have been done and on those which remain to be done. I refer in the broadest terms to the welfare aspects of Federal Government assistance as distinct from commodity or industry policy, that is, assistance which attempts to alleviate the day to day problems encountered by country people to a greater degree or to reduce the cost disadvantage of those country people compared with city people. The present Liberal-National Country Party Government which came to power in 1 976 was, I believe, the first Federal Government seriously to address itself to this problem. I have been critical in the past of my own party, the National Country Party, for having too narrow a view of rural assistance which concentrated mainly on industry assistance plus some transport and communication assistance. I acknowledge that much is still to be done in this area and that there is still room for criticism. Generally progress is being made. I am proud of some of the Government's initiatives which I will detail. 
Let me refer to the Australian Labor Party and its attitude in this area. Labor, when in office, reduced- in fact, it virtually abolished- rural industry assistance. It claimed that the massive injection of finance which it was providing for the cities would help country people because of the general criteria of allocation. I believe that the Labor Party was genuine but naive in its belief. It was not aware that general welfare principles would exclude country areas. The country areas are different and have different needs. They require different criteria. I acknowledge that the Labor Government commissioned several reports, particularly the rural health report, which are of value in this area. 
The first thing this Government did when it came back into office was to change the criteria for the payment of unemployment benefit in respect of farmers. This was done in May 1976. The Government removed the criteria that a farmer must actually cease to be a farmer or leave the farm to be eligible. The high point of payment of unemployment benefit to farmers was reached in August 1976 when 2,475 farmers were receiving part or full unemployment benefit. They were mainly dairy and fruit farmers. The figure indicates the severe recession within those industries at the time. A year later, in August 1977, 1,104 farmers were receiving unemployment benefit. In March this year the number was 869. I believe that these figures reflect the improved agricultural situation particularly in the two industries to which I have referred. 
There are still disadvantages, disabilities and discrimination for farmers in this situation. The income test is very severe. It is not a weekly test, it is an annual test. I have noted some of the problems that farmers are having with the assessments of social security officers. I have been informed that a number of officers have automatically rejected farmers who have applied for unemployment benefit without asking them to undergo an income and work test as required. Some real problems exist with some social security officers who have an ideological opposition to the payment of any benefit to a self-employed person. There is still the problem that many selfemployed people, other than farmers, who are currently unemployed are still completely excluded. This, to me, is an injustice. A high percentage of these live in country areas. 
Household support was introduced in 1 977 in part recognition of the need to meet the more specific needs of farmers in financial trouble who were considering leaving agriculture. This has not been a great success. This is partly the fault of the States which administer the scheme and partly the fault of the criteria. I believe the scheme is worth preserving, but it has to be improved. This illustrates the difficulty of tailoring schemes to meet the different requirements of agriculture and country people. Another measure introduced early in the life of the Government was the abolition of the old property and income test, in other words the means test, and the replacement of it by a single income test. Honourable members will recall that a notional 10 per cent return on capital was applied on any property as part of the old means test. This discriminated against small business people in two ways. I remind honourable members that country areas have a very high percentage of small business people such as farmers, store keepers, agents, manufacturers and so forth. These people have a higher percentage of their total assets tied up in capital. Therefore this scheme worked against them. The criteria of 10 per cent was applied even if the business was actually running at a loss. It was an absurd situation and resulted in a far lower percentage of country people being eligible for pensions than justice required. I am glad to say that we corrected the position. 
Country people suffer great disadvantages in regard to the availability and cost of health services. The Government has recognised this problem and is doing something about it in two ways. First of all, a number of experiments have been conducted in the provision of health services to country people. From 1 October the isolated patients travel and accommodation scheme will commence. This will reduce the cost burden of country people who require specialist medical attention in a distant city. The criteria is 200 kilometres from the nearest city where a specialist practices. Patients pay only the first $20 of the travel cost. The Government also pays the first $15 of accommodation required. Accommodation and travel costs include those of a parent or another person required to accompany the patient. Telephone and postal services are a tremendous burden to country people because of the quality of the services and the cost involved. Much remains to be done in this area- the majority of the work remains to be done- but I believe that this Government is genuinely trying to reduce these disabilities. 
There are problems with the Australian Telecommunications Commission. The first is the high trunk call charges for all people in country areas because of the time and distance charge rate. This is a particular problem to country industries which have to deal with distant capital cities. There is the problem of local call areas which force many people to make a trunk call to contact the nearest business centre. Another problem is the cost of installation and maintenance of telephone lines in rural areas. The speed and frequency of postal services is also a problem. What have we done in relation to Telecom? Labor reduced the free line entitlement to 8 kilometres. We extended it to 12 kilometres. We have further extended it to 16 kilometres. There is also a better annual payment option for those people in distant areas of a maximum of $500 rental instead of the cost of construction which is sometimes $15,000 or $20,000. Experiments are being conducted with radio telephones in isolated areas. Another measure is the substantial reduction in off-peak and weekend trunk calls from 1 September for non-continuous exchanges. 
I am talking about welfare which I believe comes under the heading of social security. I will wind up on that area and see what you think of the next section of my speech. Other reductions in subscriber trunk dialling charges will also be of considerable value such as the daytime 20 per cent rebate for 50 kilometres to 85 kilometres. These measures have been criticised but I believe that they are of tremendous value. We are thinking not only of the distance to a capital city, but also of the distance between regional centres. I will not try my luck any further in this area although I believe that improvements are being made in a number of other Telecom services. 
Another tremendous welfare problem concerns education in country areas. It involves, first of all, the physical ability to attend school. I acknowledge that the Labor Government introduced the isolated children's assistance scheme for those children who did not have reasonable physical ability to attend a school. We have provided a number of other forms of special assistance such as boarding assistance. The second problem for country children is the limited facilities and opportunities available to them in their subject range and curricula activities. The Government is experimenting with the country education project to help to overcome some of these problems. In regard to tertiary education, the means test for the living away from home allowance which country people require to attend colleges of advanced education or universities does not recognise particular problems of country people. 
The fuel freight equalisation scheme and grants to local government are also of tremendous benefit to country people. I believe that the defence service homes scheme in particular comes within the area we are talking about as an example of the special arrangements we have made to provide for the needs of country people. Many problems and disadvantages in this broad aspect of welfare remain- I believe that it is tremendously important to talk about broad aspects of welfare in debates such as this- but I am confident that this Government is the first government since Federation which is genuinely trying to do something for the welfare problems in country areas. Thank you for your indulgence,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 2 1 September 1 978: 
1 ) Is he able to say what are the details of the Production Protection Program recently put to Congress by the United States Department of Agriculture to replace the existing disaster relief and crop insurance programs. 
If so, what progress has it made. 
Is he also able to say what are the details of the existing program. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 21 September 1978: 
) What research is being conducted in Australia into the cause and transmission of Australian Arbo Encephalitis, of treatment procedures and of a possible vaccine. 
Which of this research is being sponsored by (a) the Commonwealth and ( b ) each of the States. 
What arrangements exist for (a) co-operative Commonwealth-State discussions (b) early warning systems and (c) an official announcement procedure for this disease. 
What are the responsibilities of State governments in respect of this disease. 
In some States, is their ability to efficiently carry out these responsibilities reduced by divided departmental authority. 
Which States have a single or co-ordinated authority to more effectively administer their responsibility with this disease. 
-Is the Minister for Trade and Resources aware that European Economic Community fruit processors are being paid subsidies which will enable them to compete on better terms with imported canned fruit? What steps is the Government taking to protect the interests of the Australian fruit canning industry in this important export market? Furthermore, with regard to canned fruit, can the Minister advise whether he has yet received any response from the Canadian Government as a result of his efforts to persuade that Government not to eliminate our tariff preference on canned fruit going to that market? 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 26 September 1978: 
1 ) What are the present wholesale petrol prices in each of the centres from which the Government's fuel freight subsidy equalisation scheme is calculated, and what were they on 1 August 1978. 
What is the maximum permitted wholesale price above these prices after allowing for freight and the effect of the Government's fuel freight equalisation subsidy scheme. 
) Is the scheme now operating in every State. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, perhaps we could just drop the rhetoric and the emotion for a little while and look at a few of the points that have been raised at the Committee stage. I would like to make some points particularly to those members of the Labor Party who were not here in 1974 and 1975. 
If the honourable member for Batman would just listen for a moment he might learn something. Honourable members opposite have been critical of our taxing pensions. But who introduced the taxing of pensions? Who started taxing pensions in this country? It was the Labor Government. 
Let us look at this question of discriminating against those in certain groups who have the greatest need. I can remember very vividly the question of taxing the aged blind, those 65 years and over, who were in the greatest need perhaps of any group in our community. Yet suddenly these blind people who had been on a tax free pension for most of their lives were hit with the taxation of their pensions. That was done by a Labor Government. We also hear from members of the Opposition that the general unemployment benefit level or sickness benefit level is not good enough. Several speakers have mentioned that matter this afternoon. But if one were to look at the general benefits as a percentage of average weekly earnings at present and compare them with their level when Labor was in power, one would find that today they are the same or at least as good. 
There has also been criticism of the freeze on certain benefits. Honourable members opposite were getting a little carried away with themselves until they were reminded that it was the Labor Government which introduced, in its last Budget in August 1975, the freeze on unemployment benefits paid to those under 1 8 years of age. If members of the Opposition are now asking for the reasons for the freeze on this other group, perhaps it could be said that the reasons are the same as those which applied when they introduced the freeze in 1975. 1 clearly remember that at that time there was an absurd situation in which young apprentices were actually receiving less per week than the young unemployed. At that time the Ministers saw the sense of imposing a freeze and they acted. If honourable members opposite want information about why the freeze was imposed and about the different level for the sickness benefit and the unemployment benefit in situations in which there are dependants they could ask their leaders, who were at that time Ministers. If honourable members opposite want answers on the whole range of criticisms that have been made this afternoon they had better check with their own leaders because their own leaders introduced most of these things when they were in government. 
-The three Bills that we are debating complete the changes to the national health scheme which began with some legislation earlier this year. This legislation in turn followed an inquiry and review by the Hospital and Health Sevices Commission under  Dr Sax.  That inquiry commenced last year and its report, entitled 'A Discussion Paper on Paying for Health Care', was published in February of this year. The point I want to make is that many of the final recommendations of that report have been incorporated in this legislation and that there was certainly an opportunity for an input into this document by those interested in health care. 
The first two Bills, the National Health Act Amendment Bill and the Health Insurance Amendment Bill, really concern the new arrangements and basically they are relative to the medical aspects of the national health scheme. As I understand it, the new hospital arrangements with the States are still being finalised and are to be announced some time in the future. I hope that these are the last significant changes to the national health scheme for many years. I say that for two reasons. One is that people are confused with the changes introduced in the last four years by both governments. The second is that the new arrangements, to my way of thinking, meet the criteria of what Australians want in a national health scheme. I will detail the criteria. The first criterion is that any scheme be simple and understandable, and the scheme which is coming in is certainly an improvement on the one it is replacing with regard to simplicity and being understood, but because of the confusion in the general public's mind with all the changes it is most important that the Government has an educational advertising scheme so that people are aware of what the new scheme is, what they may have to do, what their rights are and so on. I know that the Government has embarked on this. 
The second criterion is that it continues the universality of the national health scheme. There is the 40 per cent universal rebate with the $20 gap as the maximum payment, free hospital accommodation in standard wards and the 75 per cent and 85 per cent billing arrangements. I believe it can be said that no Australian will be refused health care in this country or will be unable to get it because of his financial position. The third criterion is freedom of choice. Australians have shown consistently that they desire freedom of choice, whether it be with a range of health funds, private accommodation or the different types of hospital accommodation. Even in the days of Medibank Mark I, I think that over 57 per cent of Australians still had private health insurance. That indicates that the attitude of the average Australian is that he wants a range or a choice. 
The fourth criterion is that the choice that is being given to him should be available at a reasonable cost. I think that the announcements that are coming out at present indicate that it is within the reach of almost all Australians, if they desire to take advantage of that choice. The fifth criterion is some flexibility in the options that are provided. One of the significant points of this legislation is that greater flexibility is to be given to the health funds with different tables, optional arrangements and so forth. I note the comment of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  in his second reading speech about the safeguards for those who may be presently with a fund which is providing just an optional table which may not include such things as continued payments for the termination of pregnancy so that nobody is caught financially. Also the average Australian will be able to transfer between the various tables in the funds without any waiting period within a certain time scale. 
The sixth criterion is the greater accountability that this scheme will bring to the patient and the provider of the health care so that there will be greater acknowledgement and realisation of the real cost of health care and the need in this country to reduce not the cost but the growth rate of health costs in Australia. I believe that the Minister is to be congratulated because it is now becoming apparent that he has significantly slowed the escalating costs of health care in this country. I would hope that these changes will take us further along that path. I will be very interested in the new hospital arrangements when the Minister announces them because 60 per cent of our total health care costs is in hospitals. In other words, the significant area for accountability for health care and value for money with health care is still to come. But I note the progress that the Minister for Health, who is at the table, has already made. We are proceeding with hospital accreditation for the first time. Peer review is on the way but I would hope that peer review includes not only hospitals but also private practice and that the health funds themselves will introduce utilisation review procedures so that they can keep some accountability through their system. 
We are looking at the bed-patient ratios in the country. The Minister has already made certain announcements of a better division in the future between chronic and acute beds for patients. I ask the Minister to look hard at a couple of other things which I think are important to the future of controlling health care costs in this country. The first is the output of doctors and other health professionals. I refer not only to those who are graduating from medical schools in Australia because we are already well ahead of the projections and have reached the numbers that were not going to occur for many years. The second is the almost automatic entry of migrant doctors into this country. I come from a country area and it can be said that this is the only way a country town can get a doctor, but time after time a migrant doctor goes to a country town, stays there for 12 months and heads off to the big city. In the long run I am not sure that we are really making progress through this practice. The third point that I put to the Minister is that sooner or later  T  believe that we will have to introduce a participating doctor scheme in the medical benefits area so that those doctors who genuinely believe in a free enterprise system can be allowed to practice free enterprise medicine but not say that they want it on the one hand and claim from a government on the other hand. 
The third Bill, the Health Insurance Commission Bill, is consequential to the first two Bills. It is consequential upon the abolition of Medibank Standard and the Government's decision to arrange the 40 per cent benefit payment and other payments through the private funds and the Department of Health rather than through the Health Insurance Commission. With this legislation Medibank Private will be removed from the control of the Public Service Board. In the words of the Minister:   . . Medibank Private will operate in a competitive position with other health insurance organisations and should be in as flexible a position as possible, having in mind that there is a statutory relationship with the Commonwealth as a Commonwealth authority. - 
In other words, a statutory authority similar to Trans-Australia Airlines or Qantas Ltd. I suppose that this is a rather unique Australian approach, with our mixed economy, with a government statutory authority competing with private enterprise. I see nothing wrong with Medibank Private being established or developed on this basis, but there are some questions in relation to this matter. Should the Government have retained the Health Insurance Commission for the Commonwealth payments under the bulk billing procedures and so on? That proposition has certainly been put by the Opposition in its foreshadowed amendment. The Minister stated that there are advantages with the new arrangements. After quite a few hours of discussions that the committee of which I am a member had with the Minister we accepted the particular points that he made. 
The next query concerns the necessity for the provision of comprehensive and early statistics on the health care of the nation. It has been a recurring criticism ever since I have taken an interest in this subject in Parliament that there is inadequate data for real or correct decisionmaking in the health care area. One could say that that goes for other areas as well, but I am referring only to health at the moment. I am reassured by the Minister that progress is being made and that part of the arrangement with the health funds is to ensure that this progress on this provision of information continues. The Minister refers to this in his second reading speech and it is included in the legislation. 
The next query is whether Medibank Private will be completely independent and genuinely competitive with the private health funds. Once again the Minister has given an assurance that the distribution of assets and liabilities regarding Medibank Private will be fair and businesslike, that Medibank Private will be subject to the Audit Act and that it will generally act as an independent authority. That brings with it some problems for Medibank Private, particularly in the short term. Will Medibank Private be able to compete adequately against the private health funds? I ask that question because the terms and conditions of its employees, including those people transferred to it from the Health Insurance Commission, will be those that are enjoyed by the Public Service. Those of us who have never been part of the Public Service believe that those terms and conditions are more generous than the terms and conditions generally available in the private sector. One could say that they are over-generous, particularly in the case of superannuation. So this will be a burden for Medibank Private. 
However, one point of interest in this regard is that the Minister has obtained a new arrangement for Medibank Private. In future, new employees taken on as the inevitable staff rollover takes place will have an option of either taking up Public Service superannuation, which I understand is the basis on which the other statutory authorities operate, or they will have the opportunity to join a scheme which Medibank Private itself will introduce and which Medibank Private believes it can operate more economically and tailor more beneficially to the requirements of its employees. If my understanding is correct, this is the first time that such an option has been provided for a statutory authority. 
I want to commend the Minister for the way he has handled this difficult task. I believe that he has successfully negotiated this new scheme, particularly in view of all the changes that automatically flow in legislation and so forth and the discussions he has had with employees of the Health Insurance Commission. Also, I think he should be - 
If the honourable gentleman had been here and had listened he would have heard my attitude to any further changes to the national health scheme. It pays to listen sometimes. I also want to commend the Minister on the introduction of a longstanding Liberal and National Country party health policy, namely, giving dentists the ability or the power to prescribe a limited number of drugs. We have been advocating this change for quite a few years and I am glad to see that we have achieved our objective at last. 
I have outlined basically the changes proposed in the Bills. The Opposition and other critics of the Government and the health scheme cannot claim that the Government is being mean financially in respect of the proposed changes because it is estimated that there will be an additional cost to government of approximately $620m in a full year. Also, the  2Vi  per cent Medibank levy has been abolished. I believe that when we consider this point together with the new tables that are being announced we will see that the public is being given not only a good choice but also a good deal. The views of  Dr Richard  Scotton, one of the architects of the original Medibank, or Medibank Mark I, are contained in an article written by Claude Forell which appeared in the Melbourne  Age  of Thursday 17 August. He stated: 
With remarkable audacity, the Federal Government, under the guise of abolishing Medibank, has restored it to something approaching its original concept. 
Certainly the simplicity and the universality are there. He also commented on other aspects of the changes, including the likely reaction of people to the new insurance arrangements. Many other people, including the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  who opened for the Opposition in this debate tonight, have said the same thing. The honourable member put forward the proposition that a person would be a fool to insure. I would like to put forward a different view and to take issue with the honourable member in this regard. I would like to give a warning to people who might think that they can carry their own insurance. Certainly the Government will pay 40 per cent of the scheduled fee and there will be a $20 gap. Also, there is provision for free standard ward accommodation if that is what people want. But if this sort of attitude becomes prevalent I would think that a number of people, particularly family groups who would not have the financial resources to withstand some of the bouts of illness or accidents that occur from time to time, could be enticed not to insure. After all, that is what insurance is all about- to protect oneself against unfortunate unlikely situations which we hope will never occur but which quite often do occur. I certainly suggest that people would be most unwise not to insure. I believe they should insure. They should work out what appears to them to be a reasonable basis of safety and security, using the insurance principle as they would in other areas of insurance, and then take out the insurance cover that they believe to be necessary. 
Many people in this debate who have questioned the need to insure forget another aspectthat is if one does not bother to take out hospital insurance one will not have the doctor of one's choice when one enters a hospital. The majority of Australians have expressed the view that they want the doctor of their choice when they go into hospital. However, much of the advice that has been given suggests that people should ignore this point. In fact in many cases this point has not been mentioned at all. I hope that the Minister will take this matter into account when advertising the new scheme and what people should take into consideration. If people adopt this 'carry your own insurance' approach they should not forget that in making that decision they could be in a difficult situation. Not only will they be reducing their freedom of choice but also they will not have the doctor of their choice when they go into hospital. 
I said at the beginning of my speech that I hope this is the last fundamental change to our national health scheme for many years. I acknowledge that possibly there will be some changes or some tightening up in procedures when the hospital arrangements are announced later. That is accepted. However, I hope there will not be another fundamental change for the whole system. Some fine tuning might be necessary because at present we are really only 'guesstimating'- if honourable members do not think that is an appropriate word I will say estimating- the degree of public reaction. We do not know how much insurance will be handled in the private sector and how much will be handled in the public sector. Therefore the actual government budgetary commitment to the new national health scheme may be somewhat different from that estimated at the present time. If the estimates of the Government are not accurate in this regard- and I do not see how they really can be accurate- maybe the Government will have to do some fine tuning. This will be acceptable if the overall balance of health and health care costs in this country is maintained. I support the legislation and commend the Minister who introduced it in this place. 
-The Opposition's amendment is the shoddiest piece of drafting by the Australian Labor Party that I have seen for a long time. Its previous attempt to amend health legislation was an amendment to the optional deduction arrangement which allowed private health funds an opportunity to opt out of payments for the termination of pregnancy. The shoddy drafting on that occasion forced many members of the Party against their will to vote against providing that option to the private health funds. I know full well that that proposal went against the personal wishes of quite a percentage of members of the party, but the people who drafted the proposal did not think of that. 
Let us look at the shoddy drafting of this amendment. I am sure that the intention of the amendment is to make things harder on the doctor and easier on the patient. In fact, it achieves the opposite result. Before I go into the detail of why that is so, I just draw attention, as did the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges ), to the fact that obviously the Labor Party now considers that Medibank Mark I was too generous and too costly- we have always said thatbecause it is proposing to reduce from 85 per cent to 75 per cent the rebate that would be paid. That part of the amendment which provides for 75 per cent of the common fee to be paid makes no mention of a $10 gap payment or a $20 gap payment. 
For a change the honourable member should look at what the amendment states instead of shooting from the hip. The 75 per cent provision is supposed to make things easier for the patient. If the honourable member looks at the terms of the amendment he will see that no mention is made of a $ 10 gap or $20 gap maximum payment. Under the terms of this amendment, a person who has an item of expenditure to the value of $100 will be required to pay not $20 which is provided for under our scheme but $25, and he will have to pay proportionately more for services which cost more than $ 100. I suggest that the honourable member look at the wording of the amendment. The second paragraph of the amendment states:  for the bulk billing for eligible pensioners at 85 per cent of the common fee in full payment . . . 
No mention is made of a $5 gap maximum payment. 
How can the honourable member for Murray talk about an extra $25, an extra $50 or an extra $ 100? The amendment says 'in full payment '. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)That is not a point of order. 
Let me explain in simple arithmetical terms - 

 -Yes, Mr Deputy Speaker, but at least I have the call which is more than can be said of the honourable member for Prospect at the moment. If the honourable member is saying that there is no need for a $20 gap, a $5 gap or a $10 gap maximum, then I suggest that he thinks again. Paragraph (3) of the amendment makes no mention of any of those gaps. There is no mention of adhering to the common fee. Rather than trying to restrict doctors and making them adhere to the common fee the Opposition's amendment is actually encouraging doctors to charge more than the common fee because it is providing for the payment of 75 per cent of whatever the doctor happens to charge, irrespective of whether or not it is the common fee. The bonanza to the doctors would be unbelievable, not to mention the additional cost to the patient, because the argument put in relation to the first two points in the amendment cannot be applied to the third point. The third point is- I repeat itthat once the fee reaches $100, even if doctors stick to the common fee, the Opposition's amendment would require the patient to pay $25. The discrepancy will increase the higher the service fee. Under our scheme the patient will pay no more than $20 whether the service fee is $400 or more. I suggest that the Opposition withdraw its amendment. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry upon notice, on 2 1 September 1 978: 
1 ) What are the present (a) farm gate costs, (b) transport charges, (c) agents charges, (d) processing charges, (e) delivery costs and (f) retail price for milk used for human consumption in each of the State capital cities and Canberra. 
In each of these cities, when were these prices set and are there any current reviews of their city milk price structure. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 10 May 1978: 
What advisory or consultative committees has he established or continued which include members of parliament. 
Which members and senators are included on these Committees. 
-The Department of Primary Industry does not fit the ordinary pattern of government departments in that most of the significant decisions are made outside the Budget context. I will give some examples of that. Last year the major decision in regard to government assistance to agriculture was the decision of September in which more than $100m was provided in short term assistance to the beef industry. Of course, that decision was not recorded at all in the Budget documents. Stage 1 and then stage 2 of the Government's proposals in relation to the dairy industry were introduced outside the Budget context, and the only recognition of that is the actual cost to the Government of those decisions. The wheat stabilisation scheme proposals will be implemented outside the Budget period, and the decision on the first advance payment for this coming season, which is being made now, once again is outside the Budget period. The revised marketing report on wool will be considered outside the Budget period, and the decision by the Government in relation to the reserve price on wool also falls into that category. One could mention a whole range of agricultural industries. What I am saying is that in looking at government assistance to primary industry, if one looks only at the Budget Papers, one is seeing only a minor part of what the Government is doing to assist agriculture. 
I believe that generally this Government has a good record in providing stability and minimum price arrangements for agriculture. That is so despite the combination of a world commodity recession, the Labor Government's anti-rural policies and also the Labor Government's induced wages explosion which created so many difficulties for farmers. For example, in 1975 the cost price index for agriculture rose by a staggering 30 per cent. We have now reduced this annual increase to the rate of inflation, about 7 per cent or 8 per cent. That is a tremendous achievement to assist agriculture. The big announcement associated with the Budget concerns the new Primary Industry Bank of Australia which will commence business in the immediate future. Its introduction completes a major policy plank of the party to which I belong. Its proposed establishment has been included in our policy for many years and it has been in the joint party policy at least since the 1975 election policy speech. 
I believe that much of the criticism of this Primary Industry Bank stems from a misunderstanding of the difference between concessional interest and low interest. Concessional interest means a lower interest rate than would otherwise be charged on a commercial basis for long period loans. 'Low' means exactly what it states. The Government has never said that the interest rate would be low; it has said that it would be concessional. There is a difference. I think the criticism of interest rates will soon be replaced by a criticism that the bank is not providing enough money for all the applications that will flow in once it announces that it is ready to receive applications. The bank will be swamped by applications for the $50m that initially will be raised. Time will be needed for this bank to develop fully. We as members of parliament will need to watch closely the operation of the bank so that the purpose which we intended is in fact carried out. 
Also in the 1975 policy speech the joint parties supported the introduction of a young farmer establishment scheme. I acknowledge that the setting up of the Primary Industry Bank must have priority over that scheme but there is still a need for it even if the Primary Industry Bank is able to assist many young farmers with their first farm purchase. New Zealand has had a rural bank for many years but it decided that it was not sufficient to provide funds for the first farm purchase of the number of young people who wished to enter agriculture so that agriculture would remain dynamic. New Zealand introduced such a scheme some two years ago. The Government parties have not forgotten the need for a young farmer establishment scheme. Much work already has been done on alternative proposals. I want to make the point that as far as I am concerned the Government will not be allowed to forget that it stated that it supported the concept of the introduction of that scheme. 
A number of major decisions affecting several primary industries will be made this financial year, the year covered by the Budget about which we are talking tonight. The recent High Court of Australia decision confirmed the basis of wheat stabilisation under the current scheme for the coming harvest. In the autumn session of next year, I would presume, new legislation will be introduced for the next five-year stabilisation scheme. I believe that legislation should maintain the authority of the Australian Wheat Board as the sole seller of wheat on both the domestic and export markets. The Wheat Board and the Government should consider why many growers elected to sell their crops outside the Board. There appear to me to be two significant reasons. Firstly, the level of the first advance or initial payment and, secondly, the failure to receive promptly grain delivered by growers, particularly off-grade wheat. 
The Bureau of Agricultural Economics submission to the Industries Assistance Commission in its inquiry on wheat stabilisation proposed an interesting way to improve the initial payment and provide a government guaranteed minimum price. I believe this concept is worth serious consideration by the Government and the industry. After 18 months of debate and discussion the canned fruit industry last week presented to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  a proposal for an acquisition scheme for all canned fruit which is produced in this country. This would prevent the unnecessary price cutting which, for a number of years, has bedevilled the industry and reduced grower returns without improving total sales. Any legislation which might be introduced in the autumn session will be too late for the coming harvest. It is important that the industry work together this season and not return to its usual practice of price cutting so that we can get through the season and have the acquisition legislation brought in next autumn. 
With respect to the dairy industry the IAC draft report on cheese has been made public today. The Government's reaction and decision on this report will be very significant for the future of the dairy industry in this country because cheese is seen as the growth sector of the industry. Cheese is subject to increasing import competition which now makes up 14 per cent of total consumption. Much of that imported cheese is subsidised. The IAC has recognised the value of the cheese industry and the unfair competition by recommending a more than doubling of the import protection from the current $90 and $96 a tonne to $200 a tonne. It also recommended that New Zealand cheese be included in that protection. This will present some problems with the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement. But I believe the Government has to grasp that situation because imports from New Zealand are increasing rapidly and causing much of the problem. When one looks at the amount of agricultural products that New Zealand allows us to sell it, one sees that the list is far smaller than our imports from that country. 
In addition, for the dairy industry this is a bountiful season throughout Australia and national production is up by about 10 per cent. There is tremendous pressure on the butter industry at present because the quota of 96,000 tonnes to receive underwriting support will probably be surpassed by a total production of about 110,000 to 115,000 tonnes. I hope the Government administers the special quotas flexibly to lift the quota from 96,000 tonnes to about 100,000 tonnes. Dairy industry organisations have a great responsibility this year to decide that if they do not like the present stage 2 arrangements they will have to put forward a viable alternative. One should always remember that the Australian Dairy Farmers Federation recommended the current scheme. There is also the stupidity of some State governments in either lifting the freeze on dairy licences or recommending that they be lifted because of the brief boom in the industry at the moment. The pressure on the industry will continue for years ahead. The licences are completely unnecessary and new entrants will be ill-prepared for possibly a tougher period ahead. There are other important matters concerning agriculture, including wool marketing, the question of increasing vegetable imports and the problem of increased fuel costs for country people. This year will be very significant for agriculture and agricultural decision making by government and primary industry organisations in this country. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to statements that New Zealand has persuaded the Japanese Government to include in a new trade agreement between the two countries words to the effect that New Zealand is the most important and most reliable supplier of dairy products. 
If so, (a) what protests have been made to the Japanese Government, and (b) what has been done to correct the inaccuracy of this assertion. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 7 March 1 978: were circulated: 
1) Is Australia one of only S OECD countries which are not members of the International Energy Association; if so, why is Australia not a member. 
What are the Association's aims and objectives. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 10 May 1978: 
1 ) What advisory or consultative committees has he established or continued which include members of parliament. 
Which members and senators are included on these committees. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
What was the Australian production of almonds for each of the last 5 financial years. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
How many farmers in each State and category of agriculture have been in receipt of unemployment benefits during each week of the last 12 months. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. In view of the Prime Minister's statement that the Government will take action to protect people suffering from chronic illness, and the Minister's own intervention in respect of the Hospitals Contribution Fund of Australia to prevent it from off-loading long term contributors with chronic illnesses to other funds, what action will the Government take to prevent any fund from pursuing such an unethical course of action? 
I am rather puzzled by the whole wording of this matter of public importance raised by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  who is the shadow Minister for Health. To me, he has put himself into a nonsense position. The matter of public importance states: 
The failure of the Government to adequately and equitably provide for the health insurance needs of the community. 
I ask honourable members to remember the words '. . . health insurance needs of the community'. The whole argument of the honourable member for Prospect today was based on the point that the Hospitals Contribution Fund of Australia and possibly other funds are not, in his view, playing the game.  His  whole line of argument time after time since this new scheme was proposed has been that there is no need for any health insurance with the new scheme. What a nonsense situation he has got himself into. On the one hand he is saying that under this scheme- because it is simple and obviously equitable- there is no need for insurance whatsoever. I have quite a number of his speeches scattered around here and a couple of Press releases that he has put out. One heading states: Don't . . . that's Labor's medi cover advice'. 
In a speech, the honourable member for Prospect stated: 
All Australians, both current levy payers and private fund contributors, must think very carefully before committing themselves to health insurance. 
He has been saying consistently: 'There is no need for insurance'. In other words, insurance is beside the point as far as he is concerned in this health scheme. Yet the honourable member for Prospect today, after putting up the argument that there is no need for health insurance at all, now says that the health insurance arrangements are not equitable. What a contradiction. What a nonsense situation he has got himself into. I think he is just making a mockery of what should be a serious debate on this subject. If he would like to reconsider his position, as he was forced to during the most recent health debate that we had in this place- the Labor Party amendment would have provided an open season or an open Sesame situation for doctors to increase their incomes at the expense of the community- perhaps we could adjourn this House to let him think more about the position he has got himself into. The Party he represents as the shadow spokesman should also re-think this matter. 
When the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  spoke I think he was closer to the point of what perhaps we should be debating. We should not be debating health insurance by itself but the health care needs of the people of this country in a total concept. Health insurance is only a part of that. We should be asking whether the needs of the Australian people are being met by this Government's new scheme. When the honourable member for Prospect was developing his nonsensical position, he concentrated on the HCF issue. He referred to the fact that the HCF was trying to introduce restrictions for maximum medical cover for chronically ill patients which would be reduced after a certain time. He referred to the fact that 4,000 letters- or however many there were- were sent out to try to exclude chronically ill patients from medical cover. The letter suggested that these patients should go elsewhere for their insurance. Accepting that line of argument for the time being, one could say, as the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  has stated, that the problem developed because of the desire of the Department the Minister represents, the Minister himself and the Government generally to give approval as early as possible to the health funds for their rates schedules- I emphasise this point- so that they could go out and present the tables to the public generally because of the 1 November deadline. 
The Minister has stated here today and previously that those rates were approved the day before the guidelines of the schedules of the funds actually arrived. The Minister acted in good faith, not only on behalf of that fund but also of funds generally. The fact that a fund itself was not prepared to act in good faith in return to me does not besmirch the Minister or the Government one iota. It certainly does besmirch the reputation of that particular fund. Because of that, I believe we now have reached the necessary but disappointing situation where one fund has created a bad image for all the funds of Australia and has forced the Government to enforce a series of rules to ensure that the funds play the game. The criticism of the honourable member for Prospect would have been accurate if the Minister and the Government had not acted promptly to redress the situation. The Minister and the Government acted promptly to redress the situation by enforcing new requirements. It has threatened to legislate so that the requirements will be backdated, to my understanding, to 1 November to the start of the new arrangements. Because we do not have copies of  Hansard  from yesterday available today, I cannot read what the Minister said yesterday in announcing the Government's decision so I must quote from today's Melbourne  Age  in which it is stated: 
Federal Cabinet yesterday decided to force health funds to pay full benefits to chronically ill contributors. 
The Health Minister,  Mr Hunt,  announced yesterday that the Government would take any necessary action to prevent the funds applying rules in their medical tables which exclude benefits to the chronically ill or aged. 
The moves are designed to prevent New South Wales largest health insurer, the Hospitals Contribution Fund, from proceeding with plans to pay only 75 per cent of the medical bills of chronically ill contributors. 

 Mr Hunt said he was expecting a report from his legal advisers to see if the funds would be controlled by 'determination, regulation or legislation '. 
He predicted that legislation may be necessary and that, as a result of the move, funds may have to increase their contribution rates. 
The Minister acted quickly and responsibly to cover a situation which has been caused only because one fund did not abide by the rules. 
Because of this situation all funds- if one takes on board what the honourable member for Prospect is now gabbling about- will now be forced to play the rules. If I were the honourable member for Prospect I would be considering my position in relation to the advice about whether people should or should not insure. He came out with a whole new argument about the inequities of insurance when, in the first place, he had said that insurance was not necessary. The honourable member for Prospect should consider his own absurd position before he starts pointing his finger at anybody else. Members of the Opposition particularly the honourable member for Prospect- have developed some other arguments about the so-called avaricious health funds, such as that they are hoodwinking the public and the Government. The health funds were around when Labor was in government. 
Let us compare the pressure that was applied to the health funds when the Australian Labor Party was in government with the pressure that we have applied in two and a half years in Government. In my 7  lA  years in Parliament no Minister for Health has forced the health funds to reduce their reserves to the extent that the present Minister for Health has. Also, no other Minister for Health has encouraged more competition. So in this respect the present Government once again is doing more than Labor did in the three years that it had the opportunity to do so. If one wants to look at the whole question of avariciousness, corruption, inefficiency and accelerating expenditure in health care costs one should not look just at the funds. When Labor was in government with a scheme that was supposed to be so equitable to everyone problems arose with pathologists. It was a little like  Animal Farm.  All pigs are created equal but some are more equal than others. Who were more equal than others under Labor's scheme? It was the pathologists, general practitioners and specialists. What a rip-off they had. Let us have a look at some of the increased costs. They changed their attitudes to the health delivery system. From it being a reputable system their attitude was: What can we get out of it. In one year, medical care costs jumped by nearly 32 per cent. To the credit of the present Minister for Health and the Government that cost has been brought back to about 7 per cent. 
Let us look at the hospital development program with which Labor was involved. Labor proposed to spend $700,000,000 to create more beds with an inevitable increase in total health costs in Australia. Now people are saying that we already have too many hospital beds. Yet Labor intended to add to this burgeoning expenditure on health care costs in Australia. For example, in 1973-74, $3,000m was expended on national health. In Labor's last year in government the expenditure was $5,224m. We have to remember that at that time the Australian health care system was heading for breakdown. Taxes or insurance premiums would have had to increase. When we look at these things and at what Labor was up to when it was in power we can say, on three grounds, that it has more cause to answer than we have. There was the increase in total cost to all Australians- patients are Australianinefficiencies, burgeoning expenditure and avariciousness in certain sectors of the health care field during the time of the Labor Government. So I believe that we have every right to reject the terminology of the motion as put forward by the honourable member for Prospect. He has put himself in a nonsense situation. All the other arguments advanced have been put in the development of that nonsensical argument. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 26 September 1978: 
1 ) With reference to section 4. 1 of the recently released Principles Governing the Determination of Quotas Under the Dairy Industry Stabilization Act 1977', what is specially formulated butter. 
Does it include soft spread and butter/ vegetable oil mixtures. 
With reference to section 6.2, is it likely to become evident in November or later that shortfalls have occurred. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
1 ) Is every dairy factory being encouraged to produce soft spread butter and/or dairy soft butter/vegetable oil mixtures. 
If not, is the Australian Dairy Corporation controlling the production of these special butters and only licensing certain manufacturers. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 27 September 1 978: 
With reference to section 4.1 of 'Principles Governing the Determination of Quotas Under the Dairy Industry Stabilization Act 1977', does part (a) mean that the total production of specially formulated butter will receive stabilisation payments; if so, will this be on a total weight basis or on the weight of the butterfat actually in the product. 
Does part (b) of the Principles refer to a factory exceeding its quota of specially formulated butter or of normal butter, or does it mean that special butter produced by a factory additional to its quota for normal butter will be included in that factory's normal quota and that production will not be eligible for stabilisation payments. 
3 ) If the latter proposition referred to in part (2 ) correctly sets out the position what advantage is there for a factory to produce special butter, and why bother to include section 4 in the Principles, if it offers no variation from the standard arrangement. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
1 ) What evidence is there that the entry of ANL into overseas shipping services has actually reduced or moderated freight costs to Australian exporters. 
Has ANL just become part of the Conference and joined forces with the overseas shipping companies; if so, what is his response to this move. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
1 ) Since the inception of the Rural Reconstruction Scheme, now the Rural Adjustment Scheme, how much (a) grant and (b) loan money has been provided by the Commonwealth Government to each State annually. 
What sums has each State made available under the Scheme from (a) Commonwealth contributions and (b) its own resources annually in each sector of the Scheme. 
How many farmers, and in which types of agriculture, in each State, receive assistance under the Scheme annually. 
How much of the Commonwealth contribution has remained unspent by each State Government at the end of each financial year. 
Is there any net cost to State Governments with the Scheme after allowing for any direct contributions, and administrative repayment arrangements, etc. 
Is it possible for a State Government to profit by the Scheme? 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
How many farmers in each State and each category of agriculture have been in receipt of household support during each week since the inception of the Scheme. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 26 September 1978: 
1 ) Is it the intention of the Australian Bureau of Statistics to reduce the collection or publication of statistics relating to agriculture. 
If so, which statistics presently collected will cease to be collected. 
What is the current list of statistics collected by the Bureau which relate to (a) agricultural production, (b) trade and (c) food and fibre processing. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 26 October 1978: 
Which backbench members of Parliament have attended South Pacific Conferences since arrangements were introduced to allow a certain number to attend, or since records have been kept. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 26 October 1978: 
1 ) How many medical graduates have been produced by each medical school in Australia during each of the last5 years for which figures are available. 
How many undergraduates have been accepted, or are estimated to be accepted next year by new medical schools, which have not yet produced any graduates. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 21 September 1978: 
1 ) What was the total number of Telecom employees and the weekly wages bill when that corporation was first established. 
What are the corresponding figures for the most recent week for which records are available. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
What was the tonnage and value of the imports of almonds, in their various categories including packaged almonds, during each of the last 5 financial years. 
From which countries were they imported. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
1 ) What is the present situation with the proposals put to the four governments concerned to amend the River Murray Waters Agreement to extend the power of the River Murray Commission to include water quality. 
Is approval of the four governments necessary before legislation is prepared. If so, which governments still have to signify their approval. 
If this approval is not necessary when will the legislation be ready to submit to the respective governments. 
-The Minister for Primary Industry will be aware of criticism to the effect that the Commonwealth Government has taken a long time to consider a request from the Victorian Government to administer that Goverment 's promise of establishing a minimum price of 80c per lb of fat in milk for prescribed dairy products for Victorian dairy farmers for the current season. What is the situation? 
-The National Health Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1978 has the quite specific purpose of closing loopholes discovered by a certain health fund, particularly in relation to new optional deduction medical benefit tables which, of course, were a part of or one of the innovations of National Health Amendment Bill (No. 2) which commenced operation on 1 November. To a lesser extent the purpose of the Bill is to deal with an earlier problem which arose in relation to hospital and /or nursing home bed declaration. These amendments are really about the problem of chronic illness or, as I am advised by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  chronicity. I do not think I will use that word again. I will refer to chronic illness. The Minister assures me that the word appears in Webster's dictionary and in the Oxford dictionary and that it is quite correct. Apparently it means the problem of illness basically of old people. 
Of course, the percentage of such people is increasing in our community and therefore it presents an increasing problem in relation to health care. One can question whether changes to our health insurance policies will be required in the future to overcome the problem of insurance arrangements and health care arrangements for those people who are suffering from chronic illness. How appropriate is the insurance principle for the care of people with a chronic illness? On the one hand, we have the problem of maintaining equity for old people and the ability for them to obtain health care, whether it be hospital or medical, without discrimination. Yet, on the other hand, we have to allow flexibility for the health funds in their insurance arrangements. 
This problem of chronic illness and the insurance principle is not just confined to the medical section. That is so because of the increased usage of medical services- visits to general practitioners and so on- by old people. It is concerned also with the question of acute hospital beds and /or geriatric ward beds in hospitals and nursing homes. I understand that in the near future a decision will be reached and announcements will be made by Federal and State authorities on the question of the closing down of wards in larger hospitals, perhaps reclassifying some of the present acute wards as geriatric or nursing home wards, and the reclassifying of patients in smaller hospitals- country areasfrom acute patients to nursing home patients. 
There is also the problem of the capacity, or perhaps the over-capacity, of hospital beds generally. Already this year the Australian Hospitals Association has stated that it believes that there should be a reduction in the number of acute hospital beds in Australia. I think I am right in saying that the Australian Medical Association supports that particular viewpoint. I know that the Minister has stated this particular point of view.  Mr Minister  I am referring to this problem of the over-capacity of hospital beds generally in Australia which is an additional argument to the question of whether some of the wards should be reclassified as geriatric wards or nursing home wards or whether perhaps there should be a reclassification of certain patients. I understand that measures are under way which will do something about this situation in the public hospital sector. 
We have the problem of private hospitals not being subject, as I understand it, to ministerial direction and, of course, government funding. Recently, the Hospitals Corporation of America stated that it would invest millions of dollars in the creation of new private hospital beds in Australia- several hundred, in fact. It has made this announcement at a time when we are saying that there are already too many hospital beds in this country and that in the public sector certain restrictions and disciplines are required. According to the Press statements made by this Corporation its sole purpose in providing those hospital beds is to make a profit of the order of 17 per cent to 20 per cent. I am not against profit making, but one can ask in the context of hospital care in this country: At whose expense is profit gained? I suggest very strongly that it is basically at the expense of the Government and the taxpayer. I hope that the Minister is able, either under his own powers or in discussion with the States, to do something about what we will call an overall rationalisation of hospital beds in this country, whether they be acute or chronic.  His  efforts should not just be restricted to the public sector. We should not allow, as I believe has happened in the United States of America, a restriction on the one hand of the public sector and at the same time a proliferation of beds in the private sector. 
This Bill restricts the ability of a fund to defeat the spirit of the new health scheme. I believe that the Minister has introduced these amendments with some sadness because they are contrary to his philosophy and the Government's philosophy espoused in the 1 November changes, namely, to provide more flexibility and freedom for the health funds to go about their business. We see that the purpose of this Bill is to impose more specific regulations, because one fund out of approximately 80 in Australia has tried to flout the spirit of the health insurance system. So these amendments are necessary to protect the insured person. 
I congratulate the Minister, firstly, on the speed of his response to the problem. As the scheme commenced only on 1 November and as we are still in the month of November, that is not a bad achievement in the bureaucratic world that reigns here in Canberra. One can argue that it was probably also necessary for speed because this is now the second last day of the sittings of the Parliament. Nevertheless, I think the Minister is to be commended for his ability to introduce the legislation now rather than to make announcements and at a later date to introduce legislation backdating everything from the autumn session. I commend the Minister secondly on the degree of explanation that is provided in his second reading speech. I believe that it is one of the best second reading speeches I have read in that it details quite clearly, step by step, the points raised in the amendments. 
The third area of commendation is the way in which the Minister has allowed, even though he could have retained power over interpretation and declaration in these amendments, for parliamentary scrutiny and parliamentary disallowance. He does that on two occasions in the amendments, and in another part of the legislation he allows appeals to be made to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal in relation to any declaration or decision he may make. That is something that cannot be said of all legislation and all Ministers in this place, that they are willingly allowing a greater role for the scrutiny by this Parliament of their actions. The second reading speech which details or explains the amendments contained in this BUI makes four points: Firstly, protection from improper discrimination by a fund to cover chronic illness, age, limitation on frequency of services, etc; secondly, to protect subscribers in both the pre- and post- 1 November situation from rule changes made by medical benefit organisations; thirdly, protection from reduction below the 75 per cent level by any fund; fourthly, protection from arbitrary reclassification of the patient from a hospital to a nursing home situation. Then, of course, follow the disallowance provisions. 
I would support the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  in one of the comments that he made towards the end of his speech, that is, that there is a great need to consolidate the National Health Act. With so many amendments and loose sheets of paper, as he said, it is an impossibility for an ordinary person, such as a backbencher, to follow it through quickly and clearly. He also made the point that it may be of advantage to provide in different volumes the medical section and the pharmaceutical benefits section. That point would also be worthy of consideration. I commend the Minister and support the BUI. 

 Mr Les McMAHON (Sydney) (5.26)-I agree with my colleague the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  who said that the Opposition does not oppose the National Health Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1978 which will amend the National Health Act 1953. But Opposition members disagree with the way in which the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  has carried out his job in putting this Bill together. The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  congratulated the Minister but we in the Opposition criticise the Minister for the way in which he has carried out his job in having to amend the National Health Act. The people of Australia, particularly the people of New South Wales, wonder how long it will be before another amendment is introduced? The Opposition welcomes the Government's moves to remove some of the discriminatory practices which exist in the area of health insurance. Of course, these practices would not have been developed if the Government had honoured its election promise to maintain Medibank as it was introduced by the Labor Government. 
The Government dismantled Medibank, supposedly in the interests of reducing the total amount that was being spent by Australians on health care. It was of the opinion that because Australians were entitled to health care as of right, and not as of means, they were seeing their doctors far too often. It determined that a disincentive was needed to discourage this alleged over-use of medical services. The disincentive was to shift the burden of payment more towards the patient and away from the insurance fund, whether it be public or private, so that the patient would pay more and accordingly would buy less. Naturally the process did not work for two fundamental reasons which forever seem to be beyond the grasp of this Government. Firstly, the alleged over-use of medical services arising from the introduction of Medibank is a myth. The Government is unable to produce any statistics to show that this is true. Of course the number of persons who were obtaining health services under Medibank had increased, but this was the reason for the introduction of Medibank- to bring basic health care within the reach of every Australian. Secondly, the only effect of the Government's strategy is to force more people out of the health insurance system. As benefits have dropped, more people are opting out of taking health insurance because it is more economical for them to bear their own health costs. 
Let me provide an example. In New South Wales the present schedule fee for a general practitioner consultation is $8.90. After 8 p.m. or on weekends it goes up to $24. The premium for basic medical cover is about $1.60 a week for a single person. For that person to break even with his insurance costs he would need to visit a general practitioner 26 times a year. It would be very unusual for a healthy young person to visit a doctor more than six times per annum. Thus, by not taking health insurance, that person would save $64.48 a year. The result of the Government's strategy is to force the healthy people out of the insurance system and leave only those people who expect very high health bills, that is, the aged and the chronically ill. The result will be that insurance premiums for these people will rise. This is discrimination which the present Bill will not remove. 
The Government, if it wishes to reduce the total health bill, will do better to identify and inquire into the three main areas of health costs, that is, hospital and medical charges and administration costs. The 1977 report of the Health Insurance Commission indicated that the area of administration costs is quite vulnerable. The report disclosed that administration  costs  of Medibank Standard were only 4.2 per cent of benefits paid, whereas those of Medibank Private were 15.7 per cent, a figure that is comparable with the other private funds. The substantial difference can be attributed to a number of factors, two important ones being bulk billing and the greater volume of claims that were handled. The figures indicate that substantial economies can be obtained by channelling claims through one administrative force and by eliminating the middle man. The Minister might take note that these two aspects- the high cost of administration and the falling numbers of insured personswill combine to cause the demise of some private insurance funds within 12 months. 
Other aspects of discrimination have arisen out of the present scheme. For example, the Hospitals Contribution Fund of Australia offers a type of insurance that is called 'budget cover'. To obtain this cover one must be a fit and healthy person because no pre-existing or chronic conditions are covered. If one becomes ill and requires more than 12 consultations a year, the level of the cover drops down automatically. This type of insurance effectively requires those persons who are in need of health insurance to pay more for the same benefits. For those people who were covered originally, when they are in dire need of assistance the level of aid drops. Surely this is discrimination. But we cannot solely blame the funds for introducing this sort of cover because it merely reflects the rationale that was introduced and encouraged by the Government- the principle of optional deductibles. Its purpose is to discriminate between those people who are ill and those people who are healthy. It is a wholly inappropriate concept. 
Health insurance is not comparable with motor vehicle insurance. There is a very large element of personal control and individual responsibility in operating a motor vehicle. That is not so with one's health. Good health is fortuitous and those people who are unlucky enough to become ill should be assisted by the remainder of the people. This could be classed as socialism a Christian way of life or helping one's fellow countrymen. The Liberal Party of Australia and the National Country Party have rejected their supporters on this issue. Discrimination is also possible because doctors have the capacity to bulk bill but they are not required to do so. Take the glaring example of the new concept of socially disadvantaged persons. These questions have all been asked before: Who determines who are socially disadvantaged persons? What criteria are used to determine whether persons are sufficiently socially disadvantaged? Leaving such a decision in the hands of doctors, with no possibility of adequate review, is opening a Pandora 's Box of discriminatory possibilities on the basis of race, creed, colour, age and sex. A further discriminatory aspect of bulk billing arises in relation to pensioners holding pensioner health benefit cards. As I said before, doctors have the capacity to bulk bill but they are not required to do so. In fact one of their unions, the Australian Medical Association, in its 1978 policy statement, emphatically advises against it. Paragraph 106 of the statement states: 
The Australian Medical Association is opposed to direct billing of health insurance organisations and advises members not to accept assignment of benefits. 
Thus some doctors at least W111 not bulk bill. Some pensioners will therefore have to pay thendoctors and then recover their insurance benefits from a fund. A doctor's bill of $8.90 out of a pension of $53.20 a week is a hefty sum to have to fork out. It is worse still if a pensioner is referred to a specialist who does not bulk bill. About half of a week's pension may disappear in the payment of a specialist 's fee. It is said that doctors on the whole are compassionate towards pensioners and that the same union, the Australian Medical Association, recommends that doctors subsidise pensioners. But they are not required to do so. Pensioners on substantially equal bases will be treated differently to the unnecessary detriment of some of them. There is a chilling rider to the AMA's recommendation to subsidise pensioners in the statement referred to earlier. It states: 
This attitude could change if the number of Health Benefit Card holders was increased without consultation. 
The union is obviously concerned that too many patients will become subsidised and, therefore, cause a drop in doctors' incomes. That does not augur well for the broad definition of the socially disadvantaged. After all, doctors receive only 75 per cent, not 85 per cent, if they classify a patient as socially disadvantaged. They forgo their right to recover the remaining 25 per cent. There is nothing to prevent them recovering the remaining 15 per cent when pensioners are charged. 
These inequities ought to be removed forthwith. Doctors should be required to bulk bill all pensioners holding PHB cards so that equitable conditions apply to all such persons. In addition, the 85 per cent should be all that can be recovered. Pensioners should not be required to contribute to health costs. Again, the HCF- I am not really picking on that fund; it is just that it is so vulnerable to criticism- has a policy of requiring contributions six months in advance for its Plan 61, hospital-only insurance. For pensioners holding PHB cards such a requirement is disgraceful. To have their choice of doctor in hospital single people are required to pay out in a lump sum $52.02, or a week's pension and married pensioners are required to pay twice that amount to obtain family cover. A married pensioner has to pay $ 100 six months in advance. 
I refer the Minister for Health who is at the table to a statement that I made in the  Sunday Telegraph  of 29 October 1978. Constituents of mine at Petersham,  Mr Clem  Cowell and his wife, Gwen, made inquiries of me. They had to pay health insurance contributions to HCF six months in advance. They had contributed to the fund for over 50 years. Under the new rules from 1 November they have pulled out of the HCF after contributing in advance for 50 years. I am pleased to say that they have joined Medibank. I had to send a telegram to the Minister for Health about the matter. On 7 November he replied to me. He said: 
Dear  Mr McMahon, 
Thank you for your telegram of 30 October 1978 which brought to my attention the fact that the HCF are apparently requiring some contributors to pay contributions for a minimum period of six months in advance. 
The HCF have submitted for approval the following new rule- 2.1.4. Weekly contributions are available only for group contributors. Monthly and quarterly contributions are not available to non-group contributors if the weekly contribution rates payable for the combinations of tables insured by the contributor are less than $5.00 at the family rate or $2.50 at the single rate '. 
The explanation forwarded with the proposed rule was that it 'ensures that the rninimum cash payment under any HCF plan is reasonable in relation to the commission rates payable and the cost of processing the receipt. ' 
Consideration will be given to rule 2.1.4. at the same time as the other proposed HCF rule changes are considered. The effect that the rule would have on persons with restricted means will of course be taken into account. 
Kind regards, (Ralph J. Hunt) 
I hope that the Minister for Health will take note of my comments and try to help those people. Pensioners have to pay six months in advance. Many of them have to be bulk billed. Because they are old fashioned in their attitudes, they are insuring themselves. As I said earlier, young people are opting out. Pensioners are losing on the deal. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 14 November 1978: 
1 ) What progress is being made with the inquiry into the alleged dumping of cheese which was initiated in October 1976. 
When is it anticipated that the inquiry will be completed and a decision announced. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 7 March 1 978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the range of energy conservation policies and incentives introduced in the last New Zealand budget 
If so, are any of these policies being considered for implementation either by the Commonwealth or by the States in co-operation with the Commonwealth. 
Has any consideration been given to the introduction of taxation concessions or grants or an Australia-wide building regulation to encourage the greater use of thermal insulation material in homes, thus reducing the need for internal heating. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 26 October 1978: 
With reference to bis answer to question No. 1910  (Hansard,  19 October 1978, page 2165), has his attention been drawn to a statement by the Right Honourable R. Muldoon, Prime Minister of New Zealand, that Japan has agreed to 12 points which will give New Zealand beef, dairy products, fish and sawn timber special access to Japan. 
If so, is he able to say what these 12 points are and what effect they will have on Australian trade with Japan. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 14 November 1978: 
Is the Government considering an option scheme, such as that existing in the United States of America and New Zealand, and proposed for the United Kingdom and Canada, whereby small businesses can elect to be taxed as a partnership. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 14 November 1978: 
Is the Government considering measures to overcome tax penalties suffered by private companies because of the restriction of the tax-free allowance for retention of profit 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
Is he able to say whether the recently enacted Californian legislation to assist export industries to gain or retain export markets has been invoked to help any agricultural commodities, particularly rice, tomatoes, avocadoes, almonds, canned fruit or fresh fruit 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 26 October 1978: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a possible oversupply of doctors, with the resultant increase in medical and hospital costs. 
If so, what is being done to restrict the undergraduate intake. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 14 November 1978: 
What is the present position with the proposal to change the basis of payment for manufacturing milk. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Has Pringle of Scotland purchased all available 'finest Australian merino lambs wool held in stockpile by the Australian Wool Corporation for the production of lamaine 
Does this company have an arrangement to purchase all available supplies from the Corporation during 1 978. 
3 ) Is it a fact that the price gap between cashmere and the best lambs' wool has widened due to the scarcity of cashmere. If so, has the Corporation obtained the best price for this type of lambs ' wool 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 14 November 1978: 
1 ) What progress has been made with the uniform application of the Code of Practice for Dairy Factories in Australia. 
In which States is the Code most advanced. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 2 1 November 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the refusal by New South Wales Authorities to accept Victorian nurse registration and the considerable problems this is creating along the border between the States. 
If so, what is being done to establish Australia-wide uniform standards for nurse training and registration, or at least acceptance by each State of other States ' certification. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
1 ) Is there any uncompleted report or other impediment which would prevent the Commonwealth from making further grants for salinity control measures under the National Water Resources Program to any State which submits a proposal. 
) If so, when will these impediments be overcome. 
If not, have any of the Murray River States an outstanding application at the present time. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 14 November 1978: 
What is the present position regarding the introduction of plant breeders' rights. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
Has there been an agricultural attache recently stationed with the Australian Embassy in Peking; if not, when will one be stationed there. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 17 November 1978: 
What is the present situation with the proposal to introduce a national herd improvement scheme. 
! asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 27 September 1 978: 
1 ) What is the role of an agricultural attache and in what way does it differ from a Trade Commissioner in matters relating to agriculture or agricultural exports. 
Where are agricultural attaches presently located and which additional locations are presently being considered. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
Has the EEC suspended export subsidies or restitutions on butter sales pending an inquiry into an attempted sale of French butter to the Soviet Union contrary to the notification procedure introduced after a similar sale in 1 977. 
What is the current situation with EEC export subsidies for dairy products. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 27 September, 1978: 
1 ) What is the role of a Trade Commissioner and in what way does it differ from an agricultural attache in matters relating to agriculture or agricultural exports. 
Where are Trade Commissioners presently located and which additional locations are being considered. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 21 November 1978: 
Which schools in Victoria have received grants from the Commonwealth Government's Disadvantaged Schools Program and Country Education Project. 
What were the sums received and in what years were payments made. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 14 September 1 978: 
Will the Torrens Island quarantine station accept cattle imported from New Zealand which were born in countries other than the United Kingdom and Ireland. If so, from which countries of binh will they be permitted. 
What guarantees are there that diseases will not be introduced. 
If cattle born in countries other than the United Kingdom and Ireland will not be allowed, why bother to accept United Kingdom and Irish cattle via New Zealand, when the station will accept them direct from these countries. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
Is it a fact that many private mail contractors have been denied any increase in rates for the last 2 years. 
If so, what is the reason for this discrimination against a certain sector of the mail delivery service. 
If not, what increase has been granted to each of the contractor categories. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 26 October 1978: 
1) Is it a matter of concern that Australia could have an oversupply of doctors. 
If so, (a) what is he doing to investigate the situation and (b) what information is there available supporting the contention. 
What is the likely effect on national health costs if there is an oversupply of donors. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 14 November 1978: 
What is being done to overcome the lack of uniformity in health requirements and standards for the production of cheese in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 2 1 November 1978: 
What are the current Federal/State cost sharing arrangements with each of the States for hospital outpatients for medical, pharmaceutical and other services. 
What information does he have from the States or direct from hospitals on the actual cost per patient for outpatient medical consultations. 
Does the Government agree that the cost is approximately $19 per consultation; if not what is the basis for this disagreement. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
Are Trade Commissioners presently stationed in the People's Republic of China; if so, 
where are they, and 
are there any plans to either establish or increase this service in that country. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
Further to his answer to question No. 2349  (Hansard,  8 November 1978, page 2575) and the consideration of specially formulated butter additional to the ordinary butter quota being included in the underwriting system, will he accede to the request of the Australian Dairy Corporation for 6,000 tonnes of this type of butter to be included in the quota. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 24 November 1 978: 
1 ) Who or what is the Commercial Bureau of Australia which was recently reported in the press as being one of the two companies which have successfully negotiated a sale of butter to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. 
Who are the principals of the company and what is their previous expertise in marketing bulk commodities and selling them to centrally planned economies. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to the recent rinding of the Busselton study which indicates that high cholesterol diets are not as significant, as presently promoted by health authorities, for the incidence of heart disease, and that other factors such as genes are more significant than previously recognised; if so, what is being done to evaluate and incorporate this new evidence in information on this disease. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) What is the arrangement with each of the States under the hospitals agreements for the provision of prostheses for private patients in public hospitals. 
Are prostheses provided for similar patients in private hospitals; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
When will the Minister be able to announce an increase in the allowance for members of Parliament who are required to drive their own car to the nearest airport when travelling to Parliament. 
When was the allowance last increased, and by how much and what percentage has the cost of petrol and depreciation of a car, as determined by his Department, increased since then. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
What is the current situation with the provision and maintenance of adequate incinerator facilities at Australian ports. 
How significant is the new proposal to macerate and sterilise waste as an alternative to incineration. 
How is the material treated by this method finally disposed of if it is not incinerated. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
When will the long awaited pamphlet explaining the reasons for Australian quarantine procedure be available for distribution to all incoming travellers. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 2 1 November 1 978: 
1 ) Are disposal stores able to obtain and sell new army clothing and stores; if so, should this be regarded as an indication of waste and inefficiency in defence forces purchases. 
If it is not an indication of inefficiency, why does it happen. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 14 November 1978: 
What is being done to overcome the present lack of uniformity in health requirements between imports and exports of cheese. 
When will bleaching agents, sodium, potassium nitrates and nitrites be prohibited from imported cheese as they presently are from local cheese. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 14 November 1978: 
How many private mail contractors have contracts with Australia Post, and what are their contract periods. 
What is the position of the request by the Australian Mail Contractors Association for S year contracts with an option for a further 5 years under certain circumstances. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 1 7 November 1 978: 
In view of the concern being expressed on the health hazards caused by exposure to certain forms of asbestos and the assistance being provided by the Commonwealth to the Woodsreef mine, is that company adhering to the necessary safety standards ibr asbestos mining. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 17 November 1978: 
Further to his answer to question No. 1895  (Hansard,  9 November 1978, page 2709) what is the difference between the inner and outer telephone charging zones in each of the capital cities. 
Are there different regulations and charges for local and trunk calls for each of the zones; if so, what are they. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
What was the reason for the Victorian Government's request for the Australian Dairy Corporation to administer that Government's 80 cents per pound underwriting promise being declared unconstitutional when the Corporation was able to do so the previous season. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
Further to his answer to Question No. 2770 concerning the dumping of cheese, have his officials taken into account the EEC export subsidy or restitution of $1,000 per tonne for gouda cheese. 
I direct a question to the Treasurer. Is the long standing arrangement whereby the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank of Australia provides finance to cover the first advance to wheat growers now being altered? Is part of the total amount now being required from commercial sources at higher interest rates or is the 12-month repayment period being reduced? If so, who is responsible for this major alteration to the existing procedure? Is the Minister aware that this alteration is contrary to the extended special credit arrangements now available to our major wheat exporting competitors? 
-As other speakers in this debate have said already, this amending legislation will remove any doubt about the power of the Australian Dairy Corporation to promote milk and fresh milk products as well as the more traditional dairy products such as cheese on the domestic market. A new definition of 'dairy produce' is required to include milk and or its constituent parts as well as products derived from milk. I just hope that the amending legislation is sufficient to cover the situation. In the 1960s and more particularly in the 1970s the role of national commodity marketing boards changed increasingly from bulk exporters to marketers of a particular commodity in the domestic market. The loss of traditional export markets such as the European Economic community for dairy produce and fruit is a good reason for this change, together with a larger, more affluent and more discerning Australian population. This has brought about a reassessment of strategy for the marketing of these commodities. The emphasis is now very much on domestic promotion, but I believe more emphasis will still be required in future than is given now. 
The various boards and corporations are still acquiring the necessary skills and evaluating techniques, and of course the finance necessary to cope adequately with the new task. In the 1977-78 annual report of the Austraiian Dairy Corporation details are given of the criteria to be used in the promotion of dairy products by the Corporation. As I read the report, they include support for and supplement to existing promotional arrangements by others in the industry, to encourage new products and end uses for dairy products and to promote those products where at the present time this not being done. The Corporation now believes that it can produce a response to the promotion of any dairy product it desires to promote and that its evaluation techniques are sufficiently developed to place a cost benefit value on any such promotion. As these skills have been developed its marketing techniques have become more aggressive. The Corporation hopes to average two butter, two cheese, one fresh milk product, or, if you like, cream, and one market milk promotion each year within the existing criteria which in particular in the marketing of milk is to assist the State milk marketing authorities as required. In addition, there are the general promotions such as Easy Summer Living', 'Winter Snacks', et cetera. 
Butter consumption has fallen dramatically in Australia. Butter, which was the basis of the dairy industry in Australia both in exports and in domestic consumption is no longer the basis of the industry and this, together with the loss of the EEC market, is the major reason for the dramatic reassessment that has been required in the dairy industry for its future marketing strategy. Butter consumption has been falling by between 15 per cent and 17 per cent a year. It is down to 50,000 tonnes or 55,000 tonnes this year but the rate of decline, I am advised, has slowed to under 10 per cent this year. 
There are two points of interest, both of which I believe were mentioned by previous speakers. The first is Dairy Soft. This is the 80 per cent: 20 per cent mixture of dairy fat and vegetable fat. It is being test marketed in Adelaide for six months. It is still being evaluated but it is believed that it could have gained six per cent to eight per cent of the spread market in Adelaide. The question still to be answered is: At whose expense has the six per cent to eight per cent been gained- butter or margarine? Better packs, such as tubs and foil which have replaced the old parchment packs for the sale of table butter, have at last come to the fore. At last we now have in Australia a better availability of genuine easy spread butters by using such processes as the Alnarp process. 
This year cheese production is up 20 per cent on last year. In spite of this 20 per cent increase there will be a 4,000 tonne shortfall in cheese sales from Australia to Japan. Although the figures are not available yet for domestic cheese consumption in the current year it is obvious that cheese consumption is continuing to rise at a very healthy rate. It is obvious that cheese promotion is successful, but I think in the future there will be an even better basis for cheese promotion when we overcome this temporary shortfall in cheese. In the electorate of Murray, which is the one I am proud to represent in this place and which has more dairy cows than any other electorate in Australia, which sometimes worries the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  there has been a dramatic transformation in cheese production. The electorate of Murray will now produce close to half of Australia's cheese production. Cheese production in this electorate will again increase next year following the complete transfer of the Rochester factory of Murray Goulburn Co-operative Company Ltd from the production of butter, skim milk, et cetera, to cheese production. This will be additional to the other cheese factories including the Murray Goulburn cheese factory at Cobram, the two Kraft Foods Ltd factories at Leitchville and Strathmerton, the Ibis Milk Products Ltd factory at Stanhope and the Nestle factory at Girgarre. These factories are all producing increasing quantities of cheese. 
I think the Japanese have given their affirmation to the point made by the honourable member for Darling Downs because I believe Australia has a better quality rating with the Japanese, the most quality conscious importers of Australian cheese, than New Zealand and other competitors. With fresh milk the Victorian Dairy Industry Authority, to its credit, developed the 'Milk It Instead' promotion for white milk and the 'Big M' campaign for flavoured milk, which lifted the level of consumption of flavoured milk in Melbourne from the lowest in any of the capital cities in Australia to probably the highest. The point is that in Melbourne before the advent of that campaign nothing was being done to promote milk. The Australian Dairy Corporation has purchased the Milk It Instead '-that is, the white milkcampaign for three State authorities, which have been carrying that promotion this summer. Other States have developed their own flavoured milk promotional campaigns or in one or two cases, have bought 'Big M' material. 
It appears that the market for flavoured milk will stabilise at about 8 per cent of the total milk market, that is, of human milk consumption or of the market milk market. However, strict quality control is essential for a consumer consistently to prefer carton milk to soft drink or fruit juice. Poor flavouring or stale milk cannot be tolerated if the drive for the consumption of flavoured milk and, for that matter, of white milk is to continue. Fresh milk products appear, with cheese, to have the greatest potential for future promotion. I understand that the 'cream and fruit' promotion this summer was the first national promotion for cream and sales have expanded generally throughout Australia. So far, hardly any promotion has been done for other fresh milk products, such as yoghurts, special desserts, et cetera. 
I am pleased to see that the significance of the school tuckshop has been recognised by the dairy industry. The tuckshop is very important in modifying the dietary habits or dietary choice of young people, as an aid to good nutrition, and dental hygiene. Milk fits all the criteria. I commend the work that has been done in Victoria. The same could be being done in other States- it is just that I know the Victorian situation. Professor Storey, of the School of Dentistry at the University of Melbourne and the Victorian Dairy Industry Authority have worked on school tuckshop seminars, et cetera. 
The honourable member makes a fair point. I think it is a pity that the excellent work that the Victorian Dairy Industry Authority is doing in the promotion of milk products in Victoria is being sullied by it being moved into political debate by certain people in that Authority. The role of statutory corporations is to market their products. Politics should be left to the politicians and the industry organisations. Two recent conferences in which dairying was a significant matter of discussion- the Agricultural Outlook Conference and the Dairy Industry Workshop- confirmed the reviving selfconfidence which is now very much apparent in the dairy industry. These conferences made the points that the dairying industry has a viable future in this country, both on the domestic and export markets; that production has fallen as low as it should be allowed to fall; and that the industry also appears to be prepared to discuss its problems on a more national and rational basis than in the past. 
At the Workshop, the  Chairman  of the Australian Dairy Corporation paid tribute to the value of the Commonwealth Government's underwriting commitment in sustaining the industry and providing a basis for its recovery. The  Chairman  also made the point- I certainly make it anyway- that the Minister for Primary Industry is playing a predominant part in continuing that underwriting commitment. I believe that the Minister deserves the congratulations of all dairy farmers in Australia for what he has done to provide a base from which they can operate. It is the belief of the industry that $1.80 a kilogram, or 82c per lb, is a reasonable request for underwriting to put to the Commonwealth Government for the 1979-80 financial year. At that level of underwriting of 82c per lb, the guesstimate, or forward estimate, at this stage is that only $3.Sm of Commonwealth underwriting funds would be necessary. This can be compared with the estimate at this stage of about $ 1 5m for the far lower underwriting figure of $1.65 a kilogram, or 75c per lb. So, from the figures for this year and the estimates for next year, the way in which the dairy industry is providing its own commercial return on a reasonable basis, through the development of markets and through the necessary readjustment that has taken place, can be seen. I repeat for the benefit of the Minister, who has just returned to the chamber, that the Workshop also considered the need for an 82c per lb underwriting commitment by the Commonwealth Government next year. 
The Workshop also believed that there was no need for selective underwriting to continue into next year because this year's selective underwriting, together with the significantly better financial return for cheese rather than butter, has made the necessary readjustment. Next year, in the Murray electorate alone, because of the previously mentioned switch to cheese production, between 6,000 and 7,000 tonnes less butter will be produced than will be produced this year. I support the recommendation of the Workshop that the Commonwealth Government should provide a significantly increased level of underwriting for next year at the $1.80 a kilogram level, compared with the $1.65 a kilogram level for this year, and that it could do so at far less cost to it. In addition, there is no need for the continuation of selective underwriting because the necessary adjustment to market forces has taken place. I also support the more positive and favourable assessment that the industry now has of itself and, I believe, that commentators and experts outside the industry also have of the industry and of the important part that promotion is playing in this more optimistic assessment. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 26 October 1978: 
How many general practitioners and specialists were granted permanent residence during the last 12 months for which figures are available? 
Has his attention been drawn to the recent Australian Medical Association Federal Council resolution that immigration of doctors be controlled and to previous projections that Australia suffers from an over-supply of doctors? 
If so, what is being done to restrict the entry of overseas doctors? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 1 4 November 1 978: 
How many cheese importers have been granted exemptions from the 120 day quarantine period. 
How much cheese is being imported by this method by (a) variety and (b) country of export. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 24 November 1 978: 
1 ) What Australian agricultural exports (a) are presently subject to import quota control by New Zealand, in the different categories of NAFTA or (b) are not included in NAFTA. 
Of these quota restrictions (a) which are overt and generally acknowledged and (b) which are covert but apply nevertheless. 
What are the present arrangements for Australian (a) wheat, (b) canned temperate fruit and tropical fruit, (c) citrus juice, (d) wine and (e) tomatoes. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 27 February 1979: 
1 ) What sum was paid by the private health funds under items 6469 and 274-275 since the introduction of these items or for any period for which the information is available. 
With the cost sharing of hospitals arrangement what is the sum paid by the Commonwealth and the States under items 6469 and 274-275 since the introduction of these items or for any period for which the information is available. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 27 February 1979: 
1 ) Will he explain why items 274-275 introduced in 1 976 and item 6469 introduced in 1974 were put on the Medical Benefits Schedule when existing items appeared to cover these. 
Were they introduced as a result of the Menhennitt and Levine rulings in 1 969 and 1971 respectively. 
Can the Minister for Primary Industry indicate the contribution to the dairy industry of the selective underwriting arrangements which the Government introduced last year under the stage 2 marketing arrangements? Does the position concerning underwriting vary between the States? Has the 96,000-tonne butter quota which is part of these arrangements been increased following requests from the dairy industry? 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 1 7 November 1978: 
What was the (a) average income and (b) percentage unemployed for the work force of (i) Canberra, (ii) Sydney, (iii) Melbourne, (iv) Brisbane, (v) Adelaide, (vi) Perth and (vii) Hobart for the latest period for which figures are available. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
When will the Australian gold coin announced in April 1978 be produced by the Mint. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 6 March 1979: 
1 ) Has the Department of Social Security denied unemployment benefits to 173 persons mentioned by the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs in the House of Representatives on 28 February 1979  (Hansard,  page 433), for their failure of the work test. 
If so, for what period of time; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 7 March 1979: 
1 ) Does the Federal Government provide finance for the Victorian Family and Community Services (FACS) program. 
If so, (a) how much and (b) what percentage is this of the total cost of the program. 
I join with other speakers in congratulating the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  on his fiftieth birthday. I think that he is probably continuing his celebration which began some time before his speech. I know that the present Parliament is more or less fifty years old as is the honourable member for Burke. I felt at one stage that I should say that both needed replacing, but in charity to the honourable member because of his great support and work for this concept I will restrict that comment to the building and not to him. 
When the present Parliament was constructed in 1927 it was designated a temporary building. This has become more and more painfully apparent even in the eight years that I have been a member. Parliament first accepted the challenge in 1955 to appoint a committee and to make recommendations for a new and permanent parliament house. Now in 1979, 25 years and several committees later, the great venture is almost underway. The time lag of 25 years is perhaps either a reflection on the efficiency of parliamentary committees or the hesitancy to make decisions in favour of major public buildings in Australia, particularly parliamentary buildings. I say that the new venture is almost underway because the first stage of the design competition is about to begin and with it the great challenge to complete the building by 1988 which will be Australia 's 200th anniversary of settlement. 
A great venture and a challenge it is. The new and permanent parliament house will be the most significant, symbolic structure in and of Australia. If it is not, because of failure in the concept and construction of the building or because of failure of Australians to see it as such, it will be an expensive tragedy. Parliament House, the centre of the nation's capital and the seat of our democratic government, surely should be the symbol to Australians, along with the flag and the national song. The challenge is to have it seen and accepted as the symbol- a worthy substitute for Walter Burley Griffin's original concept of a capital building on Capital Hill as that symbol. 
The other pan of the challenge is the ability of those involved in the process, Parliament itself, the Joint Standing Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House, the Parliament House Construction Authority, the assessment panel, the people in the National Capital Development Commission and parliamentary officials who have already done so much work for it to have the building actually ready and of the required standard by 1988. The need for a new parliament house is apparent at least to me for both symbolic and practical reasons. It is necessary for practical reasons because the efficient functioning of the nation's Parliament is now difficult. It will become increasingly more difficult in the intervening nine years or however long it takes for the new Parliament to be constructed. 
Criticism of the proposal and the final cost has been made and will continue to be made. Those who have expressed a criticism to me have soon been silenced when I have shown them around the building and they have seen the conditions in which people work. I reassure the doubters and critics that the facilities for those who will work in a building that will be completed in 1988, whether they be members of Parliament or staff, are already modest by international parliamentary standards. I have visited a number of overseas parliaments. I would say that their facilities are more spacious than the facilities we have planned. We have to silence or reassure the doubters so that we can obtain the goodwill of Australians towards this project. We have to take positive action if we are to obtain this goodwill. We have to indicate that the new parliament house will not be just for members of Parliament or the people who work there. The people outside the system have to be involved as overseers or as guardians of the public good and the public purse- hence my reason for supporting an outside Construction Authority representing the public good. 
A delicate balance is needed between Parliament in the chambers and in debate, the Joint Standing Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House, the Executive Government and the wider public. I cannot say that I am 100 per cent in agreement with the balance as I have seen it as a member of the Joint Standing Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament 
House for several years. For example, all the political parties must support and continue to support the concept. They must be given a continuing opportunity to be involved. If they are not, doubts and problems will arise. I am not convinced that this fact has been recognised to the extent that it could have been. The situation is still fragile. There is still the danger that a group of politicians may attempt to gain short-term political advantage by decrying the concept, the cost or something else as it evolves. I am not completely happy with the way that the Executive has overruled the Committee on several major aspects. 
The Construction Authority is a responsible group from wider Australia, but I believe it lacks representation of two significant sectors if it is to be seen as a group representing wider Australia and the public good. The first group it fails to acknowledge or represent is the union movement. I believe that a union representative should be on the Construction Authority. I also believe that a representative of country Australia should be on the Authority. I speak as a country person and as a country member of Parliament. Time after time country Australia is forgotten when we look for representative groups for various purposes. I believe the assessment panel is a most suitable and expert group, blending architecture, construction and parliamentary experience. However, I would make a comment on the parliamentary representation. I believe that one of the two parliamentary members should be somebody with a far longer parliamentary experience than the present representatives. Somebody who has been a member of Parliament for 10 of 15 years and who completely understands the parliamentary process should be one of the representatives. Overall, I support the concept. The criticisms I make are not of sufficient concern to blunt my support for the concept or that of the National Country Party on whose behalf I am speaking tonight. We wish a happy 1988, with the highlight being the opening of the new and permanent Parliament House. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 6 March 1979: 
1 ) What was the quota or guideline for pea imports from New Zealand, as determined by the pea and bean panel, for the years for which one was set, and what were the actual imports of peas for those years. 
At what stage are current negotiations and what is the position of the Australian growers, Australian processors and New Zealand growers on this issue. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health, who will be aware that the Government's recently introduced isolated patients and travel accommodation assistance scheme, which was introduced to provide some degree of equity to country people in relation to medical specialist consultations, is not working properly because of administrative difficulties and anomalies. What is being done to overcome these problems? 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the problems that may arise, especially to the adjacent international satellite frequencies, from the increased use of the non-standard Channel 5A television frequency. 
2 ) Has a full investigation been made into alternatives including the use of the UHF allocation. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 7 March 1979: 
Will he update the answer to Question No. 2167  (Hansard,  17 October 1978, page 1975) which sought information on the level and structure of prices for market milk in each of the capital cities. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 24 November 1 978: 
1 ) Will his attempts to control hospital costs by restrictions on the number and classification of hospital beds be nullified if similar limits are not placed on private hospital beds; if so, what power does he have to prevent the unnecessary intrusion of the Hospital Corporation of America into the private hospital industry. 
What powers do State Governments have to restrict unnecessary private and public hospital bed expansion. 
What discussions are taking place with the States to co-ordinate policy on private and public hospital beds. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 20 February 1 979: 
1 ) Are there any advantages for Australian exporters of meat and other fresh produce in the use of Dormovac shipping containers. 
If so (a) which products for which markets will receive the greatest benefit; and (b) what is being done to obtain these containers. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 2 1 March 1 979: 
Where is the $80 million in the current wheat stabilization scheme stabilization fund deposited, and what interest rate is received. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 21 March 1979: 
1 ) When will the Primary Industry Bank accept stock firms as agents. 
Will the Bank accept stock mortgages as a security for loans to farmers; if not, how can a farmer living in an area of leasehold title, or where stock rather than land is considered the more valuable, equitably share in the benefits of the Bank. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 21 March 1979: 
What sums did the Commonwealth Development Bank lend in the latest 12 month period for which figures are available and to which categories of borrowers. 
From which sources was the money obtained. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 21 March 1979: 
1 ) Is the Commonwealth Development Bank allowed to accept stock or plant mortgages as security for loans to farmers, particularly share farmers, who have no real property, if so, can this fact be publicised. 
If the arrangements cannot be publicised, what is necessary to allow the Bank to do so. 
Has this proposal been seriously considered before; if not, will it now be considered. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 29 March 1979: 
1 ) Is he able to state whether the United States Government's Large Crop Inventory Experiment (LACIE) is jointly administered by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), and the United States Depanment of Agriculture ( USDA). 
If so, are Canada and Russia participating with the United States in the experiment and which other countries are participating. 
3) Is Australia a participant: if not, why not. 
Is the Australian wheat crop being independently monitored by this or some other US satellite system. 
Have any Australians been involved in any way in this or any other crop surveillance work to ensure that this new technology is available to Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 27 February, 1979: 
Which (a) government and (b) non-government schools in the Electoral Division of Murray have received Government grants during the period 1 975-78. 
Where grants were made, (a) what was the amount of each grant, (b) for what purpose were the grants made and (c) from which fund were they paid. 
-Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware of the delays now being experienced by applicants for Primary Industry Bank loans; that is, delays between the approval of the loan, including the acceptance of the risk by the applicant's trading bank, and the provision of loan finance by the Primary Industry Bank of Australia? What advice can the Minister give the frustrated farmer and the embattled local federal member of parliament on this problem? 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 6 March 1 979: 
1 ) Does the Wheat Board maintain that wheat can be kept at a satisfactory standard in on-farm storage for (a) 1 month, (b) 3 months, (c) 6 months or(d) 12 months. 
Which body is responsible for establishing storage standards, the Wheat Board or the state bulk handling authority. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 6 March 1979: 
Did any discussions take place between the Wheat Board and the State bulk handling authorities on the provision of temporary storage prior to the commencement of the harvest. 
If so, (a) were any minimum standards or guidelines established for the construction of these temporary storages, (b) what were they and (c) have they been observed in each State. 
If not, is the Wheat Board still satisfied that none were necessary. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 6 March 1 979: 
How much wheat has been accepted by the New South Wales bulk handling authority under the temporary storage incentive scheme of that State. 
What is the amount of the incentive, for what period of time, and what are the storage standards required by the Authority. 
Is he able to state whether this type of short-term onfarm storage is a preferred form of assistance by the State bulk handling authorities to the creation of a long-term (6-12 months) on-farm storage policy which would be a departure from previous grain storage policy in this country. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 6 March 1 979: 
1 ) Was the CSIRO research work on temporary storage for wheat available to the Wheat Board and the State bulk handling authorities in time for the preparation of the necessary earthworks ahead of the 1 978 harvest. 
If so, would observance of this work have avoided the double handling and rain-caused quality deterioration resulting from the unsatisfactory temporary storages which were used in the harvest. 
Why was action taken after, rather than before, the harvest. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 6 March 1979: 
1 ) Will an International Wheat Agreement be concluded before the next Australian harvest. 
) If so, will Australia be required as a pan of that Agreement to maintain a grain reserve. 
Who will be responsible for the construction and maintenance of any grain reserve storage, (a) the grower, (b) the Federal Government or (c) the State Government, and if it is a Government, will it be by loan or grant. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 6 March 1979: 
1 ) How much wheat stored in temporary storage in each of the States producing wheat has been rain affected since receipt. 
Will growers who delivered wheat of ASW quality or higher to these storages but whose wheat has now been rain affected, be paid the ASW price or a lower price. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 2 1 March 1979: 
Did the New South Wales bulk handling authority as a condition of acceptance of wheat under the temporary storage incentive scheme introduced as an experiment for the last harvest, require (a) an inspection of the farm storage and (b) the wheat to be fumigated prior to receipt into that storage. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 1 May 1979: 
Since the Commonwealth, in association with the States, commenced the accelerated campaign for the eradication of bovine brucellosis and tuberculosis, 
how many cattle have been tested, and how many and what percentage have been positive reactors, 
what percentage of the beef and dairy herd are now declared free of either disease, 
how many private and Government veterinaries and other officers have been used, 
what is the average cost per test and 
is trace back or periodic universal testing being used once a herd is declared free, in each State and Territory. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 20 March 1 979: 
What are the details of (a) capital cost, (b) annual expenditure, (c) number of staff and (d) services provided under the (i) Community Health Program and (ii) School Dental Scheme for each project in each Federal electoral division. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 21 March 1979: 
1 ) When will the Cocos Island quarantine station commence operation. 
How many and what type of livestock will be accepted for the first intake. 
From which country will livestock come and what will be the quarantine period. 
Who is responsible for establishing priorities for the use of the station and for determining the matters referred to in parts (2) and (3). 
How will priorities be established for the many prospective livestock importers wishing to use the station. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 1 May 1979: 
1 ) Further to his press releases on the Multilateral Trade Negotiations Agreement with the United States of America, what duty reductions have been gained for (a) fresh pears and (b) dried fruits. 
What is the present level and value of exports to the United States of these products. 
What (a) is the present and just agreed import tonnage of chocolate crumb to the United States, (b) is the butterfat percentage of the product and (c) will the value be to Australia. 
asked the Minister for Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 26 October 1978: 
1 ) Have any food processing companies in Victoria or elsewhere recently been forced to agree to pay increases by the Food Preservers Union which are contrary to the indexation guidelines. 
If so, which are the companies, and how do the wage and conditions settlements breach the guidelines. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 9 May 1 979: 
Is any of the equipment necessary for the conversion of automotive petrol engines to LPG included in the motor vehicle local content plan if offered as original equipment; if not, have any manufacturers of vehicles or LPG equipment applied for inclusion? 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 6 March 1979: 
1 ) Further to his answer to a question without notice on 28 February 1979  (Hansard,  page 433) is it a fact that (a) the work test has not been applied to single persons over the age of 1 8 years outside the local district, for the fruit picking vacancies because the work is short-term, (b) during the dairy industry depression in the winter months of 1976 and 1977 single dairy farmers over the age of 18 years in the Goulburn Valley were work tested for job vacancies in Melbourne with companies such as Patons Brake Replacements Pty Ltd and (c) although it was known the work for those single dairy farmers would be short-term, benefit was denied for failure to proceed with job interviews in that city. 
2 ) Is the Commonwealth Employment Service applying a double standard between country and city on the work test. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 7 March 1979: 
1 ) How many persons in the Shepparton Commonwealth Employment Service district were work tested for fruit picking in the area in February 1 979. 
What percentage of the total number registered for employment in the district does this represent and how many remained unemployed in the district at the end of the month. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 7 March 1979. 
1 ) Have persons registered for employment in non-fruit growing areas of the Shepparton Commonwealth Employment Service district or in nearby areas such as Yarrawonga, Benalla, Nagambie or Elmore been work tested for fruit picking in the Shepparton-Cobram-Kyabram fruit area during the 1979 season. 
In particular, is it a fact that persons registered at Echuca or Rochester have not yet been required to be work tested for fruit picking at Kyabram, less than 30 miles away. 
asked the Minister for Employment arid Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 7 March 1979: 
1 ) How many persons registered for work in Melbourne volunteered to go to the Shepparton Commonwealth Employment Service district in February 1979 to pick fruit or tomatoes. 
Of these persons, how many (a) were (i) under the age of 1 8 years or (ii) married, (b) were (i) male and (ii) female, and (c) required (i) accommodation on the orchard, (ii) return rail tickets or (iii) other transport assistance. 
How many vacancies for fruit or tomato pickers in the area remained unfilled at the end of February 1 979. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 7 March 1979: 
1 ) What is the recommended retail price for (a) 600 ml, ( b ) 1 litre and (c) 2 litre cartons and/or bottles of milk for (i) home delivery and (ii) store purchase in the Australian Capital Territory and what are the separate components of this final price. 
Has his attention been drawn to the criticism of the various margins which are allowed for the processing, distribution and administration of ACT milk which allegedly compares unfavourably with other capital cities, and which appears to discriminate against the farmer and contracting dairy company when compared with the other sectors of the chain; if so, is there justification for this criticism. 
If the criticism is not justified can he provide evidence to support his answer. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 7 March 1979: 
Is it a fact that the price paid to farmers and/or processing depots for milk purchased by the ACT Milk Authority is the cheapest of any of the capital cities but the average wage of persons living in the Australian Capital Territory is the highest in Australia. 
If so, is this an equitable or sustainable arrangement? 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 7 March 1979: 
Has milk consumption in the Australian Capital Territory since the commencement of the present contract period been above the contracted amount; if so, how has this additional quantity been allocated. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 7 March 1979: 
1 ) Is there any form of milk promotion in the Australian Capital Territory. 
If so, (a) who is responsible, (b) what sums have been spent and (c) how is it financed. 
Has the ACT been included in any of the milk promotion campaigns of the State Dairy Industry Authorities or the Austraiian Dairy Corporation such as  Milk It Instead,  Big M,  Moove  or  Easy Summer Living;  if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 8 March 1979. 
1 ) Is it a fact that there is a shortage of tomato pickers in the Echuca area. 
If so, will part of the crop rot before it can be harvested. 
Is he able to state whether growers supplying one of the processing factories claim to be 64 pickers short and are threatening to hold a meeting at the factory to protest against the Government's policy on unemployment benefits. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 29 March 1979: 
1 ) Further to question No. 3392  (Hansard,  27 March 1979, page 1 194) how much of the $2.1m allocated by the Commonwealth to Victoria over the 3 year period through the Family Support Services Program already has been granted. 
To which organisations in which Federal electoral divisions in Victoria have these grants been made. 
Have the grants been publicised as being provided by the Commonwealth or have they been hidden in the Victorian Family and Community Services Program. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
Is there a shortage of gas cylinders suitable for automotive use which is retarding the conversion of cars to liquefied petroleum gas, and thus impeding the implementation of the Government's energy policy. 
If so, what is being done to overcome this shortage. 
-The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  referred to hypocrisy at the start of his speech. Reference was made by the honourable member for Calare  (Mr MacKenzie)  to a document called  Australia Ripped Off.  That was printed by the Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union. It was supposed to help Australian workers. I have been advised that  Australia Ripped Off  was printed on uncoated supercalendered gravure paper from Finland. The cover of the document is Japanese. It was imported by a Dutch company. Yet Australian paper was available. So much for the concern and straightforwardness of Opposition members. They should be a little more careful when they talk about hyprocrisy. The honourable member for Prospect also referred to accuracy. He said that when jobs became available a Labor Government would force a tighter administration of the work test. Does that mean that Labor will revoke the 1 973 work test guidelines which it introduced and which provided the easiest way out for nonworkers in the history of Australia at a time before unemployment gained strength under the successive months of its rule? Honourable members opposite cannot have it both ways. They should think a little before they either reinforce that statement or agree to change it. 
Today we are not talking about 'dole bashing' as many of the newspapers in their editorials and members of the Opposition like to call any attempt to share more equitably and efficiently the resources available to welfare. I do not use the term. I think it is unfortunate and derogatory. However, smear terms are used by the two extremes in this debate. Some people say that everybody is a 'dole bludger' unless he is forced to work, and that there should be no benefits. Other people on the alternative side scream that any time anyone questions the efficiency or equity of the present system he is a 'dole basher'. These two extremes should not prevent people from constructively criticising abuse and recommending changes to improve the efficiency, equity and cost benefit of the welfare dollar to see that it goes to those in the greatest need. 
It is difficult to determine objectively what is genuine need as distinct from perceived need or to isolate those who abuse the system. But there is no doubt that abuse of the system does exist. As members of parliament we would all know this because of the repeated complaints from our constituents. Most of the complaints, in my area at least, come from the ordinary working person. He is fed up because after he finishes his day's work and goes down to the pub at night, he finds somebody who has a spurious welfare claim and has been at the pub all day. It may be that the person abusing the system is the next door neighbour such as a de facto claiming benefits incorrectly. It may be a person who is claiming unemployment benefit while he is working or it may be a person who is claiming multiple benefits. It may be somebody with a phoney invalid pension. These ordinary people are wild because it is their taxes that are being squandered. 
However, when these people are challenged to provide the necessary detail for a social security investigation, they usually run for cover for one or two reasons. Either they do not want to become involved or they have that Australian habit of not wanting to 'dob someone in'. So there is no simple answer to reducing the abuse of the welfare system. We cannot afford, on a costbenefit basis, to have a sufficient number of social security investigatory officers to check out everything. But we must have more and more frequent and significant random checks than we have at present, because it appears that we are not going to have the alternative method of checking abuse that is used in the United Kingdom and the United States and some other Western countries; that is, the use of an identity card system, which would need to be for every Australian, not just those on benefits. The last major check on abuse of the unemployment benefit payment system was made by the last Labor Government. It was instituted in 197S at a time when the Labor Government was becoming increasingly concerned at the abuse following its 1973 easing of the work test guidelines. Of 1 12,000 people checked, 30 per cent were being overpaid or were not entitled to that benefit. That is an indication of how significant the extent of abuse can be. Another check is under way at present. 
In addition to these general checks, there are three areas in which the Government can do something specifically. The first two relate to section 107C of the Social Security Act which the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  announced in March was under review. The first relates to strikes. In 1947 the then Labor Prime Minister,  Mr Chifley,  introduced guideines which remained as he introduced them until 1973, when they were altered by the then Labor Government. The Chifley guidelines for strikes are as follows: 
Members of a union which is directly involved in a strike are not eligible for benefit; Members of a union which supports the strike and whose members become unemployed because of the strike are not eligible for benefit; Members of a union which disowns the strike and whose members become unemployed because of the strike are qualified for benefit. 
In 1973, Labor changed that policy to provide that:  members of striking union(s) at the establishment at which the industrial dispute is in force, are not eligible for unemployment benefit . . . Members of other unions at that establishment who were stood down as a result ofthe dispute will however, be paid unemployment benefit subject to the usual conditions. Persons stood down at other establishments as a result of the dispute will be granted unemployment benefit subject to the usual conditions, irrespective of their union membership. 
I strongly recommend to this Government that we return to the Chifley guidelines in relation to strikes and unemployment benefits. The second part of section 107C refers to the administrative guidelines for the application of the work test. 
Before Labor lost office in 1975, on two separate occasions and after its 1973 amendment, it tightened or toughened the guidelines. This is an indication of Labor's concern when in government of the abuse which was taking place. The 1973 amendment brought in the famous situation of the liontamer. A person could indicate a preference for a job which did not really exist and therefore he could not be work tested; nor could a person who deliberately moved into an area where there was no work. This Government has instituted two further changes to the guidelines and a third is in sight. The first of those two, made in January 1976, was really made only on the recommendation of a review instituted by Labor in 1975, once again because of Labor's continuing concern for abuse of the system. Today there are still anomalies, inequities and abuses and they relate to the question of work testing for casual or seasonal work, the question of work testing for work outside the Commonwealth Employment Service district and the question of the six weeks to three months grace period before any change in status. 
These in total amount to unfair discrimination between country and city workers and unfair discrimination between the manual worker and the non-manual worker. This was graphically illustrated, in the last few months in the Goulburn Valley where, during the fruit-picking season, there was no work test required for those outside the immediate district or for those who had a previous white collar occupation or who, as a school leaver, had given a preference for something other than manual work. At that time, 252 Melbourne unemployed voluntarily came to Shepparton to fill some of these vacancies- and all credit to them for doing so- but they were not really required. At the same time that there were over 400 job vacancies in Shepparton, yet with 2,000 people still registered for employment in the Shepparton district, no work test was being applied to these people in an effort to fill those vacancies. Because of the work test guidelines, the CES people were not able to do anything about the matter. In this respect, I refer to a letter which I have received from a women's organisation in the Goulburn Valley and which reads in part: 
It concerns the shortage of fruit pickers in the surrounding fruit-growing areas, more particularly Cobram, whilst the younger unemployed persons registered with the CES at Wangaratta were not even being informed of these potential jobs. 
It took a news segment on our local TV station, wherein growers were lamenting the wastage of sound fruit, to bring forward these vacant and above-award paying jobs (albeit temporary) with accommodation and board available, for the consideration of the bulk of the local unemployed.  the following morning, I queried the CES as to how this could happen and was told, in essence, that these people had not indicated in their preferences that they could be interested in fruit-picking, nor that they would consider casual work! 
That is another thing that needs changing. In the winter of 1976 when dairy farmers in the Goulburn Valley were unemployed, they were work tested for what was known to be a temporary job in Melbourne. So we have to overcome these anomalies and this unfair discrimination. If the Labor Party was really genuinely in support of the blue collar worker it would stand up for him in this unfair discrimination. The third point refers to income testing. The self-employed person is on an annual income test while the wage and salary earner is on a weekly income test. There is a tremendously unfair discrimination against the self-employed person in the determination of that income. 
I would like to refer to a few comments made by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin).  One of the points that he made when speaking about the beef market and access was that we went to the European Economic Commission and got our heads kicked in. I do not think he has read the statement made by the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland).  We have gained real access to the EEC under the multilateral trade negotiations. So much so that both the dairy industry and the fruit industry are saying that everything has been gained for the beef industry at their expense. I do not believe that. But, contrary to what the honourable member said, real access is being gained. 
The honourable member for Werriwa also made some comment about dual meat inspection. He made the noise which we all make- that it is a waste of money, that it is inefficient, that it is about time something was done, and we have not heard anything on this subject from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  for months. Has not the honourable member for Werriwa ever heard of the 'Modest Member'? The Kelly inquiry is now under way to try to overcome this problem of dual meat inspection. If my memory is correct, I think that one of the reasons why it took so long to get started was the intransigence of the New South Wales State Labor Government. For a long time that Government refused to allow its abattoirs to be included in the inquiry. 
Then the honourable member for Werriwa tried to give the impression that we were in Government in 1975. Labor was in Government for virtually all of 1975. That was the period when the bottom was reached in the beef market. That was the period when nothing was done to implement the Industries Assistance Commission report on brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication. That was the time when nothing was done to alleviate the cost of the beef industry. He also referred to buffer fund schemes and the other aspects of the report of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. I acknowledge that it is a dead issue now and that it will remain a dead issue until the next collapse in the meat market. I also acknowledge that objective measurement, meaning classification in this case, is a prerequisite for some form of fund scheme. I want to make this point most strongly: The scheme does work in New Zealand. It has limitations- any scheme has limitations- but it is part of a series of far better marketing arrangements for New Zealand producers than this country has or will have for many years. I do not accept the BAE arguments regarding buffer fund schemes. I believe that we will live to see the day, unfortunately, when there is another collapse in the market and when we will have to do something constructive in that area. 
The total increase in the charges in the seven livestock Bills associated with the two series of cognate debates is a very high 198 per cent. On a per adult beast basis it will increase from the present total of $2.20 to $5.82. For dairy bobby calves it is even more severe. I believe that the industry should have been allowed more time to recover financially before imposing these charges. People forget that although the prices received for cattle are now very satisfactory, they have not been at this level long enough for quite a percentage of those in the meat producing industry, particularly beef producers, to have shared in the revival. As other honourable members have pointed out, prices can collapse just as dramatically as they have burgeoned. If prices plummet the Government has a responsibility to remove these additional charges and support the industry. I am confident that a Liberal-National Country Party Government would do this because it very quickly removed the meat inspection charges when returned to office in 1976. Australian Labor Party speakers have referred to this responsibility for the government and have indicated their sympathy. I only hope that they will be more genuine next time than they were in the 1974-75 period when the meat market collapsed. 
Now that greater charges have been introduced I believe that there is quite a responsibility for greater accountability and efficiency in the expenditure of those moneys. I believe that the beef producer organisations, or grower organisations generally because grain and wool are included, have the right and the responsibility to see that there is accountability for this expenditure. If a modified eradication program is not introduced- it has been suggested that this could save $34m in the brucellosis schemes- we would want to have some good explanations as to why not. The meat inspection or slaughter charges are about to be levied at the 50 per cent level. I hope that the fact that it has not been brought in at the 1 00 per cent level is a recognition by the Government that the Government does have a public health responsibility in this area- that the 50 per cent is at least some acknowledgment of Government responsiblity. I would hope that this is so. This would be a better guarantee that in future the Government will not increase it to 100 per cent. 
A new category has been declared for slaughter inspection charges in respect of bobby calves, that is, small dairy calves up to 40 kilograms dressed weight. This special category, I understand, was introduced at the request of the Australian Dairy Farmers Federation. It feared worse treatment without a special category. I understand that the Federation has complimented the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  for acceding to that request. I am led to believe that it is somewhat disappointed about the increased disease eradication charge, but is happy that it is being applied at the same rate as sheep. That was its request. 
I live in one of the most concentrated dairy areas of Australia. Under the Bill a bobby calf up to 40 kilograms dressed weight will be subject to certain charges. I want to remind honourable members that 40 kilogram dressed weight is well above the average for a bobby calf in northern Victoria. The rates, if I have sorted them out properly, are as follows: Commonwealth meat inspection, 18c; Victorian meat inspection, 26c; disease eradication, Commonwealth, 30c; Victorian cattle compensation, about 20c for an average calf at the moment- this will be increased because Victoria is lifting its compensation levels- the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation charges and research, 2.7c; yard dues, a local government charge, 10c. The total for the Federal, State and local government charges is $1.06. I would have to qualify this statement to the extent that I understand the Victorian Government will probably bring in a half inspection charge in line with its recent election commitment. There is also some doubt in all the States as to whether the State charge is levied on calves for domestic consumption. 
For calves in the 40 to 90 kilograms dressed weight sector the Commonwealth charge will be $1.37. When that is added to the State charges the total should be slightly over $2. These charges are set at the same level as those for sheep and 10 per cent of the adult cattle rate. However, I believe that this is unfair in respect to bobby calves. A more accurate figure would be 5 per cent of the cattle rate. At the moment the average bobby calf in northern Victoria is bringing about $20. This will fall by at least 25 per cent in July and August when the glut of bobby calves comes on the market. Even last year calves were selling for little more than $ 1 in some instances. At that price there is not much change out of $1.06, and that does not take the seller's commission and transport into account. 
In 1975, 1976 and 1977 thousands of calves were sold in my area for 50c a head. Eventually they were not taken into the saleyards; they were shot. That does not rank very well with a total charge of $1.06 per head. I reinforce the point I made earlier that there is a requirement for the Government to remove charges if there is a general collapse in the meat market. This is even more so for calves. If prices fall, they are likely to fall lower for bobby calves than for adult cattle and they are likely to fall sooner. The bobby calf market in northern Victoria is very fragile. If this happens, I believe that the Government has a responsibility to remove these charges, otherwise it could be charged with being the promoter of wholesale calf shooting. In spite of what I have said, I support the legislation. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Riverina) (9.11)-The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  is true to the form of the Liberal and National Country parties in trying to cover up for the weaknesses of the Fraser Government. In trying to justify the weakness of the dual inspection system, he claimed that it was caused by the New South Wales Government. This is the old dodge of those parties. It is a shame that we find it in the debate on these rural measures. The honourable member spoke, about the Australian Labor Party's actions at the time of the collapse of the beef market. I can remember having several discussions on that occasion with the beef producers who came before our rural committee. The measures we introduced at that time met with the approval of the beef producers. 
When talking about the collapse of the rural industries, the honourable member should have cast his mind back further to the time when the wheat industry was in trouble. What did the Government do on that occasion? It introduced wheat quotas that were a tragedy. They met with the disapproval of every wheat grower in Australia. Furthermore, he should remember the time when the wool industry was in trouble. What did the Government do on that occasion? It introduced a system of deficiency payments. If the honourable member wants to leave the Parliament he should ask the wool growers whether they want to go back to that system. The performance of the Liberal and National Country parties was shocking. Members of those parties should be the last ones to go back into history, try to distort the truth and say that such and such a thing was caused by the Labor Party. The memories of the people are not so short. 
The honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin)  has already outlined the benefits and disadvantages of the Live-stock Slaughter (Export Inspection Charge) Bill and the Live-stock Slaughter (Export Inspection Charge) Collection Bill. I support the remarks made by him. I address myself to the Grain (Export Inspection Charge) Bill 1979. This Bill was introduced for the export inspecton of grains- wheat, oats, barley and sorghum. The Bill is aimed at collecting approximately half of the total inspection cost. The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. We believe that it is important in putting high quality wheat, oats, barley and sorghum on the export market. To do this it is important that we have an efficient inspection system. If it is efficient it is of benefit not only to the producer but also to the nation. It seems to me that in those circumstances it is reasonable for both parties to share the cost. 
I believe it is important that we put high quality grains on the export market. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics in its forecast entitled Coarse Grains- Situation and Outlook' tells us that the outlook for 1978-79 for world coarse grain is for record supplies, reduced import demands and continued downward pressure on prices. This is brought about through record world production of 726 megatonnes and a consumption of 710 megatonnes. The carry-over of stocks, excluding those from the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and China, is expected to increase to a record level of 88 megatonnes. On the other hand, world trade is expected to decline by 4 per cent to 78 megatonnes or 1 1 per cent of the world's output. However, it is pleasing to note that the assessment for 1 979-80 is brighter. It is based on an expectation of average seasonal conditions. It must be remembered that the season just past was above average. This will bring about lower production as a result of reduced yields. In addition, it is expected that there will be some reduction in the United States acreage as a consequence of the high world domestic stocks and the low prices of the previous season. 
Despite the probability of lower world production and the continued upward trend in world consumption, the record level of opening stocks should prevent any sharp increase or upward movement in prices. This being the case, it is important that the farmers keep up not only the level of their harvest but also the high quality and top condition of the grain when it reaches its destination. Considering the importance of an official inspection system, we should not lose sight of the things that will influence the rate of buying. These are the consumption needs of the buyer, the way the buyer evaluates the future supply and demand development and, of course, the quality of the grain offered. All these things have something to do with the legislation before the House. Early in the week the House debated the Wheat Industry Stabilization Amendment Bill and the Wheat Industry Stabilization (Reimbursement of Borrowing Costs) Bill. We were told that the wheat harvest was worth $2,000m and that it earned $ 1,800m in exports. To get an overall picture of the whole grain situation, I think that we should look at the forecast of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics on coarse grains and give consideration to the whole grain situation at one time. I refer to page 2 of the Bureau 's forecast entitled 'Coarse GrainsSituation and Outlook'. It states: 
The outlook for the Australian industry is for a record harvest of 6.4 Mt in 1978-79. With only a small anticipated increase in domestic consumption, exportable supplies are estimated at 3.2 Mt, nearly two and a half times greater than the previous season. The increase in production will be partly offset by lower export and domestic prices. Gross value of production for Australian coarse grains is estimated to rise by 40 per cent to $480m. 
It is obvious from that forecast that the nation has every reason to be pleased with its grain production. Regardless of the high quality of the grain that we put on the export market, however, demand will depend on such matters as the combined surplus held by countries such as South Africa, Thailand, Canada, Brazil and the United States, the size of the deficits in other countries, and their ability to pay in terms of foreign exchange. The second reading speech of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  on the Grain (Export Inspection Charge) Bill 1979 sets out the following charges: 
Bulk grains, not loaded into shipping containers- 4.5c per tonne. 
That seems to be very reasonable- 
Bagged grains, not loaded into shipping containers- 25.0c per tonne 
Bulk or bagged grains, loaded into shipping containers- $5 per container. 
Charges at these rates are estimated to yield $656,000 in a full year. These charges appear very reasonable when one considers our present export earnings and the prospect for developing our grain exports. According to the Bureau of 
Agricultural Economics, the consumption needs of East Europe, Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan will keep growing over the next few years. It is also intimated that several things could happen in regard to Soviet Union grain production and consumption, and a long-term prediction is hard to make. I think it is worth mentioning that in the last few decades every record crop in that country has been followed by a reduced crop. 
Whenever one mentions wheat production, one has to take into account over-the-border sales. In 1977-78, Australian Wheat Board sales for stock feed amounted to 400 kilotonnes. The total amount used for stock feed manufacturing is unknown because of the over-the-border sales, which are estimated to be one megatonne. Even with the High Court decision stopping acrosstheborder sales, this may not be of great advantage to wheat sales because of the low coarse grain wheat price ratio and the record coarse grain crop. It is important that we have an efficient inspection system because overall it appears that Australia has good prospects for increased exports and increased prices for its grain production. The Grain (Export Inspection Charge) Collection Bill 1979 amounts to a machinery measure that provides the authority to collect the charges mentioned in the Grain (Export Inspection Charge) Bill 1979. 
I wish to say something on the Wool Industry Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1979. This Bill conforms with the Bills introduced recently to implement decisions outlined in the mini-Budget. The Grain (Export Inspection Charge) Bill and the Grain (Export Inspection Charge) Collection Bill provide extra revenue by charging for inspection in respect of meat and grain. The Wool Industry Amendment Bill (No. 2) makes the same provision in respect of wool. This is revenue that was not previously available to the Government. The main purpose of the Wool Industry Amendment Bill (No. 2) is to provide the machinery to recover half the costs incurred by the Australian Wool Measurements Standard Authority in monitoring and registering wool sampling sites. From those sites samples are drawn for testing by the Australian Wool Testing Authority, an instrumentality established under the Wool Industry Act 1972. 1 think it is important, having mentioned the Wool Industry Act, to consider what the Act was all about. It was designed to set up a statutory wool authority, the Australian Wool Corporation. Its purpose was to bring under single direction the functions performed previously by two separate instrumentalities- the Australian Wool Board and the Australian Wool Commission. This measure was prompted by the fact that income from wool in 1972 had fallen to $634m, or 13.3 per cent of all merchandise exported. This was probably the lowest ever percentage for wool exports. Prior to that, wool constituted 30 per cent to 40 per cent of our exports and before the 1950s constituted up to 50 per cent of our exports. At the time, the Australian Wool Industry Council recommended that the new body, the Australian Wool Corporation, should be equipped with powers, including the power to acquire compulsorily the total Australian wool clip. In this regard I draw the attention of honourable members to page 42 of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics' publication on wool wherein it is stated: 
The AWC has also renewed proposals for the acquisition of wool destined Tor the export trade. In a recent report, prepared at the request of the Australian Wool Industry Conference, the Corporation has recommended that it should be the sole seller of export wools, although it proposes that the auction system be retained. The support of both the Australian Wool Industry Conference and the Commonwealth Government would be necessary before such a scheme could be introduced. 
In spite of this recommendation and the Government's oft-repeated claim that it does things at the request of the industry, we have heard very little in this House on the question. I mention it here only because I believe that it could have something to do with the sampling, testing and quality of our exported wheat. However, I think it is fair to say that there has been active investigation into the system of preparation and marketing of the Australian wool clip. It is some satisfaction to know that within Australia over the last year there were further developments in wool appraisal, handling and selling. Sales by sample in 1977-78 accounted for three-quarters of all auction sales, and it could be said that much progress has been made. 
Unfortunately, as wool growers have put it to me, Ned Kelly is still riding on the train, and I refer to wool broking charges. When the Prices Justification Tribunal report recommended that substantial cuts be made in brokers' commissions, a lot of disappointment was expressed in my electorate. In spite of this recommendation, brokers were able to wriggle out of it and another inquiry is to take place. As I have said, this was a great disappointment to the wool growers in my electorate, and I hope that the brokers will not be successful in this further inquiry. 
Although the Australian Wool Corporation's limited offer to purchase scheme is operating only for a trial period to test the Corporation's ability to effect reductions in handling costs through the acquisition of quantities of wool at earlier stages of the pre-auction distribution system, it has already been able to give some rebates to participating growers. 
Yet that scheme is to be fully evaluated. This seems to be a step in the right direction and one to which the wool growers are looking for further progress. We do not oppose these amendments. Instead we wait with interest for the further advancement of the measures taken by the Australian Wool Corporation. 
Debate interrupted. 
-The two Bills and the ministerial statement before the House signify significant changes to the Government's health scheme. In the near future they mean changes to medical benefits insurance, the classification of long term nursing home type patients, the beginning of a preventive health policy and an improvement to the isolated patients' scheme. In the longer term, with the hospital inquiry, hopefully they will mean more significant reductions to health care costs. As I see them, the reasons for the changes are as follows: Firstly, the need by the Government to prevent a dangerous increase in the Budget deficit next financial year. All sectors of government have had to share in the pruning. However, with health, there is the additional problem that although the present Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  has been successful in reducing the annual increase in health costs to under 1 1 per cent per annum, or down to about one-third of what the increase was when the Australian Labor Party lost office, that increase is still too high. Australia has one of the highest gross national product percentages of health costs in the world. We are running along at about 2 per cent behind the United States which at the moment spends about 10 per cent of its gross national product on total health costs. 
My final point on the debate on the changes is the opportunity it provides to move to new priorities in government-sponsored health care and to sort out some of the existing anomalies. The amendment moved by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  is most interesting because he is saying that if Labor were returned to power it would not reintroduce Medibank. I want to say that most definitely and specifically because with the amendment he has moved he is asking only for the 40 per cent Commonwealth medical benefit to be retained. I challenge the Labor speakers who will be following me- if I am wrong in my assertion I will be very pleased to be corrected- to say whether Labor reintroduce the original Medibank or not. From the wording of this amendment and from what I understand from discussions that have gone on between members of the Labor Party, Labor has no intention of reintroducing the original Medibank. I would like the Opposition to say so because the people of Australia would be interested to hear not just the negative criticisms of the Opposition on this matter but what it would do if returned to office. If the amendment moved by the honourable member for Prospect means that Labor would retain only the existing health insurance scheme- that is what the amendment states-then it is retaining something that it roundly criticised when this Government moved to that position last November. I think Labor should sort itself out a little before this debate progresses much further. 
The most significant immediate change is the abortion of the 40 per cent medical benefit payment contribution by the Federal Government, with the following exceptions. I will list these exceptions. The first is that pensioner health benefits cardholders will retain their present arrangement. Secondly, disadvantaged individuals will retain their present arrangement. Both of those groups will thus be protected. Thirdly, there will be the introduction of a universal medical guarantee whereby the Commonwealth will meet all medical benefits scheduled payments beyond the first $20 for service as it is doing at present. Coupled with these changes are the maintenance of coverage for pensioners and the disadvantaged, protection against disastrous medical expenses, and the continuation of free public ward hospital benefits. These are consistent with our philosophy of concentrating welfare towards those in genuine need. 
I regret the changes to the medical benefits scheme that are being passed tonight. I agree with the point made by the honourable member for Prospect about the need for an adequate data base- we do not have one at the moment- on which to make realistic or accurate decisions. I also acknowledge that earlier Liberal-National Country Party governments, through  Sir Earle  Page, introduced the Government contribution. I would have preferred to have seen a reduction in the current 40 per cent contribution by the Government, and a widening of the $20 gap, instead of that which is being introduced. I believe that too many changes have been made and that the public is confused. There is also the problem of timing. The new medical benefits arrangements begin on 1 September. I understand that on 1 November the new medical benefits schedules- that is the recommendations of  Mr 
Justice Ludeke- will be implemented. There will be the annual changes to charges allowed by nursing homes in the various States. One change is required for the health funds by 1 September and another by 1 November. This further adds to the ordinary person's confusion. 
I have doubts about the universal guarantee, that is, the 20 per cent maximum payment. Will it in fact protect needy people from embarrassingly large medical bills? I doubt it. There are two groups which come to mind. There are people with chronic illnesses who are required to repeated visits to general practitioners. Each ordinary GP consultation will not be above the $20 mark. This raises the parallel problem that chronically ill people are presently placed under financial stress by repeated medical benefit prescriptions at $2.50 a time. I will return to that point later. The second group will be single income families with a number of dependent children who have the recurring problem of visits by those children to doctors. There is the further problem of a possible tendency to push patients into the more expensive specialist sector of surgery when this may not be necessary. 
Contrary to what I have been saying- that is, that there have been too many changes already to the health scheme- I must say that, if the new guarantee system of $20 does not in practice provide protection against large medical bills in certain sectors of our society, the policy should be changed. There is a number of ways in which it can be changed. I will suggest one. That is the introduction of catastrophic medical cover which I believe could more adequately and efficiently and, from our view point, philosophically, protect those at risk. The scheme would operate by requiring a person to be automatically covered for the rest of his or her medical bills, once so many dollars had been spent in a 12 month period. The amount would vary depending on the status of the person- whether he or she was single, married, with or without dependent children, et cetera. The introduction of a catastrophic or front end deductible scheme has been discussed on a number of occasions. At that time I would have opposed those schemes because they would have interfered with other principles of health insurance which I support. That situation no longer applies. 
It will be of interest to honourable members that President Carter is developing for presentation to the United States Congress a national health plan, which has a medical cost catastrophic cover proposal as its first priority. However, one of the positive aspects of the change is that the Government now has a reduced commitment to an ill health policy, and can develop a more comprehensive well health or preventive health policy. I congratulate the Minister for grasping the opportunity to initiate a national health promotion program for which purpose $500,000 has been allocated initially. The value of preventive health expenditure is hard to quantify. I would suggest that we should concentrate on one or two definable areas. It would be a sick joke if, in the next Budget, funds for the school dental and community health schemes were abolished or severely reduced. At the present time, they are our only general preventive health schemes. 
I note again  President  Carter's health plan in which he provides a cash incentive to encourage people to join health maintenance organisations and he finances the pilot programs in preventive care, focusing upon one or two major diseases. I believe that the changes which have been made with respect to nursing home patients in hospitals are equitable. The anomoly that because a person was able to be placed in a public or private hospital he or she was financially better off than if he or she was placed in a nursing home. Where he or she should have been placed is removed. Similar arrangements to those in the State nursing homes will apply to public hospitals. At the moment the percentage of daily bed costs, that States require a pensioner to pay from the pension, varies considerably. 
I understand that the question of uniform percentages and /or charges has been raised with the States and that progress is being made in this direction. The uniform bed charge in private hospitals will be $7.25 a day. I understand this charge can be waived under certain circumstances. The insurance benefit level will be maintained and the Government will maintain a bed subsidy of $ 1 6 a day. All of these charges are necessary to preserve the private hospital system. People might be critical of the private hospital system but there are not enough beds in the nursing homes or public hospitals to go around, particularly in some country areas. 
There are various types of private hospitalsand I want to refer to the bush nursing hospitals in Victoria- which are registered as private hospitals where adjustment will be difficult with the new classifications of patients. I believe that because of what the Minister has been able to retain for patients classified as long term patients in private hospitals, such as the bush nursing hospitals, this adjustment will be acceptable. 
The honourable member for Prospect criticised the Government on the point of raising charges for nursing home type patients in public hospitals. He said that it was unfair. If it is unfair for a person in a public or private hospital to be charged a daily bed rate, surely it is equally unfair if that person is placed in a nursing home? I- and obviously the honourable member for Prospect- cannot see any difference in charging a person a certain amount if he or she is in a nursing home where he or she should be, or, if that nursing home bed is not available, charging a similar amount if he or she is in a hospital bed. If it is wrong to charge when that person is in a hospital, it is wrong to charge when he or she is in a nursing home. When Labor was in government, no attempt was made to abolish patient charges in nursing homes. 
-That is right and the Minister for Health improved the situation for patients. The honourable member for Prospect also said that this proposal would actually cost more money. In the short term, on a running cost basis, that is correct. He needs to look a little beyond that to the question of capital costs. If we do not make this change either a large number of hospital beds will not be fully utilised, or more nursing home beds will have to be made available, all at considerable capital cost. When one looks at costs in this situation, one should look at all the costs, and not just those selected because they are favourable to the viewpoint of the Labor Party. 
As the honourable member for Prospect said, the private health funds will gain about $13m a year from this rearrangement. However, I say that this is a good thing because it will help the private health funds, which are not flush at the moment, with the problems that they will face because of the new benefit schedules that will be required and because of the inadequacy of the reinsurance arrangements that presently prevail. I believe that hospital bed charge increases are overdue. It is almost three years since they were last increased. A completely artificial situation prevails with the determination of bed charges in this country. The charges appear to be more related to the influence they will have on the consumer price index than to the actual daily cost of a bed in a hospital. Hospital bed charges should be increased annually to maintain reality and a relativity between the different categories of hospital beds. 
I refer now to the proposed inquiry into hospitals. Hospitals represent the greatest cost factor in our health care scheme. Many people have mentioned that they account for about 60 per cent of the cost of the scheme. Hospitals are also the least accountable factor. Not even a Ludeketype justification arrangement as there is for general practitioners or fee for service doctors is required for hospitals. Gradually, more and more sectors of our society, government expenditure and private organisation charges are being subjected to some form of public scrutiny. The first inquiry was into the primary and manufacturing industries by the Industries Assistance Commission and the Prices Justification Tribunal. This term it is into hospitals. I hope that education will be next. I hope also that tertiary industry and all the self-imposed service charges by lawyers, accountants, banks, et cetera, at some time in the not too distant future will come under equal public scrutiny. Not only are hospitals not accountable but also the control system is fragmented. Six State and two territorial arrangements apply. There are various types of private hospital ownership. The Minister tells us that bed charges range from $1 19 a day in one State to $220 a day in a Territory. Bed ratios vary tremendously. 
The inquiry should have a tough, noquestionsbarred, independent chairman so that it will not be an in-house type review. There should also be a hospital administrator from an overseas country, hopefully Canada or the United States where some attempts have been made to quantify hospital efficiency. State representatives should be involved because the inquiry will be important to the States. I note the objection made by Queensland and the reservations now expressed by South Australia, New South Wales and Victoria on this matter. The cost of our hospitals is not just a matter of State responsibility and has not been since this Government entered into the hospital costsharing agreement with the States whereby the taxpayers of Australia through the Commonwealth Government paid for half the costs of those hospitals. That alone is justification for the Commonwealth to be conducting such an inquiry. I hope that the States will co-operate because I think that there are advantages for everybody in such an inquiry. 
Private hospital representatives must also be included on the inquiry. They play a significant part and there is quite a variety of them. There is obviously a great variation in their efficiency. The Hospital Corporation of America which has purchased and is rebuilding a number of existing private hospitals, should also be asked to give evidence at that inquiry. As I understand it, its entry into Australia is based on the premise that there is profit in applying modern business practice to hospital management and that a superior service can still be provided to patients. One can question that view but I believe that this is a good opportunity for the Corporation to give some evidence. 
When considering public hospitals we should be looking at the future of Commonwealth funding of unnecessary, acute hospital beds in inner city areas and the need for a better criteria to be applied to the funding of teaching hospitals. We should be reviewing the outpatient charging system in view of the change to the medical benefits scheme. There is a danger that outpatient facilities will be overloaded and that some sort of requirement for rationing or part charging may have to be introduced. Outpatient pharmacy departments are being used increasingly for the provision of prescription drugs without the application of the $2.50 prescription charge. There is a need to introduce criteria in respect of pharmaceutical benefits to cover the chronically ill and to protect them against this repeated cost. In addition, many Australians are not within easy distance of an outpatient department. We should tidy up the anomalies which apply to the chronically ill and to outpatients by ensuring that those in genuine need will be protected from excessive medical and pharmaceutical bills. It should not matter whether the service is provided through outpatient departments or through the ordinary commercial GP and pharmacy system. We should ensure that outpatient facilities are provided only for those in need. 
Finally, I wish to deal with the isolated patients' scheme. One of the valuable initiatives of the present Minister for Health and of the Government was to provide some equity in health care for country people. Labor Party members are very strong on inequity and having a social conscience when dealing with medical and hospital matters within city areas, but they are very silent on the inequity which exists between country and city areas. Let us hear a bit more from honourable members opposite so that one can believe that their social conscience extends to all Australians. I note the improvements in the isolated patients' scheme, particularly the removal of the need for prior approval and a more consistent definition of isolation. More changes may be necessary in this area and I trust that, with the present Minister, these changes will be made. I conclude by repeating the challenge to Labor members to tell us what they would do with Medibank if they were back in government. Would they reintroduce the original scheme or would they continue the scheme that we are now ending, as their amendment appears to indicate? I support the legislation. 
I congratulate the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  for implementing a commitment made by the Government during an election campaign. I believe it is a tremendous step forward for those people in our society who are chronically ill and who up until this stage have been prevented from being included in the domiciliary home care scheme because of the age limitation. Congratulations to the Minister on this significant advance. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. The Minister recently announced the first change to the domiciliary nursing care benefit scheme since its introduction by a Liberal-Country Party Government in 1972. Will the Minister endeavour to have the $2 a day benefit, which has remained unchanged since 1972, increased to a more realistic level before the 1 November starting date of the expanded eligibility criteria which now includes patients 16 years of age and over? 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 8 March 1979: 
Will he include the following matters in current review of the work test: (a) a redefinition of suitable work so that those physically capable of doing physical work are required to do so when it is available, and not be allowed to claim that they prefer clerical work or that physical work is beneath their dignity; ( b) a work test of persons in a different employment district or State to that in which there is a job vacancy, but which otherwise meets the criteria for travelling time and distance; (c) a recognition that there is not a double standard in the application of the work test between country and city persons; and (d ) a special provision for those who have been unemployed and take a short-term job such as fruit picking and who continue working until that work ends, that they be immediately eligible for the unemployment benefit at that time. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 8 March 1979: 
1  )  How many persons were registered for employment in February 1979 in (a) Echuca, (b) Rochester, (c) Cohuna, (d) Moama, (e) Mathoura,  (f)  Kyabram and (g) Tongala. 
How many persons from those centres were work tested in that month and placed in (a) tomato and (b) fruit picking. 
How many persons refused the work test for these jobs. (4)How many vacancies for these jobs remained at the end of the month for (a) tomato and (b) fruit picking at each of these centres. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 28 March 1979. 
) What criteria are used to formulate the Adjusted Family Income rate for the calculation of the living allowance under the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme. 
When was this rate last adjusted and by what percentage. 
Is this rate adjusted (a) regularly and (b) to take into consideration such things as the national wage adjustments. 
Is there any additional concession made for country children, who generally have greater distances to travel to attend a tertiary institution and who therefore of necessity have to obtain board, similar to the assistance given for isolated primary and secondary schoolchildren. 
If not, why is there special assistance for isolated primary and secondary schoolchildren but not for tertiary students. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 22 May 1 979: 
Further to his answer to Question No. 3363  (Hansard,  8 May 1979, page 1975) when the remaining four temporary sites in Victoria have been cleared will he advise of the amount of wheat which has been rain affected at each dump. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
) Will he provide statistics on trading bank term and development loan approvals before and since the establishment of the Primary Industry Bank to reassure many country people that these banks have not reduced their lending for primary producers. (2) Have any of these trading banks responded to the need for longer term rural loans, as evidenced by the demand for PIB loans, by themselves providing some loans of longer than 10 years duration; if so, which banks. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
1 ) Is the special Dutch Pyrolysis ship  Vulcanus  coming to or visiting Australia later this year; if so, for what purpose. 
) Can the Minister say who own this ship. 
Can the Minister also say if this is the ship which was successfully used to incinerate large quantities of agent orange, the low grade 245T, used as a defoliant in Vietnam. 
Will the Minister arrange for the ship to give practical demonstrations of high temperature incineration of intractable wastes, so that the recent attempt to establish a dump for such wastes at Dargile in northern Victoria, need not be repeated anywhere else in Victoria or Australia. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 2 May 1 979: 
What percentage of liquefied petroleum gas cylinders suitable for automotive use is imported. 
What is the tariff on these cylinders. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 22 May 1 979: 
1 ) What action is the Australian Government taking to reduce the recent Canadian tariff import on canned pears. 
Will the Government consider retaliatory action against Canadian cherry exports to Australia. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 24 May 1979: 
Has the European Economic Community required a reduction in Australian apple exports during 1979; if so, by what quantity. 
) Is he able to state whether other apple exporting countries have been required to do the same; if so, by what quantity. 
Has this action reduced the income of Australian apple growers. 
What action is being taken to prevent this from happening again, or to retaliate by restricting agricultural imports from the Community. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 28 May 1979: 
1 ) Further to question No. 343 1  (Hansard,  10 May 1 979, page 2 142), has a decision been made by the Government to extend the school dental scheme to secondary school students; if so, when will the mainland States be allowed to join Tasmania in including secondary school students in the scheme. 
If not, why has Tasmania been allowed to include this group when other States are some years away from comprehensive cover for all primary school students. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 7 June 1 979: 
1 ) In relation to the Rural Adjustment Scheme, what sums of (a) grant and (b) loan money, have been provided by the Commonwealth Government to each State during 1 978-79 to date. 
) What sums have each State made available under the Scheme from (a) Commonwealth contributions and (b) its own resources in each sector of the Scheme in that year. 
How many farmers, in which types of agriculture in each State, received assistance under the Scheme. 
What sum of the Commonwealth contribution will remain unspent by each State Government at the end of 1978-79. 
Is there any net cost to State Governments with the Scheme after allowing for any direct contributions, and administrative repayment arrangements, et cetera. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
1 ) What percentage of the total number of pharmaceutical benefit prescriptions are made by doctors for patients in (a) public wards of hospitals, (b) out-patient departments of public hospitals and (c) attendance at commercial pharmacies. 
What is the average prescribing cost of each of these categories. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 7 June 1 979: 
What progress is being made with the introduction of health maintenance organisations in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 7 June 1 979: 
What progress is being made with the introduction of a Peer Review mechanism for Australia and what type or aspects of health services will be included. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 2 May 1 979: 
What is being done to replace the present unwieldy and confused arrangement for the collection of excise on liquefied petroleum gas used in motor vehicles. 
-Every nation has problems with spiralling health care costs. Health care is absorbing an increasing percentage of gross domestic product and in government supported health schemes an increasing percentage of government budgetary expenditure. I shall list a few of the reasons for this. The provision of health care is labour intensive and labour is very expensive in Western nations. There has been an upgrading of the status and conditions of those in the labour force in the health care industry. There is high technology, which is expensive. We have an aging population which requires a greater degree of health care. No doubt, for many people at certain stages of our development as a nation health care has assumed a high priority in their attitudes to expenditure, either personal or governmental. 
Unfortunately, in spite of increased spending the state of the individual's health in Australia, and I would say in most Western nations- or the collective health of those individuals, the health of the nation- has not shown any corresponding improvement. In fact some of the increased expenditure may be even counter-productive. In advanced countries ways of containing or attempting to contain health cost increases are adopted. In a socialist system this is done by restricting access. A person cannot see the doctor in his official hours but has to see him afterwards although the doctor is still paid privately. Also access is restricted by the price mechanism in the more capitalistic societies or by a mixture of both factors in mixed systems. 
If one looks at the record of this country over the past three years, particularly the government sector of health care expenditure, one sees that the increase in government expenditure on health care in 1975-76 rose by 35 per cent on the figure for 1974-75. In 1976-77, the first full year of this Government's term of office, the increase had dropped to 14. 1 per cent and the next year it dropped to 10.7 per cent. I believe that the figures for the financial year just ended are not yet available but presumably the figure will be somewhat over 9 per cent. It is anticipated that the figure for the financial year we have just commenced will be about 9 per cent. This figure will be about the average of the general increase in government expenditure. Turning to the proportion of gross domestic product spent on health care costs in Australia in the last few years, we see that in 1 974-75 the figure was 8.9 per cent. That amount reflects total health care costs paid by all sectors that contribute, whether government or private. In 1975-76 the figure was 7.84 per cent; in 1976-77, 7.76 per cent and in 1977-78 the figure was 7.89 per cent. In other words, this Government has stabilised the percentage not just of government expenditure but of total health care expenditure in this country. This government has been successful in slowing the spiral to about the average cost increase for expenditure in society as a whole. 
Labor's argument about the effect of spiralling health care costs for the average family is obviously wrong. Labor loses the first round because the figures prove otherwise. This Government has contained spiralling health care costs in Australia, not just in the government sector but in total health care costs as a percentage of GDP. Labor can argue that if one looks at just the government sector one can see that there has been a transfer out of the government sector to the private sector because of the Government's changes. These transfers may have been borne individually or collectively through health insurance. Labor can argue that after 1 September there will be a transfer of a few more per cent of costs. To my knowledge the figures of total health care costs in Australia for the financial year just concluded are not to hand. But the figures I cited previously show that this Government has slowed the spiral and that the figures are very close to the general increase of costs in this society from one year to the other. 
The Government has done this through a number of measures. Let us look at a couple of them. Firstly, it has been successful in reducing inflation from the runaway days of the Labor Government. The doctors have been abused here today by interjection. I remind the honourable member who interjected that the Labor Government did not do anything about the doctors when it was in power. So it is rather pointless to make such interjections today. The Opposition should concede that there was a 22 months freeze on doctors ' fees in Australia and that obviously has been a contributing factor to the present situation. No matter how health care services are provided in this nation- whether by government, the private sector, the individual or a combination of both- they are not free. They are paid for by one means or another, such as taxes, by contributions to health funds or by direct payments to medical care providers. But if the treatment is provided by government some people say that it is free. But obviously it is not free: It is paid for by our taxes. If the honourable member who is seeking to interject will wait a minute he will realise that I have already beaten him on one point and I am about to deal with the second point. If the government commitment to provide health care is open-ended, as it was under the Labor Government, obviously the cost escalation or spiral through the government system, through a tax-based system, will run away even more. 
The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  and other Labor Party members in this Parliament today and yesterday have been trying to argue several impossible things at the same time. Firstly, they have been saying that taxes imposed by this Government are too high. Secondly, they have said that the Government should spend more money on health, welfare, education or other things. The honourable member shakes his head. Obviously in this debate he is saying that the Government should have been taking up more of total health care expenditure. The Opposition is also saying that inflation is too high. Putting all these arguments together makes an impossible situation. Even in this debate today the honourable member for Prospect referred to the increase in taxation in this year. The honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett),  who followed for the Opposition, also referred to indirect taxes. He seems to live in a dream world and to believe that somehow or other there can be one form of government expenditure that is not inflationary, that does not increase costs or taxes in some way but that there can be another form that is quite different. It is of interest that if the tax rates applying when Labor lost office in 1975 applied today the average family would be paying $ 1 6 a week more in tax. In addition, a further 500,000 people in this country who do not have to pay tax today would be paying tax if the Labor rates were still applied. Also, the cost of Medibank would have escalated, as would the costs of the other schemes that Labor introduced if they were still operating. So those tax rates would not have been sufficient by themselves to pay for a Labor Government of today. Either by stealth through the higher inflation that Labor had accelerated or through deliberate increases in tax rates the tax burden of the average Australian would have been far greater. 
The system would not be free. That situation is part of the spiralling alternative health care system that Labor had introduced. It is of no use Labor saying either that its total scheme would involve less cost- as I said, the evidence points otherwise- or that its scheme would be more equitable. How can Labor's scheme be more equitable if a dramatic increase in taxation is required to fund it? Even if Labor in government, as I believe its supporters proposed in Adelaide, were to introduce a maximum tax rate of 75c to 80c in the dollar- and there are too few wealthy people in this country- and even if it brought in a capital gains tax, death duties and a resource rent tax, all sectors of the Australian public would be required to pay more in taxation to fund Labor's far more expensive health care scheme. Labor's proposed scheme would be far more inefficient because it would have to be administered through a vastly expanded bureaucratic system. The inequities that the Opposition talks about would also exist in its scheme. In conclusion, one can say that this Government has not exacerbated the spiralling of costs; it has reduced it. It is not true for the Opposition to say that the Government has increased the inequities. 
-Government supporters who are in any way connected with agriculture would very much welcome these changes to the Quarantine Act. There are two significant sections. There is the question of compensation and the question of powers for quarantine officers. I am very pleased, and I believe that all those connected with agriculture in Australia would be pleased, that at last there is a settled procedure for obtaining compensation. There may have to be some significant decisions for the slaughter of whole herds of livestock and perhaps even districts will have to be sealed off if we are to control some diseases, but those in the farming community who may be involved must have confidence that any procedure that is enacted will provide fair compensation. I understand that the United Kingdom has a very good and comprehensive compensation scheme and that ours in many ways will reflect that scheme. It is important that there be a defined market value and assessment procedure and an arbitrator arrangement if this cannot be settled through what I will call the ordinary market procedure arrangement. I understand that that is also part of the Act. 
There is the question of regularising provisions for warrant for quarantine officers. At present they do not have such powers. They are available to Customs officers but not to quarantine officers. I think there are safeguards in the sense that warrants have to be issued in the normal way and if any prosecution is likely the officers have to be accompanied by a police officer. So really in relation to that matter it is just a question of making the powers of the quarantine officer similar to the powers of the Customs officer. There are limits to what can be done in that regard. Those aspects of the legislation would also be welcomed. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  announced recently that a new leaflet will be provided, I think in 15 languages, giving reasons why we need animal and plant quarantine in this country. These pamphlets will be provided when a person wishing to visit Australia is issued with a visa or entry permit. This particular proposal has been under consideration by the Government for about four or five years now. It has been part of policies and has been mentioned in election statements. I am very pleased that the Minister has been able to bring this to fruition and that he has proposed these changes to the quarantine Act. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
asked the Minister for Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 1 May 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the actual bulk milk carters of Victoria, that is, those who collect the milk from the dairy farms, had no say in the decision made by the leadership of the Transport Workers Union to refuse to collect that milk from 30 March to 2 April 1979 and thus cost the dairy farmers several million dollars in lost income. 
Is it also a fact that these tanker drivers were again excluded from the decision to return to work made in Melbourne on Monday, 2 April 1979. 
If so, what action is the Government taking to protect the rights of individual unionists against these decisions. 
asked the Minister for Post and  Telecommuncations,  upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
When will ethnic television telecasts be extended to Australian Broadcasting Commission regional television stations, particularly in the Shepparton and Bendigo areas, so that migrant communities in northern and north-eastern Victoria and the Goulburn Valley can share in this initiative. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Finance. Is it a fact that, of the 5,961 Commonwealth public servants who retired in 1977-78, 75 per cent received early retirement invalid pensions and that this percentage has increased dramatically in the last four years? If so, what is the Government doing to stop this racket? Will it prosecute or at least warn those doctors who are giving spurious medical certificates? Will it require those pensions already granted for the last five years to be re-examined? If 30 per cent of those invalided out in 1 977-78 were so invalided on the ground of 'mental disorder ', will the Government require tighter standards of mental health for entry into the Commonwealth Public Service? 
-Inflation is the No. 1 fear of the people who live in the Murray electorate. They are mainly self-employed people, such as farmers or independent business people, pensioners and the wage earners who depend on employment in the food processing factories which must remain internationally cost competitive to maintain employment. The Government's record of economic management, although not achieving the performance it would like, has succeeded in reducing Australia's annual increase in the rate of inflation from above the average of our major competitors to below that average, and in spite of a possible 10 per cent inflation rate this year that reduction will continue because countries such as the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and New Zealand are suffering from inflation at the 14 per cent level and above. 
The Government is to be congratulated on being the first Federal Government since Federation to attack tax avoidance genuinely. The Australian Labor Party is now trying to join the Government on this issue, but Labor's record in government proves otherwise. The statements and promises of Labor spokesmen are directed at the natural desire of the people to pay a smaller proportion of their income in tax. Labor should be careful with its statements on reducing this or that level of direct or indirect tax when it is obvious that in so doing there will be insufficient revenue to meet this Government's level of expenditure let alone the alternative government's considerably higher level of expenditure. People should always remember that, leaving aside all this verbiage from the Labor Party, if the Hayden tax scale were operating today the average family would be paying $16 a week more in tax. 
I referred earlier to country people. I do believe that country people generally have some justification for not being completely happy with this Budget. Inflation is their No. 1 problem and fear. As I said earlier, the Government is generally doing better than most countries and far better than Labor in government would be able to do. Farmers should always acknowledge that most of the significant decisions which are made concerning their industries are made outside the Budget context. I refer to the wool reserve price increase; the dairy underwriting increase; the new wheat stabilisation scheme; the canned fruits stabilisation scheme which is to be introduced this session- the first such scheme in the history of the industry; the increased domestic price for sugar earlier this year; and the tremendous advance in rural credit through the Primary Industry Bank of Australia. Farmers and country people generally also should remember that a government which has abolished death duties, improved income averaging and changed to a simple taxation system in respect of pensioners cannot keep on doing these sorts of things. 
Country people generally should remember that apart from the Budget announcements the allocation of funds for country roads has increased considerably; the grants for drainage and salinity projects under the national water resources program are increasing- these would accelerate at a greater rate if the State governments did their homework and were ready to go ahead with the projects; each year the Federal Government's decentralisation program is increasing; and there are the tax sharing arrangements in respect of local government authorities. 
There have been a number of other improvements including the one suggested by the honourable member for Dawson. A policy of the Government which is important for country people is to provide a stable economic and trading situation which means stability against inflation and, where necessary and desirable, the introduction of stabilisation schemes. In rural industries in which there is a reduction in income due to bad weather conditions or international trading arrangements, I believe this Government has had a very good record over the past few years of showing that it is willing to help, for example, with the beef industry, the dairy industry and the fruit industry. Many country people overlook these wider government policy initiatives when they are assessing the effects of the Budget. 
But even if one accepts the points that I have made, I believe there is still cause for genuine criticism in country areas where the cost disadvantage in goods and services is extremely well documented. For example, in the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme allowances, no distinction is made between those students who are forced to live away from home because of distance- that is, those who live in provincial or country centres- and those who choose to live away from home, in other words, metropolitan students. This is grossly unfair to country students and their parents. It adds to the disadvantage which country children already suffer in primary and secondary education, compared with city children, and it makes a mockery of the claim of equal opportunity in education. 
The second area of neglect concerns telephone charges. I acknowledge the progress made by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  and Telecom Australia itself with the introduction of such things as the country line installation policy, off-peak subscriber trunk dialling and trunk calls, business-hour calls to distances up to 85 kilometres and from 1 May next the local call concessions. However, the major cost problem for country people, that of business-hour calls to the nearest capital city, that is, the destination of what we call the critical percentage of STD and trunk calls, still exists. I believe that it is essential that the Government and Telecom should have as their next policy initiative a 20 per cent or 30 per cent reduction in charges for this type of STD or trunk businesshour calls. 
-The honourable member for Mallee has made a good point. But the major complaint of country people is the cost of fuel, and justifiably so. They say that the Government's import parity fuel policy has added a most significant indirect tax to the Government's income armoury which has allowed the Government to reduce the deficit and to hand out some well deserved improvements in the welfare sector. But this tax falls disproportionately on country people. They have no alternative transport arrangements. Much of the fuel is used in producing essential income for the nation from the sale of agricultural products and the development of minerals. They have to travel greater distances to visit the nearest community or to see a medical specialist, for example. They also have the problem of the delivery of essential goods and services to and from seaports and capital cities which increases fuel consumption and adds to their costs. 
At this stage I want to quote from the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  delivered on 21 November 1977. The supplementary statement under the heading Rural', relating to petrol prices and the subsidising of freight costs outside the metropolitan area on motor spirit, aviation fuel, distillate and power kerosene, is as follows: 
The scheme will bring country prices down initially to less than one cent per litre (4 cents per gallon) above city prices and to less than half a cent per litre (2 cents per gallon) in the life of the new Parliament. 
I acknowledge that the Government was quick to introduce the first half of this scheme but I am disappointed that the second stage of the promise for a fuel price of no greater than two cents per gallon above city prices was not redeemed in this Budget. It would, if introduced, assist all country people, whether towns people, farm people, people in business or people in private capacities. Just as importantly, it would indicate to country people that their complaint has been acknowledged by the Government. The completion of this election promise is obviously the first priority in providing some justice for country people. There is also the problem of cost disadvantage that Australian farmers, particularly grain producers, suffer when compared with their major competitors, that is, the United States and Canada. Due to government policybasically, I do not criticise that policy- they pay more for distillate. I believe that at some stage we have to recognise this fact. 
We all have lists of items on which we would like to see government expenditure. Usually we do not bother to balance those lists by indicating how these expenditure items would be financed. I have already mentioned in my list what I consider to be certain basic rural requirements. Others include increased family allowanceseither an increased spouse's allowance or a form of family taxation to assist single income families- reduced excise on low alcohol beer, a fourth year for the aged person's capital grants scheme and a scheme to assist those disadvantaged by the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. When listing these points it would be wrong for me as  chairman  of the Government Members Health and Welfare Committee not to congratulate the responsible Ministers and the Cabinet on such measures as the reintroduction of twiceyearly indexation of pensions, increases in permissible earnings to retain eligibility of pensioner health benefit cards, the extension of the eligibility for pensioner health benefit cards and other fringe benefits to supporting parents, the increased capital allocations for the aged persons and senior citizens' programs, the extension of service pensions to all allied ex-service personnel and the accelerated animal quarantine program. There are many other good points in these and other sectors of ministerial responsibility. 
I make a special plea for several groups of people who are becoming increasingly disadvantaged by the operation of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. These include low income earners with chronic illnesses and single income families with a number of dependent children. All these people have to pay $2.75 for every script. Those people who are classified as disadvantaged pay no fee for medical consultations. 
But, when it comes to filling the prescription resulting from that consultation, they have to pay the patient contribution. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  has acknowledged this weakness in his statement in connection with the Budget. The extension in the Budget of eligibility for pensioner health benefit cards to a great many more people will help. But I believe that the disadvantaged category for medical consultations should be extended to pharmaceutical benefit arrangements also and a special provision should be made for the chronically ill. I support the Budget. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Kerin)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 8 May 1979: 
) Further to his answer to Question No. 36 12  (Hansard,  1 May 1979, page 17 16) on monitoring the Australian wheat crop, is it a fact that the present problem with the money supply and the Reserve Bank advance to the wheat industry could have been alleviated by a more accurate crop forecasting system as he appears to have suggested in his recent speech to the Institute of Chartered Accountants? 
Was the independent monitoring of the Australian wheat crop by a United States of America satellite the reason for the earlier accurate forecasts by the US Department of Agriculture? 
As Australia will not be using Landsat until 1980, will information be obtained from the USDA satellite to more accurately predict the size of the 1 979 Australian crop? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 14 November 1978: 
Are investigations continuing into the exemption from sales tax of certain equipment used by the blind; if so, what is the nature of the investigations and when can a decision be expected. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 27 February1979: 
Is he satisfied that the present numbers of inspectors policing unlicensed CB radio users and users who modify their equipment in such a way that it interferes with legitimate users of radio equipment are adequate. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
1 ) How much time was made available to broadcast election speeches or political advertisements in respect of each political parry on each radio broadcasting station and television station in connection with the 1979 Victorian State election. 
What was the percentage distribution of time purchased by parties and candidates on (a) metropolitan and (b) country commercial (i) broadcasting and (ii) television stations. 
What were the costs charged for this time, and what was the percentage distribution of these costs. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 2 May1979: 
Which State Governments have not implemented packaging recommendations or restrictions agreed to by the National Health and Medical Research Council for weedicides, pesticides, over-the-counter drugs and food, and what are the recommendations or restrictions which have not been implemented. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
1 ) How many farmers registered in each Social Security Regional Office received unemployment benefits during (a) 1978 and the period (b) 1 January to31 May 1979. 
) What was the average period of payment and in which months were the payments concentrated. 
How many farmers, showing the rural industries in which they were engaged, received benefits and what was the average benefit paid to each group. 
What percentage of applicants for benefits were successful. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
What planning is being done for the introduction of a priority liquid fuel distribution system, particularly distillate for agriculture should this become necessary. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 24 May 1979: 
Does the Commonwealth Government, or do State Governments, possess the constitutional power to introduce petrol rationing. 
In the event of a fuel shortage in Australia, will distillate for agricultural use be given a high priority in any rationing or priority distribution system. 
If so, is any work being undertaken on a system which would guarantee adequate supplies of distillate for agriculture. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
How many Community Youth Support Scheme projects have received continuation grants of (a) 26 and (b) 52 weeks in the periods (i) 1 July to 31 December 1978 and (ii) 1 January to 7 June 1979. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 7 June 1 979: 
1 ) What progress is being made with the hospital accreditation program. 
How many private and public hospitals in each State (a) have been visited by the accreditation committee, (b) did not receive automatic accreditation and (c) were still  without  accreditation after (i) 3 and (ii) 6 months delay. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 28 May 1979: 
Further to question No. 3489  (Hansard,  22 May 1979, page 2234), when will the expert advisory committee be established to determine priorities for the use of the Cocos Island quarantine station. 
