Yes, what a sham. A lot of the trouble being experienced in Australia's most populous State is due entirely to the fact that New South Wales had for 24 years a Labor Government that ignored completely the need to initiate a decentralisation policy, allowed congestion of population in Sydney and helped to create one of Australia's biggest social and economic problems today. We are paying a penalty for 24 years of Labor government in the post war reconstruction years when Labor did not attempt in a constructive way to find a solution to the centralisation of growth and population. 
Today we are burdened with the tremendous problem of trying to find a formula for a way out of the urban traffic problem. The Australian Transport Advisory Council has asked the Bureau of Transport Economics to conduct a survey to ascertain the cost of overcoming the metropolitan public urban transport problem. It will cost millions of dollars and involve tremendous environmental and pollution problems. Honourable members should not think for one moment that the Labor Party has had a comprehensive and well thought through decentralisation policy because in New South Wales, my home State, there was no such policy. Since the Liberal and Country Party Government came into office in New South Wales 600 industries have been established in 150 different country centres, some of which may have been small country towns. In the electorate of the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt)  many industries have been assisted by the State Government. Those industries are essentia] because they provide employment and a more diversified economy in the regions concerned. Of that 600, 145 have been metropolitan based industries that have transferred the whole or a considerable segment of their manufacturing operations to country centres. A further 12 have been overseas firms which have been encouraged by the New South Wales Government to go straight to decentralised locations with the assistance of the Department of Decentralisation and Development. 
It has been extremely carefully calculated that as a result of the policy followed by the New South Wales Liberal and Country Party Government approximately 65,000 men, women and children have been retained in New South Wales country areas who otherwise would have had to find job opportunities and housing facilities in metropolitan areas. That illustrates the difference between what the present New South Wales Government has done since 1965 and what the previous Labor Government did in the preceding 24 years. It is one of the tragedies that New South Wales has had to face. I think we need to keep our feet on the ground and keep the political aspects of this problem in correct perspective. Following the election of a Liberal and Country Party Government in New South Wales, that Stale was the first to appoint a Minister for Decentralisation and Development, the honourable John Fuller. What a tremendous step it was in fulfilling a Country Party objective. 
The Commonwealth Government has been responsible for enormous expenditure in Canberra, Australia's largest inland city, as well as in the Northern Territory where there is a population growth rate of between 10 per cent and 11 per cent. Financial assistance in the form of grants has been given to the States for their respective decentralisation programmes, for the establishment of defence installations in decentralised locations such as Salisbury and Townsville, and through the petroleum prices equalisation scheme which was designed to make the price differential for petrol no greater than the equivalent of 4 pence a gallon in any part of Australia. The whole purpose behind that policy was to make it as attractive as possible for operators using petroleum to conduct their business in country areas. 
Financial assistance has been granted for travel by rural workers under certain circumstances; subsidies have been paid to employers taking more than the normal number of apprentices; goods and services have been provided in decentralised areas by the Commonwealth in the areas of cultural and recreational facilities, public health, welfare and housing. That is the range of measures which have been taken to try to overcome the immediate problem, but there is not the slightest doubt that it will require the co-operation of the Commonwealth, States and local governing authorities to overcome the problem in this very important area of decentralisation or comprehensive balanced development. 
In Orange on 20th February this year  Mr Cutler,  the  Deputy  Premier and Leader of the Country Party in New South Wales, said that despite major efforts on the State level in New South Wales it was obvious that a complete and comprehensive programme of decentralisation was beyond State resources. He continued: 
There is a desperate need for a co-ordinated national programme in view of the large sums of money needed and also because of the intense rivalry between States. 
Parochialism has hindered decentralisation throughout Australia's history and consideration may have to be given to the establishment of entirely new decentralised cities as in Great Britain. 
Census statistics for New South Wales released this month show that approximately 69 per cent of the State's population live in the NewcastleSydneyWollongong complex. 
I think that the Australian people living in the cities of Sydney and Melbourne have realised that if Australia continues to develop along the lines on --which it has developed a serious social and economic problem will face their children in the years that lie ahead. I think that the time is ripe for governments - Commonwealth, State and local - to join hands to overcome what is a very serious problem regarding decentralisation. I have no opposition whatsoever to the concept of adopting a joint approach to this question, but I do object very strongly to the Commonwealth Government pushing itself over the top of the sovereign rights of the States. If the Australian people want balanced development in both city and country areas they must overcome their present parochial attitudes and look for national solutions to this problem. In this the Commonwealth will always be willing to co-operate, but it must be done on a CommonwealthStatelocal government basis. 

 - Mr President, I represent the Liberal Movement in this place as its Leader. There was no trouble at the meeting of my Party in electing me as its leader. I wish to inform the Senate that the Liberal Movement has a State representation of three and an intended representation of the whole nation. 
I have pleasure in taking my place here among the 15 newcomers to the Senate. As you indicated,  Mr President,  in no way can I claim to be a parliamentary maiden. For that reason I do not look for any protection at this time. In fact, I could feel constrained by the remarks made by  Senator Greenwood  about the  speaker  who preceded him so I invite any honourable senator to interrupt me if he wishes, so far as the Standing Orders allow. I find it very ironical to be here in the upper House of the Australian Parliament having come out of a party which has gone through the procedure of self-destruction under the influence of its members in the upper House of the South Australian Parliament. I have seen there, as have most South Australians, the activities of legislative councillors who have dragged down the reputation of the South Australian upper House to such a degree that a good number of South Australians believe that it has lost its political usefulness. Therefore, as I have said, it is somewhat ironic that I, having been involved in the particular spin-off of that political infighting, have been elected to an upper House. I am here as the representative of a Party which is expanding. I look forward to being joined in 2 years' time by a colleague from the Liberal Movement. In South Australia there will be a dramatic expansion of that Party. My being joined by a colleague will mean a diminution in the number of Liberal Country League senators who now number four. 
I am somewhat amazed at the tone of the debate in the Senate so far by honourable senators who were previously members of this chamber and who have been returned. I congratulate those honourable senators who have spoken for the first time. I think that there have been some admirable speeches which have shown good promise of first-rate debating in future. But I am amazed that members of the Opposition do not seem to understand that they lost an election. I thought that  Senator Greenwood  quite clearly demonstrated in the first part of his speech his inability to grasp that fact. Before I proceed with any further reference to that subject I wish to say that I have a long history of opposing the Australian Labor Party. I was somewhat shocked this morning to find that, after working very hard to get away from  Mr Dunstan  in South Australia, he was sitting here during the welcome to  His Excellency  the Governor-General. I was pleased to find that his presence in this place was only a temporary one. 
I am an anti-Labor politician. My involvement in State politics was of such a nature that I do not have to do very much to prove that point, but I believe that my interpretation of an effective anti-Labor stance may be somewhat different from the interpretation of some other senators who sit on your left,  Sir. I  see Labor as being quite different from the Liberal cause that I represent. However, I fear that too many people who call themselves Liberals have lost any idea of what they stand for, and they have no central core of ideology. If they continue to take the view that the Australian people did not really vote for Labor at the last Federal election, they will continue to be disillusioned in future and they will never develop the ideological core and reason for existence which they need and which we on this side of the Senate need. 
I see the Labor Party as reacting traditionally, as it did in 1972 when it came to office, with all the enthusiasm which was built up during the long years in Opposition. We saw the same thing in South Australia in 1965 when the Walsh Government was elected. It let loose with social changes and it introduced very high spending Budgets in its first years of office. South Australia got into very great economic difficulties under Labor's careless management of South Australia's development. I believe that the same thing has occurred on the national scene. Labor, in its first enthusiasm, has obviously been over expansive in relation to the things it wanted to do, and it has pressed its programs too hard for the community to absorb them. Some of our inflationary worries and concerns today can be laid quite effectively at the door of Labor's early expansionary plans. Labor in office will reward its supporters. I suppose that the business of politics obviously is to make sure that those people who put you there get a fair deal. By Labor standards, that fair deal often goes over the central point. It will destroy the incentives in this community, as we have seen happen in States in which Labor is in government and as we see now in the Federal sphere. It will control always rather than encourage. Today it does things without giving the Australian community the direction that it is so urgently seeking. Because it is a creature of the trade union movement it cannot argue with those who dictate trade union policy. 
It destroys individual freedoms and many international alliances upon which Australia has depended in the past and must depend in the future. 
One can go through, in a general sense, many areas of Labor policy which 1 am sure that people on your left,  Sir, would  oppose and which I oppose. But I return to this basis: Why cannot the non-Labor forces in Australia which are centred on the Federal Parliament understand that they were defeated? I have done some research as to the reasons for the election, and I find the contest quite clearly outlined in statements by spokesmen for the Opposition Parties. The Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Snedden,  said: 
Now is the time to put it to the choice of the Australian people . . . The people of Australia did not give a mandate to this Government to change the whole nature of the Australian democracy. If that is to happen, it can happen only by the freely expressed will of the Australian people. The only way to determine that is by an election for the government of Australia. 

 Mr Anthony, the Leader of the Australian Country Party, said of this Government: 
It's exceeded its mandate and I believe the Australian people have a right to re-assess their point of view and to affirm or reject the Government that it put into office 18 months ago. 
The Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  moved an amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Appropriation Bill (No. 4) 1 973-74. Certain words were to be added at the end of the motion. They began:  but not before the Government agrees to submit itself to the judgment of the people . . . 
The amendment amplified that statement to some degree which is not worth repeating. The emphasis is quite clear. So the Opposition forced on the nation an election which should never have been forced, not only because the reasons for forcing it were not good reasons but because it was not in the Opposition's interests to have an election. That statement is not hindsight on my part. In the policy speech which I gave before the election I said that it was the wrong election at the wrong time. I feel somewhat resentful, because I am a good Liberal, that the people who caused this election are now responsible for the power that the Labor Government has. It is all very well for  Senator Withers  or  Senator Greenwood  to blame the Government. They gave the Government the power it has. I wondered why, for so long after the election, these people who have given the socialist Government of Australia the power to socialise, as we will obviously find out at the joint sitting, continue to blame the Government. As a Liberal, I believe that they lost me my political shirt because of what they did, and they did the same for other Liberals in the community. 
I would have expected a different tone in the debate, but listening to it so far it would appear that we are to have another election in one month's time because the Opposition, in denigrating the Government- I can lend a hand in doing that when I get going in this place- has given only a recital of the problems. There has not been one substantive suggestion yet from the long term senators as to how the ills of the Australian economy are to be remedied. Their speeches are reminiscent of the futile Liberal election campaign which started with a promise that interest rates would be reduced and which ended with an admission that they might rise. Are we to continue with this ineffective sort of Opposition? Are we going to have a repeat of the situation where the Opposition does not know what policy it wants? I suggest that the Opposition had better have another look at the Government and consider that it might be in office for 3 years. If the ills of this community are as great as they are supposed to be would it not be better to get together and form some sort of consensus on the economic management of the community? The first way in which to do that is to suggest what the remedies ought to be and how they may be put into effect. As I have said, I am disappointed to find that the Opposition has no more idea than it says the Government has of what to do. We have an election situation as regards the promises and assessments of our needs in which the Opposition is doing no more than simply criticising the Government. 
I come to the amendment which has been moved by the Leader of the Opposition. It outlines exactly what I have been saying. It states that the Government is unable to handle the economic problems that confront Australia. That could well be. I should think that it would be in the midst of some very vital decisions at the moment. It could well be that the States of Australia are well ahead of honourable senators in their approach to the Commonwealth Government. I hope that they are. If the Premiers of the States are suggesting some really effective attack on the problems of inflation and if they are doing so from a bi-partisan electoral base or government base it will be useful for Australia. I agree- I suppose some other honourable senators also agree- with what has been said about the Labor Government's performance in handling the economic measures of this community. I am not impressed with it. But on looking through the whole of this amendment it seems to me to be simply a recital of the problems which everyone admits are before us. It offers nothing as to their solution. I for one am not going to support the amendment because I do not think that it belongs where it is. It is not definitive and it does not do a thing for the Opposition itself. It certainly will not force the Government to do anything. Even if it were accepted by this chamber I doubt whether the newspapers would know that it had been accepted. That is not effective opposition. It is pure nonsense. Unless the Opposition can spearhead its attempts to reduce the standing of the Government it will remain on its present side of the House. 
I have little more to say. I simply want to establish my position in this chamber as an antiLabor senator and a Liberal senator. I do so on the basis of a Party which is expanding in South Australia and I do so on the basis that I expect to hear far more penetrating opposition than I have heard so far. 
Debate interrupted. 
Members of the public looking in on this debate would be excused if they thought that the Opposition was frightened of them. This situation is pretty typical of the situation which I have observed in South Australia for some years. It could be that the Liberal Party's attitude has been fashioned somewhat by a remark which the Leader of the Opposition in another place,  Mr Snedden,  made when he said that he had consulted all his various State organisations within the Liberal Party to get their advice about electoral reform. If he consulted South Australia he certainly was contaminated by it. This debate is one which I could almost believe is taking place in the Legislative Council in South Australia. The same attitudes are being adopted to electoral reform. We have the continual argument about the system of resisting change within the system which clouds, of course, the greater argument of the merits of the parties which fill out and flesh out the electoral framework. For that reason I intend to support the Bill. 
I would have thought that the Senate would pass this Bill. I listened to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  say that he has opposed this legislation twice previously, that he will oppose it again on this occasion, that he will oppose it at a joint sitting and that he will keep on opposing it. That he should take that viewpoint raises very interesting questions about the Australian Constitution. But at the outset I indicate that it is a fruitless argument to keep on resisting fairness in the electoral system, and it is not good enough to impute motives which are less than fair to those who introduce the legislation as a reason for voting against it. 
I fully believe that the Labor Party would take every advantage it could in the electoral system because I come from a State in which in the past the Labor Party has tried to do this. However, in that State for many years it was completely outwitted by the Liberal-Country League, which was better at it. When the Labor Party came to office in 1965 it was faced with a situation in which there were 10 times as many voters in one electorate than there were in another; there were 5,000 electors in one and 50,000 electors in another. Despite that system, and under it, the Labor Party tried to implement its own type of gerrymander, but it did not get the proposal through the Legislative Council at that time, and I am pleased that it did not do so because the system which evolved in South Australia was much fairer than the one which existed for a long period under the Playford administration and it was certainly fairer than the one which the Labor Party, under the Walsh administration, tried to implement in 1965. The very fact that honourable senators on this side of the chamber might reasonably view with concern what the Labor Party might do with the electoral system if it were fully in charge of it does not take away the responsibility of Opposition senators to vote for a fair system, and I am very disappointed indeed to hear - 

 - Senator Jessop said recently that my Party had no policies. I will present him with our electoral policy as well as with other policies in order to fill the vacuum in his political knowledge, although I doubt that anyone could fill that vacuum. The situation that speakers so far from this side of the chamber have not understood is that Labor has the authority to pass this Bill. That authority was expressly given to it by the Austraiian people. 
-To the interjectors on my right I indicate, as I indicated in a previous debate, that their leaders issued a challenge and said that they wanted these matters tested. The test has been given, and it is of little use for the Leader of the Opposition to say that he will keep on knocking the legislation back, as his vote here is only symbolic in that way in any case. I refer now to the policy speech which I gave - 
I am sure that  Senator Jessop  has not heard of it. He does not see anything but a little narrow path ahead of him which leads to the Liberal-Country League. He can see little more than that. As I said earlier, obviously his attitude on this issue has already contaminated his views on other matters. In the policy speech which I gave in the Unley Town Hall on 1 May 1974 I said: 
We are not at all sure this is the right election at the right time for Australia. 
It could be that politicians in Canberra, out of touch with their electorates have misread the popular mood. If the LCP coalition wins, the gamble of using the Senate to force an election will have paid off. 
If it fails, however, the result will be catastrophic for the non-Labor cause. 
As I have said, the Labor Party won the election and it has the authority to proceed with this Bill. On other occasions people have spoken about obstructive attitudes of the Senate, and I believe that this relates quite clearly to the passage of this Bill. I should like to quote from an article by L. F. Crisp titled 'Australian National GovernmentParliament: The Senate' in which the following statement is attributed to the then  Senator J.  G. Gorton, who was later Prime Minister of Australia:   . . 'the problem of preventing the Senate from inhibiting and frustrating government can be solved' by 2 constitutional changes: 'Fust, deprive the Senate of the power to reject Supply, for if it is to defeat a Government it should do so on a specific measure, not on general grounds of dislike. Second, if the Senate does defeat a Government on a specific measure, then instead of a double dissolution, the Senate alone should go to the people . . . This would prevent an Opposition with a majority in the Senate from using that majority capriciously, because no party would jeopardise such an advantage except on a matter of fundamental importance.' 

 Sir Robert Menzies has had quite a lot to say about obstruction by the Senate. He does not support the view that the Senate can continue to frustrate the will of the people beyond an election expressly held for the purpose of resolving the previous negative views of the Senate. In 1959 the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review also dealt with this question and made recommendations which were designed to alter the Constitution in order to overcome the type of attitude which is now prevalent in this chamber. It appears that Opposition senators are still intent on frustrating the people's view. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  has made statements on this Bill in another place. He has spoken authoritatively for the Opposition. He said: 
. 'One vote one value'. I do not reject that concept 
He then went on to cite some problems concerning country areas in Australia. He then said: 
Our purpose is to maintain, as far as is practicable and fair, the principle of one vote one value. 
I assume that that is what this Bill is about, one vote one value; to bring in an electoral system which will as near as practicable give an equal say to all electors, whether they are in the country or the city, in the conduct of the affairs of their country which personally affect them. The Leader of the Opposition then said: 
The potential movement of population is fundamental to the proper establishment of electorates. 
He then developed the argument that a 10 per cent variation is not sufficient properly to anticipate movements in population between redistributions. That is the only argument that I have been able to read, or certainly have heard advanced in this place, which has been in any way a form of coherent opposition to this Bill. I have heard of no other argument on any ethical, moral or practical grounds, except that a margin of 20 per cent may not allow a sufficient difference between electorates between redistributions, without electorates getting too far out of phase. Whether that statement is correct or not is another matter, but it is the only legitimate argument that I have heard which stands up to any test on ethical or moral grounds.  Mr Anthony  made statements which were very much in accord with, and I believe echoed, the statements which were made by  Senator Drake-Brockman  on behalf of the Country Party today. He quoted a statement made by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  who introduced this Bill in another place. The Minister said: 
There can be no doubt whatever that a man is entitled to equal representation whether he lives in the city or the country. 

 Mr Anthony said: 
The Country Party agrees with that. 
Of course, the general public in reading that statement would believe that the Leader of the Country Party was quite in accord with the proposition that all electors should have an equality of say in their national affairs. But when one reads further in  Mr Anthony's  speech one finds an adventure in semantics. One finds that  Mr Anthony's  reference to equal representation does not mean an equal say in relation to the value of a vote; it is apparently some equal voice. It does not refer to equal representation in a division of electors.  Mr Anthony  then went on to say: 
But is it the mathematical value of a person's vote that should be the be all and end all or is it the value of representation he is able to receive in this Parliament? Equality of representation should be seen to be far more important than mere mathematical equality of votes. 
So the Leader of the Country Party does not see equality of representation as a mathematical division of voters. It is something quite different, something which has never even begun to be adequately explained- to the public or to any Parliament. It is nonsense and has no meaning other than that the Country Party believes quite openly, when the matter is looked at, in a very severe weighting for country areas.  Mr Anthony  went on to say that the present 20 per cent tolerance is not great enough to give the equality that he desires. That is the substance of his remarks to the Parliament. 
The South Australian situation ought to teach anyone in Australia the problems of a party which relies on an unequal distribution and on the weighting of electorates. In that State the Liberal-Country League rested on unequal boundaries for very many years. I remember that in 1963 when the situation had got to something like 8 to 1 in relative values the Party met and decided to reform. I remember saying to the Party in those days, as a fairly green country member, that I could not support anything greater than 2 to 1 in weighting for the country. I was obliterated in the Party room for that suggestion. Dare I suggest that we go as far as giving the city half the value of the country. So a scheme was put up to provide for something like 3 to 1. The Labor Party rejected the scheme because is was able to deny a constitutional majority in the South Australian House of Assembly at that time. Eventually, in 1969-70, a scheme was brought in which gave a weighting of 10 to 16, which was as far as the Liberal-Country League could go without blowing up at that time. The Labor Party accepted it because it was such a great advance over 10 and 1 1 to 1. Of course, the LCL did blow up a few years later over that very same thing translated into the franchise of the Legislative Council. 
-It blew up and it is still blowing up. The pieces are still flying. Anyone should understand from that argument how fruitless it has been for that Party to rely for so long on keeping everything to itself. It now has lost everything, and to such a degree that there is no opposition in South Australia. The junior senator from South Australia,  Senator Jessop,  who is interjecting, was lucky to hold his position. He knows that but for the Liberal Movement there would have been 6 Labor Party senators representing South Australia, so weak are the fragments of the Party to which he still adheres. The situation in South Australia has been that of a Party under siege. I relate that siege philosophy to what I have heard put today. Thank goodness,  Mr Deputy President,  that it is not an argument about the divergencies which I have seen in past political history. We are talking about a fairly small thing, namely, whether the variation shall be 20 per cent or 10 per cent. Certainly no-one can argue that 10 per cent is less fair than is 20 per cent. One can argue the merits of being able to apportion districts, and the convenience of so apportioning them, but even  Senator Jessop  could not argue that a 10 per cent variation is less fair than 20 per cent. Nor could he agree with the quite fatuous statement of his Leader that it is dishonest. I leave it to the public to decide, if the Leader of his Party says that it is dishonest to bring in 10 per cent, just who is being dishonest and who is twisting the English language to make nonsense of ordinary words and ordinary meanings? So much has this embittered  Senator Jessop  's Party that on Friday morning a member of his Party in the House of Representatives,  Dr Forbes,  appeared on television in our State and made quite a lot of inaccurate statements. He said that I gave the South Australian Government to  Mr Dunstan  18 months ahead of its time. 
-Senator Jessop says that it was 16 months. He does not realise that the limit was 1 1 months. So accurate are the members of the LCL in South Australia that he forgets that 1 1 months was all that was possible. He forgets also that  Dr Forbes  always has supported the conservatives in South Australia, and always will, and simply is not acceptable to the metropolitan community. It is the attitude of continuing to vilify anyone who wants reform which has brought South Australia to such a low respect politically on the non-Labor side around Australia.  Dr Forbes,  incidentally, is a shadow Minister who is supposed to attract the people of this country. What this attitude does, of course, is to undersell the country people in Australia. I have never heard a greater insult to country people than to suggest that for some disability they need special provisions in the Electoral Act. That is the greatest disservice that political parties can do to country people. The country people who believe this do so only because they have been misled for so long by so-called Liberals or by Country Party members. 
I have a very recent experience of within 2 years educating a conservative country electorate in a State sphere to accept a policy of one vote one value, and to vote vehemently for it.  Senator Jessop  's Party was obliterated in that particular electorate. You get the attitude of always blaming someone else, always looking for a scapegoat but never at yourself. Not since 1933 has the honourable senator's Party ever honestly assessed itself as a Party. So it continues selling to the community this criticism of any Party and any politician which says that country people should be equal with city people in electoral weighting. I am pleased to say that at least in South Australia there is one country district which vehemently has adopted a fair electoral policy. I suggest that the countryside in the rest of Australia would also adopt a fair electoral policy if it were properly explained. To set country people aside as being different and as being unable to fully participate in the electoral scene is to do them an enormous disservice. 
I refer honourable senators to the notice paper of this House and the various subjects included in it. On it is the Health Insurance Bill and the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill. There is a proposal relating to the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. Another proposal is for the States to be provided with adequate and assured sources of revenue. Another subject relates to the Government's inability to properly and responsibly manage the economy. Another refers to the development of new inland cities with large populations. Another deals with migrants and the Croatian community. The Senate also is to deal with motions relating to a system of imposed regionalism and discrimination against rural industries, Aborigines, rural policy, grants to the States, and so on. Why should any person in Australia have a bigger say than anyone else on any one of those subjects? It is utter absurdity to say that any person geographically placed anywhere in Australia should speak with a louder voice than does another person. The entire scope of the business of this House relates to Australia as a whole. It is divisive and fostering class warfare in this community to say that anyone is at a disability and should have a bigger electoral weighting than another person. 
On that basis I will support this Bill. I say quite clearly that if the resulting redrawing of boundaries is unfair I will vote against that redrawing. I believe that any honourable senator would reserve that right. I would expect the Distribution Commissioners to be fair and just and without favour in redrawing boundaries. As I have said, if they are recognisably not so the Government can expect not to achieve the results which it desires from this Bill. I listen to the mutterings of South Australian senators. They should hang their heads in shame because of the system for which they have stood for so many years and because of the attitudes of their Legislative Councillors in South Australia whom they no doubt will support. They should hang their heads in shame when any electoral reform is mentioned in the Senate. 
The Senate should pass this Bill. I do not want to encroach on other Bills. Obviously new senators will want to express their opinions. I certainly do. I do not want to be bound by decisions taken when I was not a senator. So I will vote on other Bills as I see fit. I believe in the general principle that the Senate should recognise the authority of the Government and the view of prominent and expert members of the nonLabor side of politics who for many years have said that the Senate should not obstruct, beyond being a general House of review, but that matters should be decided by the Australian public. It is certainly my view that the Senate should not be obstructive for obstruction's sake. I refer again to the statement by  Dr Forbes  in South Australia on Friday morning that if we, the Independents, vote with the Opposition the Senate can continue to frustrate the Government's program. I have never heard more clearly expressed the negativism of some of my ex-colleagues from South Australia. I support the Bill. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, I support the Senate (Representation of Territories) Bill 1973 and I oppose the amendment because I believe that the intentions contained in the Bill are quite reasonable and justifiable. 1 support it,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  despite the reasoning that you gave the Senate and despite the policies of your Party. I find it very paradoxical that a Labor party is increasing the numbers in the upper House. It seems to me that in all the contacts that I have had with Labor Party policy, it has always been the intention of the Labor Party to do away with the second chamber. Despite the scars that I bear politically from the effects of a second chamber in another State, I am still a supporter of the 2-house system of Parliament. For that reason I see no logic in opposing the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory having representation in the Senate. 
If one were to take the view that the Opposition generally takes that this chamber is a second seat of government, there may be some reason for showing concern at disturbing the type of election of members to a second seat of government. But this is not so and this House is not so constituted. This is a House of review and, of course, theoretically a States' House. I say theoretically' because any person who has spent any time observing the conduct of the Senate, the business before it and the attitude of honourable senators, knows, that it is very seldom a States' House. It is a deeply and sharply divided political place. 
-For the benefit of  Senator Wood  I will read a letter that his Leader had published in today's 'Australian' newspaper. If  Senator Wood  has not read it, I think he had better read it to see what he is committed to - 
I am rather interested, and I am sure that  Senator Withers,  the Leader of the Opposition, will be interested in  Senator Wood  's rebellious remarks. I will read only an excerpt from this letter because I am sure that the Senate would not want to be tired by my reading in full this rather lengthy letter: 
If any honourable senators have not read it, I advise them to do so.  Senator Withers  said: 
No one then took exception to Opposition senators taking a stand on matters about which they or their party had strong convictions. They were, after all, representing their electors. Opposition senators today, in the same way, are representing their electors. 
They are also part of the total Liberal Parliamentary Party. They are bound by decisions and policies made by that total party, and have the right and indeed the duty to try to see those decisions and policies are carried out. 
I bring that letter to the notice of the Senate for the benefit of honourable senators and especially for the benefit of the junior senator from South Australia,  Senator Jessop,  who has left the Senate chamber. In words as current as this morning the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  who leads the Liberal Party in this place, has claimed absolute loyalty from all his members whom he says are bound. From my memory of a study of the Labor Party document relating to these matters- I must admit I do not frequently study it, happily- I seem to remember the Labor Party using the same word. 'Bound', as I now understand it, is a term common to the Labor Party and the Liberal Party in relation to the loyalty which is demanded from their members. If  Senator Wood  repudiates his Leader's statement, perhaps debates in the Senate could be more interesting in the future. I have little to add. I believe that the tactic of referring this Bill to a Select Committee on its third introduction to this House is obviously a delaying one. Why does the mover of the motion not say so? Three-quarters of the members of this chamber are experienced senators and certainly would know exactly the purpose of the move. The rest of us, who are not so experienced in the ways of the Senate, certainly suspect it. I suggest that if honourable senators wish to defeat the Bill they should vote to do so. They should not try to hide their motives in a very high minded approach to a future and, I am sure, rather lengthy study of the provisions of the Bill. 
Surely the Liberal Party is very confused about electoral matters. It appears to me that it is knowingly going to try to delay the Bill and then oppose it. The Bill will go through a joint sitting. I suggest that whatever test is made of it in the future, it will become a law of this country. The Opposition side of the Senate- apparently twenty-nine thirtieths of the members of this chamber- after opposing the Bill on the 3 occasions that a vote has been taken on it and using a delaying tactic will put up candidates and go to those very people whom they said they did not want to have representation in this House and ask the people to trust them with that representation. All I can say is that those people who adopt this dual attitude are so confused and lost politically that they should, I suggest, at least accept reality in this case and stop trying to confuse the situation by delay. I support the Bill and oppose the amendment. 
I rise somewhat bemused. For the first time in my short few days in this House I seem to be in spirit on side with the major numbers of the Opposition. It makes me look again at my stance to see if I am correct. I am in agreement in opposing these Bills. Together with a lot of others in this House I listened with a great deal of admiration to the speech of  Senator Baume  just before the suspension of the sitting for dinner. I thought it was a magnificent exposition from a man who really knew his subject. It was extremely enlightening to the House because he was able to put the essentials so clearly. I think everyone would have been very impressed with his factual assessment of how the output of the medical services which are needed by Australians in fact will be lowered and diminished by the operation of this proposed scheme. 
However, while so many Opposition senators decry these measures and find so much fault with them, I again remind them that it was their action in forcing a double dissolution which gave the Labor Government the power to proceed. The opposition that Opposition members now give to these Bills should cause them to think about their actions because it is they who have given the Government such a strong position. Therefore, as we symbolically discuss these Bills in this House-I say symbolically because there is no real weight in the vote which will be takenthose honourable senators who caused that conflict might reflect on what they have done. They will not receive the thanks of the medical profession for what is about to occur. 
If there is one sad thing about these measures it is the great dissatisfaction that they have raised among the medical profession with the Government. This should not be. At least there should be enough common ground to provide medical services for Australians for any government to confer with the medical profession and come out with some reasonable and mutually agreed course. Pursuing that line, in my early investigations of what this matter was all about I was told by representatives of the Australian Medical Association that the Association had approached the previous Liberal-Country Party Government approximately 18 months before it was defeated with quite significant proposals to amend the voluntary health scheme. The Government of the day thought so much of the Association's proposals that it did not even reply to them. As I have gleaned from the AMA, one of the reasons why the Labor Party is able more convincingly to proceed with this legislation with the Australian public is because of the neglect of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government in ignoring the AMA which wished to improve the scheme as it then was. 
It is true that the Labor Party's plans are to nationalise the medical and health services of Australia. I noticed that  Senator Button  said that this scheme was not perfect. I wonder why it is not perfect in his view as it is his Government which is introducing it. I guess from looking at his Party's platform in regard to health services that it does not go far enough. I take it that it is an initial step. Last year, in investigating these schemes, I looked for one of the sources of my information to the Labor Party's platform and in an article I wrote on this matter I listed three of the significant points that I found. I would like to read them to the Senate. I do not want to weary honourable senators but I do not think that anyone has dealt with this aspect. The second point in the Labor Party's platform is headed 'General Practitioner Service' and it states: 
The provision of general practitioner medical services staffed by salaried medical practitioners willing to join and available without charge and without means test to persons who choose to use such services. 
We have seen this in operation because it has been instituted. The fifth point relates to hospitalisation and states: 
A national hospital service, including hospitalisation without charge and without means test, in public wards of public hospitals and appropriate financial provision in approved private beds. 
The eighteenth point is headed 'Registration' and I think it is the most undesirable of all the points in the Labor Party's platform. It states: 
The Australian Government to approach the States and the appropriate professional bodies to achieve national recognition of qualifications, registration and uniform discipline for general medical practitioners, medical specialists and other qualified personnel. 
I emphasise the words 'uniform discipline'. When we examine even these few points in the Labor Party's platform we can see why  Senator Button  is not quite satisfied with what we have before us because it does not exactly fulfil the final pronouncement of Labor Party policy. I also listened last year to  Dr Deeble  in Millicent in the southern part of South Australia when he tried to explain the general import of Labor's plans to a gathering of country hospital administrators. The big thing that I came away with after listening at that meeting is that he did not have the answers to most of the questions posed to him. He did make one thing quite clear and that was that there would be no room for private hospitals under Labor's plans. As much as Labor spokesmen might say that there is a provision for private insurance for these particular hospitals, it will not work. There will not be enough people, certainly in the initial stages of this plan, to provide sufficient patients for the great private hospitals of South Australia owing to the high personal cost to patients. In my State we are very proud of these hospitals. The general consensus among people involved with them is that at a certain time in future they will come to the Government and say: 'Take us over'. They will have no alternative. Following that meeting I was extremely alarmed that no one could really see a future for these private institutions, despite what Labor spokesmen may say. 
I think it goes without saying that honourable senators on this side of the chamber would adopt the general Liberal view that a government's hand in all things is to support, where possible, a fair private operation and to support it on behalf of the whole community In this way, the same standard of government approach would apply to medical and health services. It is quite evidence that many of our services today are provided, as  Senator Baume  pointed out, by extremely hard working medical practitioners who do not know what a 40-hour week is. Many of them do very well financially. They deserve to. But if they are put on a salary, will they work their 80 hours a week? We know they will not. So  Senator Baume  's point about reduced medical output will soon become evident. 
I have many friends in the medical profession. Some of them have told me that they have no desire to continue in private practice under Labor's scheme. They would far sooner be in a salaried position and out of the bureaucracy to which  Senator Carrick,  I think, referred. One of the major problems confronting the Government is certainly this factor of diminished output. It alarms me considerably. On inquiry, I found that at the Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Adelaide people who receive free medical services under the present scheme have been waiting for 2 years for non-urgent but necessary surgery. If there is to be a reduced output in the medical field, how much longer must they wait? A different bureaucracy will not produce the services which they need. The point was extremely well made by a previous  speaker  who said that today Australia, because of the voluntary aspect of its medical and health services, attracts from overseas a considerable number of medical officers. If we adopt what amounts to a nationalised scheme, that supply of medical people will dry up. So the necessary practising members of the profession would not be available for Australians. 
There are one or two aspects of the Liberal plan with which I do not agree. I certainly do not agree with the Liberal proposal that people can opt out of a future medical scheme. I believe that everyone should be covered. There should be universal coverage. I believe that the coverage should be as universal as the third party coverage in relation to motor cars. 
I would have compulsory coverage, yes. I am not here to pontificate as to how that would be arranged. I would fit it into the voluntary scheme as to choice and associated details. Over the years I have dealt with a number of people who have had problems which may have arisen over medical and health services. I have spoken to many people who have not been covered by medical funds and who have had a humiliating experience. They received treatment. At least we are civilised enough not to deny them the treatment that they require, but it is very humiliating for them and they should not be humiliated. Whatever the number- whether it is 400,000 or one million people- who are not covered by the present service, that situation should not be. Not one person in Australia should be humiliated because he had to ask for something for which he has not made some provision when he should have. I do not agree with the opting out aspect of Liberal policy. 
There are ways to improve the present scheme. The previous Government should have taken advice from the Australian Medical Association. It should have talked to the Association and evolved a proper approach to that very important problem in the present scheme. I do not intend to say much more. My speech has been a simple statement of where I stand on this issue. I believe that this subject was one of the main subjects at the election. I agree with  Senator Baume  that new members have a duty to express their opinions. It would be wrong not to express an opinion if one had not spoken on this matter previously in the Senate. I believe that the same reasons- they are very sobering reasons- which led to the double dissolution apply fairly heavily to this Bill also. I again say to those who so violently object, as I do to Labor's ultimate plans, that, as they were senators in the previous Parliament and were the cause of the double dissolution, they can reflect for a long time in future, as they commiserate with the Australian Medical Association, on how they gave a socialist government the power to do that which they did not want it to do. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, I ask for leave to give notice of motions for the disapproval of the determinations of the Remuneration Tribunal tabled in the Senate this day. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Devitt)-  Is leave granted? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Leave is not granted. 
I express my sympathies to those honourable senators who have been rather forcefully brought into the Senate chamber by the ringing of the bells to hear my speech, which will not be very notable, on the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill. I am disappointed that the Government should move with such dramatic force as it is moving in relation to this Bill without explaining to the Parliament and the people just what its policies are and what its intentions are in relation to the powers that this Bill will confer on it. It would be much more satisfactory if we were informed just how far the Government was going to proceed with this legislation. For that reason I find myself in the position of having to vote against the Bill with which I have a great deal of sympathy. 
-Senator Webster may call me a socialist. Anyone who moves from any of the previously well defined lines of about 1910 set by some honourable senators is called a socialist. If  Senator Webster  cares to join the brigade of the last century, that is his business. As I said, I have a great deal of sympathy with the stated intentions of the Government in regard to this Bill. What makes me worry are the unstated intentions and the great lack of explanation. I will also vote against the amendment moved by the Opposition. I have little sympathy for the delaying tactics involved in that move. If there is some dissension as to whether the Bill is constitutional, I hope that the High Court will fix up that dispute. I do not want to see any decisions delayed here by reference to any other committee. Therefore I will vote against the amendment. I find myself in a double negative situation. 
-The junior senator from South Australia is at it again. At least he provides some little back-drop which he does not often provide in his own right on his feet. The Government should understand, and I do not doubt that it does, that the successful oil search in Australia was begun some few years ago and maintained in the face of non-discovery and public disbelief that there was oil in Australia by a very notable South Austraiian company named Santos. Santos can really take credit for sustaining the oil search in this nation at a time when it was unpopular to proceed with it. I believe a great deal of credit is owed by all Australians to that company which fought against very large odds at that particular time after the last war. It was therefore private enterprise which developed and found Australian oil resources. As I have said, the Government in its moves into an all-embracing governmental power over the mining interests should understand that the dynamics of the free enterprise system are behind the mineral wealth of Australia and particularly behind the oil wealth which Australia has enjoyed recently at a time of very great disruption on the world oil markets. 
It is true that all the minerals in Australia belong to the Australian people until by arrangement they are discovered in partnership in one form or another. The Government has always been a partner in the discovery and exploitation of the mineral wealth of this country and has shared by way of royalties such wealth as has been found by various entrepreneurs in Australia. It is true that too much of Australia's mineral wealth is in the hands of overseas direction and ownership. There is not the slightest doubt among most Australians that the Australian Government should have a coherent policy at least to safeguard scarce mineral resources for the use of Australians and that those resources should not be allowed to be exported willy-nilly by entrepreneurial companies for the use of citizens in some other part of the world and for their profit. There is a need for a coherent minerals and energy policy which safeguards the very limited and finite resources of this country, particularly in petroleum. I too share the regret of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  that previous governments sold the resources of the Commonwealth Oil Refineries to interests outside Australia. I would much prefer to have seen those resources sold to Australian partners. 
The explanation that the Government gives regarding the operation of its plans under this Bill, so far as it goes, seems to place very heavy emphasis on Government participation in ownership. 1 cannot see the necessity of the extent to which the Government emphasises this. It seems to me that it is the Government's job to fix the rules of this industry and to encourage private operators to interest themselves economically in it and to invest in it on behalf of Australians. I do not think that we should bring into this area as a matter of ideological approach Government participation in the operating areas of the mineral industry, because there is no doubt that what the Government does it will do less efficiently than private industry. From our observations of how industries work in the community we do not have to go far to prove that. It would seem to be just common sense to encourage, on behalf of all Australians, the development of this mineral industry by private companies and private entrepreneurs, operating under quite strict Government direction and rules. 
One must look quite deeply at the future development of the Australian Labor Party's ideology before one confers the powers defined here. If one looks at Great Britain one sees all sorts of apparent excesses which are forecast in the name of the British Labor Government in relation to the very types of operations that we talk about in this BUI. It does nothing for the development of the United Kingdom or for the confidence of some of its industries in their future to be threatened with what appears to be complete nationalisation. We would not expect this to occur here in the next several years under this Labor Government, perhaps, but we have not the slightest guarantee that it Will not occur as soon as political conditions allow a Labor government to proceed. So anyone who believes in private enterprise gets no confidence from the Minister's explanation of the Government's intention. 
In the ministerial statement on the Federal petroleum search policy which he made on 12 April 1 973, the Minister referred to many aspects of that policy. Having read that statement I found one part which is reasonably specific. The Minister said: 
It specifies that there shall be at least a majority Australian control over both equity and policy in resources development, and that we will devise and implement an integrated and co-ordinated national fuel and energy policy. 
One notes the words 'there shall be at least'. I agree that there should be a majority of Australian ownership. I might say that during the election campaign preceding the contest on 18 May,  Mr Snedden  did no good for himself or his Party or our side of politics by coming to South Australia and saying he would not insist on a majority of Australian ownership in the Redcliffs plant on Spencers Gulf in South Australia. That is a policy with which I vigorously disagree. I think that a very large majority of South Australians also disagree with that policy, and certainly they show it in the vote that they give Labor in our State. 
In rejecting this Bill I say that I listened with some doubt to Opposition senators who continue to champion the development of Australia's vital and finite resources by overseas companies in the interests of overseas citizens. It seems to me that some of them have a quite fruitless and negative attitude in that regard. In his explanation the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  went on simply to illustrate the point that a great amount of our coal production and markets is in the hands of overseas owned companies. I take it that a great deal of it is earmarked for export overseas. He went on to say: 
We plan to use these funds - 
He was referring to the funds which he says will be available from funds previously given as search subsidies-  under arrangements to be determined. 
How are those arrangements to be determined? The House has not been informed and honourable senators are expected to vote without that information. The Minister went on to say: 
We will consider assistance to the many small companies and syndicates, which have used up their capital on exploration . . . 
What about the big companies in Australia? Are the big companies simply to be left for Government nationalisation or simply to be squeezed, because they do not give Government assistance and are prevented from getting overseas assistance into the Government's hands? Is this the normal socialistic outlook of building up the weak and tearing down the strong? If that is to be our economic approach, we all know the answer. 
The Minister spoke of the natural resources which are substantially controlled by overseas interests and of the off-shore leases which greatly favour some overseas companies. In that regard too I have a great deal of sympathy. I may say that in the years 1968 to 1970, when allocating one off-shore lease area in South Australia, the government of the day quite carefully and deliberately excluded an overseas company and gave the lease to a large Australian company in the hope that if oil was found on that lease it would remain in Australian hands. I think that is a very sensible approach. I would like to see it continued in the further issue or approval of exploration licences in valuable areas in and offshore from Australia. 
No, not to my knowledge. That company was, and is, in partnership with a United States company in other areas off-shore from Australia. The Australian company has not yet been successful in this particular lease. The water is rather deep and the area has not yet been fully tested. Bearing in mind the odds associated with oil drilling, the company probably will not find anything. But the lease was allocated quite deliberately on the basis that if oil was found it would be in Australian hands and happily developed by an Australian free enterprise company. 
-That is correct, and I believe that it was probably the first decision made by that Government on that basis. 
The rest of the speech goes into the emotional and, in very many places, the proper arguments for retaining these resources for Australians. But, as I said, there is no development of just what the policy is to be. I find it a sorry state of affairs that, as just one person among many in this chamber, I must oppose this Bill because I do not know what it means. That is not a good enough effort on the part of the Government. My vote does not mean anything as the votes of honourable senators on this side of the House will not mean anything in regard to this Bill. I suppose that we just express a point of view. But there might be better government in Australia if, during the time which they have available to them during parliamentary recesses, Government Ministers worked out in more detail the proposals that they put to this place and to another place. I think that this would contribute to the eventual success of the Bills which the Government puts forward. 
I think that this Parliament is quite justified in expressing its opposition to this Bill on the basis that it is simply a blank cheque. It is a new procedure to enter into very competitive and disputed areas with the States. If one studies the Minister's second reading speech properly and reads between the lines one can see that he makes threats to the existing system, which so far has been pretty successful in Australia. Despite the fact that we have had a very difficult time in the area of the ownership of off-shore minerals and oil in Australia and that the States have not always had, and have at times deliberately acted against what otherwise would be, a national fuel and energy policy, the Government still has not explained its full intentions. As I said, I hope that in the administration of this Bill, if it does proceed through the various disputes after it passes the Parliament, the Government will quickly define its intentions so that private industry in the mineral and oil field can proceed with confidence in those areas which the Government approves. At the present time I feel that all exploring companies in the mineral and oil field would be dismayed, and they certainly have expressed that dismay. It does not matter whether this expression has been made purely on behalf of their shareholders or on behalf of the industry in general; they are justified in their dismay that they do not know what this Government intends to do with them. For that reason I intend to vote against the Bill and against the amendment. 
I understand that the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  would like to conclude the second reading debate on these Bills. I will not hold up the Senate very long. I am somewhat confusedand I hope that the Minister will be able to clear up as much confusion as possible when he winds up the debate- as to what the Opposition's attitude really is to these measures. 
I can only hope. I was in office in the South Australian Government when this issue first blew up significantly between the States and the Commonwealth as to who had jurisdiction in the off-shore submerged lands areas of Australia.  Senator Greenwood  talks of confrontation by this Government. Certainly we had a confrontation then by the Government of which he was then a member. It was a confrontation that should not have taken - 
I do not blame  Senator Greenwood.  I am just filling in with facts. I remember clearly how the States got their huff up and stood firmly against the Commonwealth and that the Right Honourable John Gorton did not come around and talk with us about the general solution that might then have been arranged. I remember saying at the time: 'If only the Prime Minister would take the trouble to talk affably and amicably on this subject with the State Premiers we might very well reach some compromise solution.' My view always had been, and it was a simple view- probably too simple to be workable- that the States should have settled on the 3-mile limit and the internal waters as then measured by whatever the petroleum agreement is and that the Commonwealth should have got everything outside those boundaries. It seemed to me to be a very sensible approach in that any on-shore mining that extended under the sea for a mile or two or any particular extraction of minerals or substance included in the definition within the 3-mile limit should have been managed by the States. However, that compromise was not to be. 
We have since had passed the Submerged Lands Bill with this piece of it excised, as I understand it, by the Senate last year. I also understand, or I think I understand, that if the High Court challenge by the States to the Submerged Lands Bill does not succeed the Commonwealth will find itself in possession of a huge amount of submerged land for which it will have responsibility of management in relation to minerals and mineral exploration. As the agreement already exists for oil I take it that, as the Minister's second reading speech indicates, the urgency may not be nearly so great as that which pertained to the oil agreement of some past years. But it also seems to me that if the Commonwealth becomes properly in possession of the administration of this quite large amount of territory it will certainly need a mining code to be able to develop it on behalf of Australia. What is the Commonwealth to do if it has its jurisdiction confirmed and has no means of managing its development? That, to me, is the puzzling thing in the Opposition's argument. 

 -No. Mr President, I am new to this Senate.  Senator Jessop  can tell the House, if he likes, why it is sensible to deprive the Commonwealth of what is a working part of all the submerged lands legislation. If the honourable senator will get up and tell me, I will be very happy to listen to him. 
We know that he is a junior senator with 2 years to go, or a little less than 2 years. But that is by the way. The Minister is talking of national significance, and that is what I want to get at. 

 -Mr President, I feel at home once more. I have listened to  Senator Greenwood's  dissection of some of the detail of the Bill. He may be right in some of it; I do not know. Certainly I do not agree with some of it. He criticises the application of the civil law as it is in the Australian Capital Territory to, as he put it, people working on a platform or some such project off the north-west coast of Western Australia. What if they happen to be working on 2 platforms and are daily crossing the border from the Northern Territory into Western Australia? Would that mean, under  Senator Greenwood's  recommendation, that they would exist for breakfast in the Northern Territory under Commonwealth law and for lunch and during their working hours under the laws of Western Australia? That to me would be the height of nonsense. It would be quite nonsensical if that is what  Senator Greenwood  is saying, and that is all I can decipher from what he said. 
Yes, I suppose it does raise a very large difficulty. 
-The only sensibility I can give to that is that at least we have 2 divisions of civil authority; whereas on what  Senator Greenwood  is saying we have three, as projected by  Senator Webster.  Not only would the men go from the Northern Territory to Western Australian law but they could come to one or the other across that as a base. It seems to me that at least those who may operate off-shore ought to know under what law they operate, whether they be living on ships or platforms and wherever those vessels may be manufactured and taken. All sorts of regulations must be adhered to under State administration, and surely there must be some common thing in relation to them. 
-That seems to be a very sensible thing to do. I wonder whether Queensland has done the same. 
Well, that is very good. I see no reason to divide it by  Senator Greenwood's  device. Duplicated bureaucracy also was mentioned. I take it that the gist of  Senator Greenwood's  criticism was that the States are best left to conduct mining affairs rather than have a mining organisation set up by the Commonwealth to attend to off-shore operations while the States do it on-shore. I can only say here that there has been a very great division between States at certain times in the past as to what ought to be amicable relationships in working mineral deposits. I remember that before the petroleum question was settled by legislation of the States and the Commonwealth  Mr Dunstan  journeyed to Melbourne to take  Sir Henry  Bolte down a peg or two and to win from him a disputed area of territory which was of a D shape between a projection of the border with South Australia and a type of right-angled base to the coast. I remember how  Mr Dunstan  came back with his tail between his legs, having achieved nothing in his confrontation with  Sir Henry. 
I shall not comment on that. All I can say is that it was an area of dispute which, I believe, held up exploration for a few months at least. 
-Mr Dunstan will do everything he needs to do to capture votes in South Australia. That is the only objective he has in political life. 
-No, it may not be. But that is the only action he will take. If I have to disagree with him, I again will feel very much at home. 
I understand that  Mr Gorton  and people - 
If you will let me finish, I will tell you. The honourable senator is very impatient,  Mr President.  What I am saying is that I understood that  Mr Gorton  had said in the past and this Government says now: 'Let us have the test to settle the validity of the legislation'. On that basis, who can criticise a government for testing it? The test has been invited; people are responding. Therefore I do not disagree with  Mr Dunstan  's approach to this or with the other Premiers' approach. I take it that everyone wants the issue settled.  Mr President,  does that satisfy  Senator Durack  as an answer? I am sorry that I took 10 seconds to tell him instead of one second. So, as I say, I am rather puzzled that the Opposition can apparently pass the parent Act, the Seas and Submerged Lands Act, which is now under challenge, but does not want to pass the machinery to make it work. That is the puzzle I have. Certainly, my inclination is to support this Bill since the Opposition supported the other major part of the legislation when it came through as a single Bill in the first instance. I am not voting on any political ideology there. I just want to make the thing work, when the issue is settled as to who administers it. 
Well, that is certainly one way of looking at it, and it is certainly one way in which I have looked at it. I might even vote that way. It depends. 
-Senator Webster should not jump to conclusions. If he is as easily led as that, he will be in real danger in this place. All I am saying is that this could be a very serious piece of legislation for Australia. It has international ramifications which even the junior senator from South Australia,  Senator Jessop,  recognises. As I say, I am inclined to support it. But, as it is obviously a matter of great administrative importance, I would like to hear the Minister's reply. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent me moving a motion for the disapproval of the determinations by the Remuneration Tribunal tabled in the Senate this day. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is the motion seconded? 
-Mr Acting  Deputy President,  I take it that I may speak to my motion. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Yes, the honourable senator is in order. 
I believe that the matter of the determinations which were laid on the Senate table today should be settled very quickly. Any honourable senator would know from his contacts with the people of Australia that there is extreme and very widespread disquiet throughout the community about whether the Parliament will accept the determinations of the Remuneration Tribunal. Time is a very important factor in the public's confidence in the economy as a whole and in members of Parliament and the attitudes they may take to the acceptance of the determinations. I believe that not one more day than necessary should go by, because of the public's disquiet, without having this matter settled in this House of Parliament or the other, whichever the case may be. Therefore I have moved for the suspension of Standing Orders on the basis that the Parliament would co-operate in at least settling the question. I do not believe that there are many honourable senators who have not been approached in some way or another by their constituents or the media in relation to their attitude. I believe that it is quite wrong if the consideration of this matter is delayed and the public loses confidence not only in the economic scene but also in the Parliament. I can assure honourable senators that the matter is quite urgent in the public's thinking. 

 Mr Acting Deputy President, I know that you would not let me proceed into the actual reasoning behind the intended motions for disapproval. But the Act specifically makes mention of this type of parliamentary scrutiny. I would like to think that the Senate can save one more day's doubt- it will be another day before the Senate sits again- as to whether this matter will be discussed properly and publicly in the Senate. I would have thought that, as I sought only to give notice of motion and this implies no commital to the motion by honourable senators who might allow me to give notice of the motion, the Senate in its wisdom would allow me to proceed. This is one more chance to do that. Of course, by allowing for the suspension of Standing Orders the Senate does nothing more than allow me to proceed along the lines of giving notice, as was my original intention. Therefore, as the motion involves no committal and by allowing the motion to be passed honourable senators may pursue their own viewpoints later, I believe they ought to take what I submit is an extremely wise view, namely, facilitate the settling of this matter quickly. As tomorrow is the last sitting day this week I suggest that honourable senators could support and ought to support the motion I have moved for the suspension of Standing Orders. 
I do not want to speak for long but as we have to vote on this motion I thought I might express a point of view. As I understand the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers),  he simply believes that it is more convenient for members of his Party to go home on Thursday night or Friday morning and come back the following week. I do not follow that logic. 
If we are dealing with this from the point of view of convenience I do not understand it because it would be much easier to continue sitting for an extra day, having settled into the routine of the week, than to return here the following week. 
I understood that we were to have a week off. I stood in order to seek information and the fact that I do not have it should not be a matter of personal criticism. I am inquiring. 
-That is why I am on my feet. I said that I did not understand what was proposed. If  Senator Webster  would be quiet someone who knows might tell me. If we are to come back the following week I will support  Senator Withers  but if we were to have a week off then I would take this week. Perhaps the Minister who is in charge of business in this House might tell me because no one else has done so yet. 
 Senator Webster  used the word despicable about some unnamed members of Parliament. Then he went on to use the most despicable of all arguments in supporting his own case by going into very personal references regarding a matter which has the widest of import to 13 million people. If we are to consider the salary determinations on the basis that  Senator Webster  adopts in this House, God help Australia. For heaven's sake let us lift the vision of this place a little higher than that indicated by the speeches of  Senator Withers  and  Senator Webster.  They do nothing to enhance this House and they will hasten the day for further calls for its abolition if they continue on that line. 
-They will. They will not stop it. 
-Yes, I believe that  Senator Webster  did have his say. I thought that he might have known a little better because of his position in this place than to keep on challenging the Presidents rulings. There is a great deal of urgency about this discussion because already attitudes in the community are being hardened and they will be quite firm and hard by this time next week. The public is extremely cynical about the apparent acceptance- and I say apparent' because of the newspaper reportingby Parliament of the determinations at this particular time. It would seem to me that  Senator Wood  is very timid about the possible reactions of his colleagues by wanting to put it off until Tuesday. How on earth can anyone in this House say that he needs more time? What on earth is wrong? If members of this House want more time they certainly do not deserve the rises, because they are incapable of assessing moves which have been reported in the media for the last several weeks. Everyone knows what the moves were. If they say they did not know until yesterday what was the substance of the rises, then, quite frankly, they are not up with general reporting, if it takes so long to assess what the determinations mean to the economy then I suggest that honourable senators go out and ask the chambers of commerce to which  Senator Webster  referred. They were in touch with me this morning. Why have they not been in touch with  Senator Webster?  In fact I told them to get in touch with his Party because I had heard that his Party was dragging its feet on this issue. I said: For heaven's sake get in touch with our side in politics which appears to be neglecting the public interest in the question '. 
I cannot help it if  Senator Young  is somewhat upset. It is not my intention deliberately to upset him, but it does not worry me if he is upset. I am worried about the future of Australia in view of what the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  said on Tuesday night was a most dangerous situation- that wage increases were completely out of control- and about a Parliament which is not able to grapple with this issue in a debate which is offered for the rest of the day after 2.15 p.m., I take it. The situation about the bringing in of this resolution had better be cleared up a bit because  Senator Wood  accused me- I do not know quite what the accusation means- of politicking with the Labor Party. I was out of this House dealing with other activities - 
I beg the Senate's pardon. My apologies to  Senator Wood. 
-Of course, I withdraw. 1 have no intention of maligning  Senator Wood.  It was  Senator Wright,  I understand, to whom I should have referred. I apologise to  Senator Wood.  I do not know whether he resents being mixed up with  Senator Wright.  They are both honourable gentlemen and I would not mind being mistaken for either of them. I hold them in some esteem. 
It is up to  Senator Carrick  to make up his own mind about that. I refer again to the cry that I had been politicking with the Labor Party. I was outside this place attending to other business and I came in and found this debate in progress. I went to the person who, I understood, has been designated as Manager of Government Business in the Senate and asked him what was going on. The bringing in of this motion ought to be discussed. I think it should quite rightly be discussed during this debate as to its urgency. Yesterday morning I set out to prepare a case to move for the disapproval of this determination if it came in in the form in which I understood it to be from reports in the media. I contacted a parliamentary counsel yesterday morning, I obtained from the Library a copy of the Bill setting up the Remuneration Tribunal, I scribbled down a few notes, and I awaited the introduction of the report. After the report had been laid before the House, with the assistance of a parliamentary officer I helped draw and had drawn for me a motion of 3 parts.  Senator Wright  this morning has moved a motion exactly word for word with my motion. Therefore I cannot complain. In fact, I congratulate  Senator Wright  in adopting word for word the quite lengthy motion which I had prepared. 
-To what point of order is  Senator Wright  speaking? 
Senate and  Senator Hall  was implying that the staff had plagiarised his motion. 

 -Mr President, when I was rudely interrupted by  Senator Wright  I was about to say that I was reflecting on no one. My observation of parliamentary procedure is that if a motion is drawn up correctly there is only one motion. Obviously, if  Senator Wright  went to the parliamentary officers with a similar objective he would have been given the correct motion, which was the one prepared last night. There is no reflection on anyone. I cannot understand  Senator Wright,  who has apparently a long experience in this place, suggesting that there is some reflection on parliamentary officers. It is a pure bit of grandstanding and nonsense for him to say that there is. But I will not pursue that matter. 

 Mr President, I submit that the urgency to have this matter disposed of is very real. There can be no demand by honourable senators that they need more time. They know now what they will do. I do not know why they need some outside support or some outside crutch to make a decision here. They ought to be able to make that decision today. As I have said, I support the motion which was introduced by  Senator Wright  because it is the correct one. I am happy to support it. If  Senator Wright  recognises the urgency of this motion and proceeds with it I shall speak fully in support of him. I will be happy to second or do whatever is necessary with this motion. But I believe that  Senator Wright  does not have the moral authority of this House to block discussion. The reason I tried to have my motion accepted yesterday was that recognising the urgency of this matter I wanted to ensure that it was debated today without the necessity to suspend Standing Orders. Of course, the Senate did not give me permission to do so. I believe that it was  Senator Wright's  side of the Senate which refused permission last night to allow the notice of motion to be proceeded with. So I believe that he could show some co-operation. 
I tried dispassionately to explain to  Senator Wright  the origins of the motion which he read. I suggest that we come to a truce on this matter because the move started before he took his action. But I do not care about that. What I am saying to  Senator Wright  is that it is futile for him to claim that he has a right to block discussion by refusing the Senate's right in this very urgent matter to restore confidence in this place. I believe that it is good enough to be able to discuss a matter of prime importance.  Senator Young  says: 'Phfff'. 
I apologise to  Senator Young.  There are so many 'phfffs' coming from the section of the chamber in which he is sitting that one cannot distinguish between the 'phfffs' I believe that there is little more to be said except to say that if senators do not think this matter is urgent they are not in touch with the public. They are simply out of touch with the public if they do not believe that this matter should be urgently dealt with now. I do not think  Senator Wright  has much evidence to back up the statement that the Government is getting off the hook. I would think that everyone would be willing this afternoon to face his .or her responsibility as a representative of his or her State. In mentioning the word 'State' may I say that I would think that all State governments would view this matter with great urgency because the arrangement of their budgets under the enormous pressure of wage control will be of extreme concern to them. If there is some last vestige of the claim that this is a States' House I ask the Senate to agree with the motion to suspend Standing Orders and to get on with discussing some matters which will vitally affect the States. 
I have much pleasure in supporting  Senator Wright's  motion. I compliment him on the way in which he moved it. He can rest assured that I will support that motion through the debate and into the vote. I am pleased that we have both been working towards a similar objective. I am rather disappointed- I suppose that that is an understatementwith the attitude of some Opposition speakers. If there is one point that has come out of the debate so far, it is this: Whilst the Labor Government has made an appalling decision, its members have stood up and have been counted. Even the figures have been published somewhere. At least the members of the Labor Party are standing up to their decision. But I was very disappointed this afternoon to hear  Senator Carrick  say that he was passing the decision back to the Government. Why did he say that? We know that there is a progression of events and that they cannot be turned back. The Government, with all its authoritarian control in its ranks and in Caucus, has made a decision and will not alter that decision. The scene has therefore progressed out of the House of Representatives. There is no power there to deflect these determinations. The power to deflect exists only from the start of this corridor and in these benches. That is all there is in Australia. There is nowhere else-only this little grouping of seats which will have an effect on it. Yet  Senator Carrick  says he will not take the decision. Why is he sitting there? What is the purpose of his occupying that red seat if he will not be a senator? I am astounded at that attitude. I would have thought that people on this side of the Senate would at least stand up for their opinions as much as do those opposite.  Senator Carrick  made out an admirable case for positive action. He not only agreed with everything the Federal Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  said on Tuesday night; he amplified it very well. But he said he is not going to take action, that he will pass it back to the Government. 
It may be a move taken by the Opposition in all good faith but to the public it will look like a fiddle and no smart talking by members here will make it look otherwise, because, as I understand the move by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers),  he will allow these payments to begin on 1 August while something is held over here and he will go to the Government and say to  Mr Whitlam,  who does not control Caucus anyway: 'We want you to put legislation through both Houses to defer the payments'. The Prime Minister might not control Caucus but he was smart enough about the double dissolution to outwit those on this side of the House and I suspect that if he uses the same tactics he will string them on and do it again. Is the Liberal Party to be put in the same position again at the mercy of Government manipulation? It tried once and failed. Is it going to do it again? The track record is not good enough to support that sort of move. 
I was using the previous one only to illustrate the point ofthe Opposition putting itself in the hands of Government management. I can see the Government quite easily stringing along this side of the Senate. The payments are being made and when the Government will not act- it cannot act under its rulingsthe Opposition here will have the job of going along a month or so later and taking away what has been paid into everyone's bank account. If that is not a messy, undesirable situation I do not know what is. There is only one clean way of handling this and that is to defer for up to 12 months. As I read the legislation which controls the setting up of the Remuneration Tribunal, that is permissive and not mandatory. The Tribunal must report within 12 months; it need not wait 12 months. Surely it is a sensible attitude from this side of the Senate to take that view and make a clean job of it which the public will understand, because despite the reversion for a good deal of this debate as to the effect of these determinations on members of Parliament, the real purpose of any disapproval of the determinations is on behalf of the public outside this House, not on behalf of members in here. We know that everyone here would lose something; we do not have to argue that point. Therefore we make it on behalf of people outside the House, and if we are to do that it is important that they see it clearly and not regard it as a fiddle. It is quite hopeless to temporise in this fashion. For the life of me I cannot see the incentives for the Opposition so to temporise. Nobody has really said why he wants to do it this way. Opposition senators would like to follow  Senator Wright's  leadership in this matter. I do not think that is really in question. I think that they respect the honourable senator, but there must be some reason why the Opposition wants to be devious. 
Yes, it wants them deferred and it wants to put it into a strategy which I have said has no certainty at all. In fact, if there are any odds, they lie heavily against the Prime Minister and Caucus being influenced by a plea from  Senator Withers.  It just does not add up to any straight presentation of a case. I suppose I can add to the things that we all know about the severity ofthe expansion of inflation. A fortnight ago I met an individual who worked for a firm. He told me that the people on the counter serving the public in his firm had recently won a rise of $37 a week. He said: 'The thing that frightens us is that they are already preparing their next case'. He then said: 'We had a vacancy on staff and we went to one of these people and said "The job carries $11,000, will you take it? ' '. ' The person who had been asked said ' No, I can do better out here; I do not want your staff job.' 
There are plenty of these examples around. That one is absolutely factual and so it coincides with  Senator Carrick  's explanation of the problem. The scene is one of extreme gravity. If it is an extremely grave situation in this way, and if  Mr Hawke  has approved these rises, one can only expect that industrial labour will use them as the basis for immediate applications for increases across the board. We would be foolish if we thought otherwise. Every contact I have in industry says it is happening, and we all know the publicity about the metal workers and so on. Surely this side of the Senate does not need any further explanation of the gravity. Every member sitting here knows it; he is in contact with it. Why is he ignoring it? Why does he want to be devious about it? It might be an idea of  Senator Withers  or the Party. But why! On what is it based? Why the prevarication? If any confirming factors are needed, it might be an idea to adjourn this debate and let senators on this side of the Senate go home for the weekend -if their rooms are not already filled with telegrams. I have plenty in mine. It appears that they are not converted to the urgency. 
It leaves me bereft of understanding of motives from our side of politics. As I said somewhere else earlier today our side of politics, above all else, must be credible today and stop saying one thing and meaning another. There is a need for action. I believe there is one futher reason which should move members on this side. It is the claim of their parliamentary leader in another place that the economic ills of Australia should be fixed by a social contract. May I say that that idea of a social contract has been thoroughly discredited wherever it has been aired publicly. We all know that the shop steward at General Motors-Holdens Ltd at Elizabeth will not think twice about a social contract. Neither will members of the Liberal Party hereand that is the difficult thing for this Party. It wants a social contract but it does not want to face up to it itself. It wants everyone else to do it and it talks of a fiddle, deferment. What will the public think? Once again, leaving any idealistic attitude aside for a moment, it is a losing play. 
I do not think there is much more I could say. We have had a fair go today; we have been talking since 10.30 this morning while  Mr Snedden  was descending through the fog, and we have been talking about the issue since lunch. I would have liked to see this thing settled today because I think it is a vital necessity that the public do not run away with an idea which cannot be taken from them and which they cannot be shaken out of because members in this place were tardy in acting. Opinions are formed quickly and firmly about these matters. I would have liked to see it settled today but if members here have not yet enough motivation I suggest that they go to their electorates at the weekend and come back and vote on this on Tuesday. That is not for me to say; I simply make a suggestion to them. From my experience in politics I believe that politicians mislead themselves very badly during the week that they spend in Parliament House. It is an ingrown sort of society far removed from the people we represent. I have seen decisions made at the end of a week in that sense which have been bad. It would appear to me that members here have been listening to themselves too much and not enough to those people whom they represent, and they are about to make a decision which is about as bad as the one they made on the double dissolution issue. 
Perhaps I should draw to the Senate 's attention what some of the newspapers are saying. I notice one headline: 'Squirrels' Swing M.P. Pay Decision'. Labor Party senators may care to read this article for their edification. I think that the editorial of the 'Australian Financial Review' portrays what the public is thinking. 

 -For Senator Georges' benefit, I do not have that paper in my possession. I intend to quote in part from the editorial of 'Australian Financial Review' of 25 July. Perhaps  Senator Georges  should read all of it. 
I guess the honourable senator is always motivated ideologically. He has no flexibility in his viewpoint. He certainly has no flexibility when he endorses this pay rise despite the needs of the rest of Australia. I would like to quote briefly from the editorial. It states: 
For the Whitlam Government it is an opportunity that has been lost. Faced with a rate of inflation accelerating past 14 per cent a year, the Cabinet at least should have been prepared to capitalise on the general feeling of dismay at the CP1 figures and bring in a tough economic package knowing that it had 2 months up its sleeve before bringing down the final September Budget for the year. 
It baulked at this. Caucus also bridled. Imagine how lacking in toughness Treasurer Crean will be next time around when he does not even have the phychological assistance of . . . figures. If he could not win the battle in Cabinet this week, he has no hope then. 
It goes on to say other things which of course back up that opinion. I have read that small section at random only to illustrate that this is what the public is thinking. It is of no use for members of Parliament to complain that the public might be thinking this way or to say that the media is responsible for that type of thinking. It is fact. The public is thinking in this way and the public overwhelmingly would require us clearly to disapprove of this determination. 
I am not saying that all members of the public are angels in the field of wage restraint. We know that amongst the public are many people who are involved in making further approaches for an improvement in their conditions and an increase in their pay although they have already just received one. 
I am not drawing the line here. There are people in the community who have not passed on the advantages of tariff reductions, if that satisfies the honouable senator's desire for even-handedness 
-That may be, but that is the subject of another matter. If we are acting on behalf of the public it is important that we have regard to what the public is thinking. The Opposition is not going to manufacture the thinking of the public. I suggest for the sake of Australia that it makes a very clean decision, not a messy one. I believe that it will fail in the end if it tries, for political reasons, to put the responsibility back on the Government when the Government has accepted a responsibility. The Government made the wrong decision, a very bad decision, but it has accepted the responsibility of making it. Members of the Opposition do not want that responsibility. That is the difference, a difference which I did not expect to come out today. One of the thoughts that a lot of people from our side of politics have today is whether there is any difference between Labor and Liberal on this question. It would appear that the only difference is that honourable senators on this side of the chamber will not accept the responsibility of making a decision. 
Sitting suspended from 5.59 to  8  p.m. 
a ) A motion for leave of absence to a senator; 
A motion touching the qualification of a senator, 
a motion for the disallowance of a regulation or ordinance or the disapproval of an award made under the authority of any Act which provides for the award being subject to disapproval by either House of the Parliament; 
An order of the day for the presentation of a report from a select committee. 
I submit that clearly the matter which was the subject of discussion before the Senate when the sitting was suspended for dinner comes within standing order 66a  (c).  Therefore clearly this is business of the Senate and it takes precedence over Government business and general business. 
The following business shall be placed on the notice paper as 'Business of the Senate' and shall take precedence of Government and General business for the day on which it is set down for consideration . . . 
I have before me the printed notice paper and also the notice paper which is roneoed and circulated to honourable senators every morning. I look in vain for any business of the Senate. It is not listed on the printed notice paper. It is just not listed for today.  Senator Douglas  McClelland did not advert to that point. 
The following business shall be placed on the notice paper as 'Business of the Senate' and shall take precedence of Government and General business for the day on which it is set down for consideration . . . 
A motion for the disallowance of a Regulation or Ordinance or the disapproval of an Award made under the authority of any Act which provides for the Award being subjected to disapproval by either House of the Parliament; 
I suggest that quite clearly this has been done today. 
Clause (c) states: 
A Motion for the disallowance of a Regulation or Ordinance or the disapproval of an Award - 
I believe this is the operational section of this standing order-  made under the authority of any Act which provides for the Award being subject to disapproval by either House of the Parliament; 
Therefore  Senator Wright's  motion takes precedence over Government Business and I rule that the debate may proceed. 
There is no doubt that the increase in charges laid out in these Bills is justified on a business basis and that the Post Office will have to increase its income from some source or another. The Bills indicate that the source is to be an increase in charges for services. When one looks at this justification and at the fact that last year the Post Office apparently simply broke even and is now facing the same inflationary situation that all businesses in Australia face, one understands that there is a real need to make up its funds if it is to continue to maintain its services and invest in the future. However, at this moment Australia is suffering from a very real and deep crisis in leadership. This Government is failing to provide that leadership. There is a great disquiet in the community on every indiscriminate rise and every indiscriminate move by government, and this appears to be one of those very important and yet indiscriminate moves. 
We know that if the Post Office does not obtain its funds there will be a diminution in the services it can render and there will be an even greater backlog in the telephone services which this community requires. The number of applications for such services is now quite considerable. As one can imagine, if the capital of the Post Office were to be cut there would be a very real increase in the numbers awaiting service, and so the efficiency of Australia would be reduced. In a country as large as Australia the efficiency of communication is one of the first matters of concern. However, I intend to support the amendment. I do so for the reason that I know it will not accomplish any long term stay of these rises. As someone on this side of the chamber said, it will cut the Post Office off from, say, $20m to $30m in the intervening period until these charges are made fact in the Budget or in some parallel legislation at Budget time. But such a deferment will allow the Government to proceed with a far more detailed plan for the economic management of Australia and the management of a very large concern such as the Post Office in concert with other plans. I look forwardnot with a great deal of confidence- to this Government's overcoming the very obvious defects that beset it at the moment. 
I could not help but notice in yesterday's edition of the 'Australian' newspaper the various plans which are attributed to the various Ministers of the Government. It is appalling to think that there is such a crisis in the leadership of this country which has gone through one of the most prosperous times in its history and that now we have a Government that is so deeply divided as to where it will lead this country. Without going to the comments and interpretations in the editorials one could easily say that this is a Government of about six parts. 
We find that a new tax is to hit the land speculator. This is from the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  It is to be a big thing in the inflationary fight. The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  has a scheme to counter the money crisis. The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  outlines a 6-point plan to beat inflation and he has told someone somewhere that there might be a crash in some of the Australian banks. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  journeyed from here last weekend to Adelaide and said the unions would take no notice of the example set by this Senate and the Australian Parliament in asking for wage restraint in Australia.  Dr J.  F. Cairns has advocated somewhere at some meeting that wages should rise. I do not have to go on quoting. We hear different stories from different people every day. This is not something to be taken lightly at one of the most crucial times in Australia's financial history. 
So it is quite clear that this Government has created a crisis of leadership in Australia, and no government can continue in that way. If the Government cannot pull its socks up it will be defeated because the crisis will become so great that Australia will have to tura to an alternate solution. I would like to see the Government defeated at the earliest properly chosen electoral time, but, in all common sense, in the management of a community a government ought to be able to get its Bills, such as this Bill, through. In the general working and operation of a parliament the Opposition opposes and tests the Government's intentions and, generally speaking, the Government after that parliamentary test is able to implement its decisions, and we get a coherent national development along the lines of the ideological beliefs of the government of the day. 
Here we have a different situation. The Opposition not only contests legislation but in some cases can defeat the legislation of the Government of the day. This of course weakens government. But I believe that this Senate has every right, and has the duty in fact, to defer this legislation, knowing full well, as I think previous honourable senators speaking in this debate have sensibly indicated, that it is not to be held out to the Australian people that there is some great saving of the additional costs of PMG services for a long time into the future. There is no grandstanding here as there might have been perhaps with the salary issue. The public will not be saved costs which must inevitably be incurred, and there is no more possibility of denying the right of the Postmaster-General's Department to additional revenue to allow it to operate than there is of denying the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd or General Motors-Holdens Pty Ltd the right to raise their prices in order to operate efficiently and economically. The rises will come; it is simply a question of the manner in which they will be imposed. If the Postmaster-General's Department is disappointed it must look to the Government for the reasons because the Government has left this country bereft of any coherent financial leadership- and for that conclusion one does not have to refer to anything more than the image of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  going into the Lower House and reading half a speech, leaving the whole of Australia wondering why he gave such a preamble to so very little which followed. 
So I will support  Senator Durack  's amendment although I thought that he did go a little far in one or two references, for instance when he said that the Government was using the Post office as a method of raising revenue. He went on to say that this was tax gathering. I do not agree with that. It is quite obvious that the Post Office with its enormous requirements for capital investment whether it is to be kept at a status quo or running at a loss or even if it is to make $60m a year profit is making little enough if it is to be likened to a business corporation which needs to reinvest in its business. I certainly reject any thought that these Bills should be seen as a method of tax gathering. I do not see them as such and I do not think anyone who studies the Post Office accounts could make this out to be a tax gathering effort. It is a means of allowing the Post Office to meet its obligations in the general inflationary situation. I am in agreement with  Senator Durack  in complaining that in meeting that general inflationary situation the Government has no plans which appear to be effective. I also have- and this is not altogether a side issue- the lingering doubt about the efficiency of the Post Office services. We know there have been some rather notable areas of industrial disruption in the Post Office. I am informed that its overall record is better than the Australian industrial average. But I can only say that it appears to be able to mount a very flamboyant industrial disturbance now and again and those disturbances are certainly in the heart of its distribution services. 
I have always wondered about the efficiency of the line maintenance service of the PostmasterGeneral's Department, and anyone who comes from the country areas and has seen the line maintenance service in operation, or out of operation, will know the very great amount of money that has been wasted in that area of maintenance services over many years. I will not go further than that at the moment, but if the officers of the Department care to have any real investigation of that part of their services they will find that I speak the truth and that a lot of people agree with me. 
Being a newcomer to Canberra I have been presented with a book called, I think, 'Tower on Black Mountain'. Some very intelligent people have spoken to me about it. They are technically qualified people and their view is that the Post Office intends to put a reputed tower, to cost $6.5m, on Black Mountain overlooking the citythis could obviously grow to at least $ 1 Om by the time it is completed- and that the transmitting point from it will be about 1 2 feet higher than the existing tower on Black Mountain. Does the minister intend as an economy measure to re-think his approach to the Black Mountain project? 
-No, it has not been adequately canvassed, and the people of this city do not think it has been. There have been some rather peculiar ramifications about continued action in the face of court cases on this issue, which do not read very well. 
I am sorry about that. I have been speaking to people who maintain that they have, and they say they have not had any satisfactory answers. If everyone is to bear some sort of burden in containing costs, the Postmaster-General  Senator Bishop  might very well have a good look at that point. To me it is not a deciding factor in making the decision to defer these charges, but I have noted in a corner of my mind there has not yet been a publicly acceptable answer to the complaints that these people have made. 
The debate will have to conclude soon and I do not intend to speak for very much longer. However, I return to the point, with which I agree, made by those on this side of the House who have spoken and those who moved and seconded the amendment. That -is that there is a very great need for leadership where is does not exist at this moment. The Government will have to provide it - 
-As far as South Australia is concerned - 
There are some rather unusual things that happen in South Australia in regard to costs and I hope that this Government does not model itself on the South Australian Dunstan administration when dealing with costs. I could tell the honourable senator something about how money is wasted in South Australia. When the Budget is presented, I might take time to enlighten the honourable senator as to how the much vaunted public relations exercise which is the South Australian Government is actually wrecking the industrial base of that part of this nation. 
I know that they do not because there is a very good public relations machine and very little else. If the honourable senator wants to test out the South Australian Government and its supporters, I ask him to ask them what that Government has done for that State in specific, individual terms. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  Order! I remind the honourable senator that the Senate is debating the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill and the Post and Telegraph Bill. 
Yes. I leave the honourable senator where he began. Finally, as an illustration of how this Government apparently lacks all sense of approach to the public and all credibility in its economic management, I refer to last weeks salary debate and the decision that was taken. The Government had a great opportunity to build upon the example which was shown. But what telegram did the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  send to the States? He asked them not to take care of the future so much but to revoke increased salaries granted already according to statute. Of course, he wrecked one of the greatest opportunities to appeal to State administrations that he will ever have in his time in government. That type of management is the reason I cannot accede to what this Government has done in such indiscriminate moves as this. I close my remarks by saying that the Government simply will not live unless it pulls its socks up and does better. 
I take the point put forward by the Minister for Agriculture. I believe that the first amendment was expansive and that the one now under consideration is limiting. I do not agree that directions can be given in a way which could create or form a basis for challenge to the operation of the Act later. I do not intend to support the amendment. 
My remarks will be brief. I suppose it would be easy to share the concern of  Senator Carrick  about the Australian Labor Party perhaps being able to implement its ideological views through the powers conferred on the Government by this Bill and about the Bill perhaps not having any immediate effect on the inflationary scene which is bedevilling Australia. However, I do not share the somewhat pessimistic view which I feel is pervading this side of the chamber that we on this side will be in Opposition forever. I look forward to the day, very soon, when we who now sit on this side of the chamber will be in charge of and administering this legislation. That is the more optimistic view which I take when I say that I support the Bill. 
It has been quite evident that parallel with the growth of controls over Australia's monetary system- one could argue that this may be by chance or it may not be by chance- Australia has enjoyed an unparalleled sense of prosperity. I can certainly sympathise with those who manage our economy and who say that they would like to be able to draw into the general financial controls in Australia these non-banking institutions. I can only say, in a general sense, that I am worried, as a number of Australians are, that so much of the financial requirements of Australians are met today by the non-banking system when they ought to be met out of the banking system. I believe that the banking institutions in Australia are far too conservative in their lending programs. I believe that there are far too many refusals today of applications by fine individuals who require finance. They are turned away, although they have the security, and are told to approach a finance company. So we have what I believe is a very direct inflationary system in which an individual pays about 20 per cent interest on money borrowed from a finance company instead of the bank overdraft rate. The sooner we can expand our normal banking system to take the place of as much of the high priced money as possible, the better Australia will be. 
Institutions outside the control of the banking system which bid against each other for funds which are scarce, at least for their particular uses, are encouraging the higher price for money and are involved in creating some additional pressures in the inflationary scene as we know it. So I will be happy to listen to support of the amendments which have been foreshadowed, although I believe that the Bill ought to go through pretty well as it is presented. But I am quite happy to Listen to the amendments and to see how they are supported in Committee. 
I repeat that my general view is that whilst these non-banking institutions have certainly been able to mobilise a great deal of capital and to place it in the hands of consumers who have supported to a very large extent the industries of Australia, particularly in my home State of South Australia where a great deal of Australia's consumer durables are produced, I regret that a person can go to one counter of a bank and be told that no funds are available and can go to the next counter, to the finance part of the organisation, and be told that funds will be available. Whilst there may be all sons of reasons for this- how those funds are collected, a different market and a different interest rate behind the collection- it still seems rather absurd to the customer who is denied the traditional finance which he would have been given some years ago. 
-Not all banks are subject to across the board criticism. In the last few months, even when finance was supposed to be tightening, one bank was advertising personal loans and was saying: 'If you want a set of drums, come and see us. If you are a young person, we will provide finance by way of a personal loan'. I think that is a good way of providing finance. Instead of having to use high priced money, young persons were being attracted to an interest rate which is sensible and which is within their capacity to pay. But there is not enough of that money. That is the assessment which I make, at a very superficial level. 
Representations have been made to me, as no doubt they have been made to all Parties and all members, regarding a number of amendments. I am attracted to the complaint- I suppose one could call it that-that different organisations have a different attractiveness to investors. It is almost impossible to fix a simple general interest rate which financial institutions can offer to potential investors. Not only does their attractiveness alter depending upon their backgroundwhether they are Australian institutions or whether they are overseas based- there is also a different attractiveness in the market in the various States. I have been asked by one representation to inquire whether the Government, in implementing clause 15, will give an undertaking that it will allow differential rates to suit the market as it is now catered for in the demand and supply situation of the money market. With those remarks, I support the Bill. 
I cannot quite see why the Government is so adamant in not accepting this amendment. It seems to me to be a statement of wish and desire rather than any disciplinary or mandatory part of the Bill. In fact, if it is to have any force it certainly could not work in the interests of finance companies because here we are dealing with higher priced finance which is usually bridging finance or certainly most expensive finance for housing. If this type of finance is to be regulated in the interests of housing, it must be regulated in a fashion which will reduce the interest rate which it will bear. If that is what the Opposition wants, I think that it would work very much in favour of the Government's intentions to regulate and, where it can, reduce the high cost of this type of finance to the community. So I do not see the amendment as containing any more than an expressed wish. I cannot see why we cannot have 'housing' alongside 'full employment'. It is necessary for people to have a job and it is necessary for them to have a roof over their heads. I cannot see it as any more than an expressed desire which cannot but work in favour of lowering interest rates if it has any effect whatever. 
I intend to keep honourable senators for only several minutes. I join with  Senator Wright  in deprecating the move by the Government which was foreshadowed at the Premiers Conference on 7 June by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  He said that the Government would discontinue the subsidy on petroleum products at places where otherwise the prices would be inordinately high. I did not hear  Senator Wright's  earlier remarks; I heard his latter remarks. I am not sure whether he, through long custom, knows that these matters are the subject of papers that are laid on the table. But certainly an amendment to the Act in 1973 was followed through by the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy)  on 2 April of this year when he laid on the table the whole new Schedule of subsidy prices for petroleum products in Australia. This Schedule is subject to the amendments which were made in 1973, and which provide that the Schedule is treated as a regulation and is subject to disallowance in this House. 
Is that what  Senator Wright  said? I am not sure. I do not want to get crossed lines with the honourable senator again. I think our purposes are in a similar vein. I am not trying to pre-empt him because I do not know what he said earlier. All I am saying is that I will move for the disallowance of this Schedule, if  Senator Wright  has not already stated that he will do so. If he has I will support him. I want  Senator Wright  to know that I am not trying to pre-empt him. I have been working on this matter since I heard, shortly after 8 o'clock this evening, that there had been a vote in Caucus of 45 to 42 in favour of continuing what I believe is a disastrous policy that will be quite hard in its impact on people who live in decentralised areas in Australia. As some $28m in a full year or something like $500,000 a week is involved in this subsidy on petroleum products in Australia, I believe I should make it known tonight to honourable senators that I will move for the disallowance of the Schedule if  Senator Wright  has not pre-empted me in some remark I did not hear. 
In that case, I will move for the disallowance if given the opportunity in the Senate. There was some confusion abroad as to whether this Schedule was subject to disallowance. I want to place on record that, following an amendment that was made last year, these Schedules are subject to such action. Under sections  48  and  49  of the Acts Interpretation Act, with exclusions which do not affect this particular case they are subject to disallowance as normal regulations are. For many reasons- I would only bore the House if I were to state them in detail tonight- I would certainly support, and if necessary move, such a disallowance motion when the time comes. 
I continue: 
Set out hereunder is the position as at 30 June 1975 based on the financial experience for the year ended 30 June 1974 and projections for 1974-75 allowing for higher hospital benefits, a 40 per cent incease in contributions, the updating of provisions and working capital reserve and the effects of substantial increases in Award rates of pay and inflationary effects on the costs of goods and services used in the day to day administration ofthe Fund. 

<graphic href="060232197408014_84_1.jpg"></graphic>


 Mr Hayden ignores the necessity for the Funds to have any working capital reserve or to update the level of provisions for outstanding claims to meet the greater liability resulting from the increases in fund benefits. It is apparent from the above figures that the 52 per cent to 58 per cent increases in fund benefits required to cover the 50 per cent increase in hospital charges and the 167 per cent increase in fund nursing home benefits cannot be provided without the increase in contributions determined by the Funds. 

 Mr President, hard words have been said on both sides and I thought that the funds at least ought to have it said on their behalf that they have a quite different set of arithmetic from that ofthe Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden). 
With the Minister's intention, as set out by  Senator Greenwood,  apparently to gain public sympathy for his stand on the health funds, which is not a popular stand at the moment, I tend to believe the funds. 
by leave- I give notice that on the next day of sitting I will move: 
That the Senate recognises the importance of maintaining transport links in the interior of Australia, and the impact that petroleum prices have on this network and that, in view of the vital contribution citizens living in the interior make to this country, the Senate requests that the Government reinstate the scheme formulated under the States Grants (Petroleum Products) Act 1965-1973. 
I would also like to know more of the reasoning behind the promotion of the amendment. It would seem to me that the amendment is less specific than the Bill. That is the general feeling I get from reading it. The amendment converts policy' to 'general policy' and 'amount' to 'volume'. The words in the amendment seem to be less specific in their references than the words in the Bill. I assume that they are designed to weaken the impact of the clause. I make that observation in the form of a question. Is that the intent? 
The argument seems to have drifted away from the desirability of the particular clause and the effect it will have on the people concerned and whether the Senate has continued jurisdiction over the decisions made under the Bill. I do not know how many determinations are likely to be made, but nobody seems to have canvassed the question whether the Senate should have that jurisdiction. 
I imagine that perhaps it ought not to have it. There will be particular determinations made which obviously will not be very popular at times of political stress. Whether the Senate would tend to move, if it had the control that we seem to be arguing about for a direct regulation is another matter. I imagine that the argument ought to get back to a recognisable area.  Senator Cotton  does not seem to have been able to support his amendments in very great detail. I am listening to the debate as someone who is looking for information. For that matter, the Government does not seem to be able to oppose the amendment in very great detail. I wonder whether this argument is not drifting right off to one side from the core of the amendment. 
I have received representations about this matter, as no doubt other honourable senators have. I have been informed that, particularly in relation to my State of South Australia, there has been a differential in the rates of interest offered by building societies to attract the funds that they need. In our particular instance, over a number of years rates have been consistently lower than in other States. I fully support the amendment giving the discretion so required. 
I see this amendment not as one to be considered in the future on the lofty premise that Parliament will oversee but on the premise that a party will obstruct. This Bill could be completely unworkable if this clause is amended in this fashion because the onus of getting the business through the House would be reversed. Instead of the normal regulatory fashion of the Opposition being put into the position of mustering the majority to defeat, the government is to be put in the position of mustering the majority to substantiate. In this sense of division here, the government, as politics becomes tougher as time passes, no doubt could expect this Bill to be inoperable. I share some of the concern about what this Government might do with the various powers it has at its disposal in the Australian community but that does not mean that we can make its approach to legislation unworkable. I cannot support the amendment on that basis. I cannot accept the point that  Senator Cotton  so nicely put that Parliament would like to oversee it. I think this would give the Opposition an advantage which it has never had before in regard to regulations. 
Question put: 
That the sub-clauses proposed to be added  (Senator Cotton's amendment)  be added. 
These Bills are being discussed in the wrong week of August. They should be discussed after the constitutional procedures that the Government is using in order to get around the frustration caused by the Senate have been exhausted. As a senator in this chamber I would have been very much happier to have voted on these Bills after the joint sitting is held next week. I criticise the Government for bringing these Bills in at this time, because we are being asked to express an opinion on what are Bills of detail attached to the principle which is being subjected to challenge at the first joint sitting in Australia. I believe that the Government could very well be foregoing support which it might otherwise receive if it proceeds with these Bills at this time. The situation is clear. The Government has yet to proceed to the final step which has to be taken following the presentation of the Bills on several occasions, their defeat on several occasions and the intervention of the double dissolution. 
I believe that Opposition senators should vote for these Bills if the Government's major health legislation is confirmed next week. I hark back to my earlier remarks in this chamber when I detailed the challenge that the Liberal and Country Parties issued to the Government prior to the double dissolution. On very many occasions the Leader of the Opposition in this chamber  (Senator Withers)  and the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  in the other place clearly said to the Australian people: 'We want to test this Government at the electorate level, and we want the people of Australia to vote and pass judgment'. Of course, the Australian people have done that, and we are to face the challenge that I have mentioned. It seems to me to be quite wrong of the Government to anticipate what will happen next week. Although the Government might be able to count, it could lose one or 2 members as a result of industrial disruptions which might prevent them from attending the joint sitting next week. If that should occur, it might give some impetus to the Government's very slack plan to counter industrial disruption in Australia. But the Government must not presume as yet to have won the vote next week. It seems to me to be quite wrong for the Government to proceed in this way and to put honourable senators on this side of the chamber, particularly me, in the position, which I do not like, of having to vote against all these Bills at this time. Why should we hastily be put in this position before the decision on the general legislation is known? 
I am not all that keen on the detail to which  Senator Carrick  referred. Much of what he said is subject to challenge. A tremendous rise is occuring in the cost of hospital and medical services throughout the world. If we look at the position in the United States, which we seem to follow in many ways, we find that the costs of health care are enormous. That country does not have a nationalised health scheme or a health scheme of this nature, which the Government would claim at this stage is not a nationalised health scheme. 
It has Medicare. 
-Senator Baume would know that health costs throughout the world are rising at an enormous rate.  Senator Carrick  said that a family would have to pay another $60. 1 doubt that his mathematics take into account the 40 per cent rise in contributions. 
If they are based on tomorrow's rates I do not criticise him on that point. The real point is that the dramatic rise in the cost of medical and hospital care will mean a great additional burden on every Australian to meet those costs, whichever way they are expressed. I agree that the direction which the Government is following will obviously lead, as  Senator Baume  said in his maiden speech to a reduction in output in medical services in Australia. There is no doubt that that will be manifest in many ways- over use of services, a reduction in output and an increase in costs, which is automatic anyway. Great difficulty will lie ahead if the Government removes from the medical services the existing incentives. I believe that the 1.35 per cent levy will disappear. Similar levies have disappeared previously. After the last war  Mr Chifley  imposed a levy for social services. I have forgotten now what it was. I understand that it disappeared under a Liberal-Country Party government several years later. 
-No one said that the benefits have disappeared, but the separate method of collecting and compartmentalising government expenditure by allowing citizens to contribute to a known return in social services was wiped out very quickly. I would expect this levy to be wiped out very quickly. I think it is quite unrealistic to assume that this Bill which imposes a levy of 1.35 per cent is anything more than an introductory aspect of the Labor Party's health plans. I imagine that the cost will soon be met out of general revenue if the Bills are passed and implemented. I think that the argument at this level is a little too detailed. I think that we should return to general principles. Certainly we should return to the Government's very poor timing. On the last sitting day before the joint sitting begins next week the Government confronts the Senate with decisions which may stand altered after the joint sitting next week. I do not know whether that is perversity or some type of political planning, but it is not good enough to treat the Senate in that way. It seems to me to be not in the Government's own interest to treat the Senate in that way. I would ask the Government to stand these Bills over until the week after the joint sitting, so we can have another look at them in the light of where the Government stands in relatioin to the position of its major Bill. If that were done, I think we would all be happier in our consideration of these Bills. 
I do not think there is any doubt that, if the Government continues to be frustrated with regard to this Bill and its measures to introduce its health scheme in Australia, it will obviously approach the public with a very well-designed plan to obtain sympathy and support from the public. I am quite sure that I support all of  Senator Greenwood's  remarks in his assessment of the intentions of the Minister. I do not intend to detain the House but I would like to refer to the Minister's statement relating to the reserves of the 2 funds mentioned, which are alleged to be over $50m. I can only quote to the House the figures that have been given to me in answer to the charge that the reserves of the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia and the Hospitals Contribution Fund stand at $53. 6m as outlined by the Minister. This is the answer I received when I asked for the funds to justify their reserves. I would like to read it out. It says: 

 Mr Hayden claims that the MBF and the HCF have financial reserves and liquid holdings totalling more than $50m and gives the following figures as at June 30, 1 973: 

<graphic href="060232197408014_83_0.jpg"></graphic>

The total for the HCF is given as $24.2m. Taking the organisations together, the total given is $53.6m. The answer goes on to say: 

 Mr Hayden is not stating the factual position when he incorrectly adds specific provisions to the balances of funds. Provision for outstanding claims and other provisions such as provision for long service leave are actual liabilities which the Hospital funds will have to incur and such moneys are not available to provide higher benefits or to reduce contributions. 
As far as the MBF is concerned, it did not have$29.4m free reserves' as suggested by  Mr Hayden.  The correct balance of the MBF hospital fund as at June 30, 1973 was $ 1 2.9m made up as follows: 

<graphic href="060232197408014_84_0.jpg"></graphic>

Debate interrupted. 
One of the tragedies of the non-Labor side of politics in Australia is that it almost invariably stands against the extension of the franchise to its fullest. Today, with the experience that I have behind me in the matters of electoral redistribution and electoral reform, I thought, when listening to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  that I was back in South Australia listening to members of the Legislative Council. Apart from the 2 remarks of the Leader of the Opposition relating to the change of mind of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and to the capacity that the 20 per cent variation gave for a better allowance, in his view, the Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the Australian Country Party simply laid bare the poverty of their parties' attitudes to electoral reform. There is no doubt that on this issue both sides of politics in Australia use different dictionaries. Both sides say that they believe in equal representation, in one vote one value, but then go on to give their different interpretations. If at this stage my view happens to be that of the Bill brought in by a Labor government I am not ashamed to say so. The speech of the Leader of the Australian Country Party was, in fact, a travesty of what he said previously. I shall quote his remarks made in previous debates, if I may,  Mr Chairman,  soon. 
The issue surely is based on 2 facts or 2 studies, the first concerning the justice of the legislation, standing in its own right, and the second concerning the claim of the Government to it. I think they are the 2 issues which are paramount in this debate. It would seem that the Liberal and Country Parties, represented in the debate on the Commonwealth Electoral Bill (No. 2) 1973 in the last session, I understand, by the Leader of the Australian Country Party, speaking for both parties, must have made a judgment that it is better to gain some political advantage by the effect that the wider distribution, the quota variation of 20 per cent, will have on boundaries than to see a reduction in their advantage by the criticism that they stand against the extension of the franchise in this way. It is incredible to me that the Liberal Party, at least, can stand against the full implementation of this Bill. I wonder how any person on the Opposition side who calls himself a Liberal can stand behind the Leader of the Country Party in what he said to the House previously. I say that on behalf of my Party which, in South Australia, is beginning to be widely recognised as a far more Liberal party than those that have gone before. 
The basis of the last election is contained in a number of statements made by leading political figures. The Leader of the Liberal Party,  Mr Snedden,  said on 4 April this year. 
Now is the time to put it to the choice of the Australian people. 
He was speaking generally of the Opposition's dissension with the Government. He went on to make this key statement: 
The people of Australia did not give a mandate to this Government to change the whole nature of the Australian democracy. If that is to happen, it can happen only by the freely expressed will of the Australian people. The only way to determine that is by an election for the government of Australia. 
His colleague the Leader of the Country Party, speaking on the same day in the program called 'A Current Affair', said this of the Government: 
It's exceeded its mandate and I believe the Australian people have a right to reassess their point of view and to affirm or reject the Government that it put into office 18 months ago. It 's a case now of whether the Australian people still feel the same as they did in 1972. 
They were the words of the Leader of the Country Party in setting up the election. 
-The Leader of the Country Party tries to distract me.  His  20-minute speech was a distraction and did not deal with the issues. The Leader of the Liberal Party in the Senate,  Senator Withers,  in setting up the election, said: 
Why do we take this course of action? The Opposition and the Opposition parties- I hope my friends and allies will not object to my including them in this statement-when the Electoral Bill first came before the Senate last year - 
I interpose to point out that he mentioned the Electoral Bill: decided to vote against it. We knew full well that we were embarking upon a course which could lead to a double dissolution. 
Later he went on to say: 
As far as we are concerned, the sooner the Prime Minister sees the Governor-General and obtains his double dissolution and this matter is resolved by the people, the better . . . 
In setting up the double dissolution the Leader of the Liberal Party in the Senate specifically mentioned the Electoral Bill. 
We can have more distractions if honourable members would like to speak of them, but I am dealing with the Bill. It is quite clear that the Opposition parties in both Houses of the Parliament set up the election as a test for the Government. They said so clearly in so many words, and at various times mentioned specific issues. There is no doubt that this Government has a very fair claim to the Bills which it is presenting to this Joint Sitting. Whilst it is somewhat difficult for new members of the Parliament to vote according to that premise, because they did not have a hand in causing the double dissolution, I believe that former members of the Parliament who have been returned certainly should support the result of this Joint Sitting. There is no other way to look at Australian democracy. Not to do so would be to deny constitutional representative government in Australia and to set up a dictatorship in a House which is not based on that form of representation. 
I have a history of involvement in electoral reform in South Australia, as I have said. I could recite the long list of quotations which I have here and which would make honourable senators and members of the House of Representatives think that they were listening to  Mr Snedden  or  Mr Anthony.  They are words spoken by legislative councillors in South Australia who went through the old theme. While they might believe in equality of representation they have a different view of what 'equality' means. They perpetuate the myth, which in itself denigrates country people, that country people are beset with particular disadvantages and therefore should have electoral advantages. I have seen members of a party move through country areas telling country people for decades how disadvantaged they are and at the same time, in a parallel fashion and as a result, they have drawn that countryside down to a position where it has been ridiculed by democrats. It is the result of the Party that has so implanted that undemocratic viewpoint in the minds of country people. I am pleased to say that there are many country districts in South Australia which are now accepting the view that there should be equal value through one vote one value. In the recent byelection which was held to fill the vacancy created when I became a member of the Senate, the Liberal Movement won the State seat on a policy of one vote one value in one of the more conservative country areas in South Australia. It only needs to be held up as a fair thing and people will know and believe it. 
What does the Opposition say outside of this debate and other debates on this Bill? I would like to quote several passages. In a speech on 20 March 1 973, on this same Bill,  Mr Snedden  said: 
Our purpose is to maintain, as far as is practicable and fair, the principle of one vote, one value. We wish to ensure that electoral results will reflect the opinion of the majority. If the electoral processes are manipulated to serve the political interests of persons or parties it would be a denial of democracy and a travesty of the electoral process. 
He then went on to say: 
The potential movement of population is fundamental to the proper establishment of electorates. 

 Mr Anthony, in a speech on 10 July 1 974, said: 
This Bill really represents the latest attempt by the Government to destroy the just and fair principles on which electoral distributions have been conducted since federation. 
He went on to say: 
I believe there is a principle of equal, if not greater importance than the mechanical  theoretical  principle of one vote one value, and that is the principle of equality of representation. 
That is where, in  Mr Anthony's  view, the area of an electorate transcends the value of what people say on their own behalf as individuals. In the last debate on this legislation in this House he spoke on behalf of the Opposition in promoting that view. I wonder how many Liberals there are who will sit subjugated on the Opposition side when the vote is taken today. When we look aside from the justification as to whether a person should have an equal right in respect of Bills of great moment which affect his future and which are passed through this Parliament, and when we look past the basic claim of government after a double dissolution on this legislation, we can look to the more mundane justification of the difference in numbers which has already been referred to today. 
Looking at my own State of South Australia I find that in 1968, which I believe was the time of the first election after the previous redistribution, the number of voters for the seat of Bonython was fixed at 49,000, for Kingston at 51,000 and for Wakefield at 46,000. In Bonython the number has grown from 49,000 to 80,000; in Kingston from 51,000 to 72,000; and in Wakefield from 46,000 to 49,000. Therefore, Wakefield is up 8 per cent, Kingston is up 42 per cent, and Bonython is up 62 per cent. As I am an anti-Labor politician - 
Opposition members- Ah! 
Yes, I knew. As a matter of fact,  Mr Chairman,  I threw that in for effect. I have seen in my State a so-called non Labor party destroy itself because it claimed it was anti-Labor by saying that it had, in effect, the divine right to govern. If those members opposite who sit to your left,  Mr Chairman,  will some day understand that they do not have a divine right to govern but that they have to earn it they might return to this side of the House a lot more swiftly than they are likely to return at the moment because the speeches that have been given here today will not stand the analysis of any secondary school child in Australia. 
I heard one  speaker  from this side of the House- I think it was the Prime Minister- quote a passage from a speech by  Sir Robert  Menzies. There is still a member of this chamber who also had something to say about blockages which are created in the Senate. In 1953 the then  Senator J.  G. Gorton had something to say about blockages in the Senate. All I can say is that as we look out across the disruption in Australia we certainly find that it starts at the top, and it starts right here in federal Parliament. Unless members of the Opposition understand the consequences of the Constitution and the view that the Australian public will have of its consequences, they will certainly be condemned to that side of the House. There is a very real need to understand that these issues are ones to which the Government now has a very fair claim. 
I will vote, if I can move very briefly aside for the moment, against the other measures which the Government will present to this Joint Sitting and that,  Mr Chairman,  is not because of any particular views held by people on your left. I will certainly vote for this Bill and the two other allied electoral Bills. Any person who studies the history of the generation of this Joint Sitting will know that in 1974 anyone who stands against extension of the franchise stands against his own political future. 
One of the tragedies of the non-Labor side of politics in Australia is that it almost invariably stands against the extension of the franchise to its fullest. Today, with the experience that I have behind me in the matters of electoral redistribution and electoral reform, I thought, when listening to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  that I was back in South Australia listening to members of the Legislative Council. Apart from the 2 remarks of the Leader of the Opposition relating to the change of mind of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and to the capacity that the 20 per cent variation gave for a better allowance, in his view, the Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the Australian Country Party simply laid bare the poverty of their parties' attitudes to electoral reform. There is no doubt that on this issue both sides of politics in Australia use different dictionaries. Both sides say that they believe in equal representation, in one vote one value, but then go on to give their different interpretations. If at this stage my view happens to be that of the Bill brought in by a Labor government I am not ashamed to say so. The speech of the Leader of the Australian Country Party was, in fact, a travesty of what he said previously. I shall quote his remarks made in previous debates, if I may,  Mr Chairman,  soon. 
The issue surely is based on 2 facts or 2 studies, the first concerning the justice of the legislation, standing in its own right, and the second concerning the claim of the Government to it. I think they are the 2 issues which are paramount in this debate, lt would seem that the Liberal and Country Parties, represented in the debate on the Commonwealth Electoral Bill (No. 2) 1973 in the last session, I understand, by the Leader of the Australian Country Party, speaking for both parties, must have made a judgment that it is better to gain some political advantage by the effect that the wider distribution, the quota variation of 20 per cent, will have on boundaries than to see a reduction in their advantage by the criticism that they stand against the extension of the franchise in this way. It is incredible to me that the Liberal Party, at least, can stand against the full implementation of this Bill. I wonder how any person on the Opposition side who calls himself a Liberal can stand behind the Leader of the Country Party in what he said to the House previously. I say that on behalf of my Party which, in South Australia, is beginning to be widely recognised as a far more Liberal party than those that have gone before. 
The basis of the last election is contained in a number of statements made by leading political figures. The Leader of the Liberal Party,  Mr Snedden,  said on 4 April this year 
Now is the time to put it to the choice of the Australian people. 
He was speaking generally of the Opposition's dissension with the Government. He went on to make this key statement: 
The people of Australia did not give a mandate to this Government to change the whole nature of the Australian democracy. If that is to happen, it can happen only by the freely expressed will of the Australian people. The only way to determine that is by an election for the government of Australia. 
His colleague the Leader of the Country Party, speaking on the same day in the program called A Current Affair', said this of the Government: 
It's exceeded its mandate and I believe the Australian people have a right to reassess their point of view and to affirm or reject the Government that it put into office 1 8 months ago. It's a case now of whether the Australian people still feel the same as they did in 1972. 
They were the words of the Leader of the Country Party in setting up the election. 
The Leader of the Country Party tries to distract me.  His  20-minute speech was a distraction and did not deal with the issues. The Leader of the Liberal Party in the Senate,  Senator Withers,  in setting up the election, said: 
Why do we take this course of action? The Opposition and the Opposition parties- I hope my friends and allies will not object to my including them in this statement- when the Electoral Bill first came before the Senate last year - 
I interpose to point out that he mentioned the Electoral Bill: decided to vote against it. We knew full well that we were embarking upon a course which could lead to a double dissolution. 
Later he went on to say: 
As far as we are concerned, the sooner the Prime Minister sees the Governor-General and obtains his double dissolution and this matter is resolved by the people, the better . . . 
In setting up the double dissolution the Leader of the Liberal Party in the Senate specifically mentioned the Electoral Bill. 
We can have more distractions if honourable members would like to speak of them, but I am dealing with the Bill. It is quite clear that the Opposition parties in both Houses of the Parliament set up the election as a test for the Government. They said so clearly in so many words, and at various times mentioned specific issues. There is no doubt that this Government has a very fair claim to the Bills which it is presenting to this Joint Sitting. Whilst it is somewhat difficult for new members of the Parliament to vote according to that premise, because they did not have a hand in causing the double dissolution, I believe that former members of the Parliament who have been returned certainly should support the result of this Joint Sitting. There is no other way to look at Australian democracy. Not to do so would be to deny constitutional representative government in Australia and to set up a dictatorship in a House which is not based on that form of representation. 
I have a history of involvement in electoral reform in South Australia, as I have said. I could recite the long list of quotations which I have here and which would make honourable senators and members of the House of Representatives think that they were listening to  Mr Snedden  or  Mr Anthony.  They are words spoken by legislative councillors in South Australia who went through the old theme. While they might believe in equality of representation they have a different view of what 'equality' means. They perpetuate the myth, which in itself denigrates country people, that country people are beset with particular disadvantages and therefore should have electoral advantages. I have seen members of a party move through country areas telling country people for decades how disadvantaged they are and at the same time, in a parallel fashion and as a result, they have drawn that countryside down to a position where it has been ridiculed by democrats. It is the result of the Party that has so implanted that undemocratic viewpoint in the minds of country people. I am pleased to say that there are many country districts in South Australia which are now accepting the view that there should be equal value through one vote one value. In the recent byelection which was held to fill the vacancy created when I became a member of the Senate, the Liberal Movement won the State seat on a policy of one vote one value in one of the more conservative country areas in South Australia. It only needs to be held up as a fair thing and people will know and believe it. 
What does the Opposition say outside of this debate and other debates on this Bill? I would like to quote several passages. In a speech on 20 March 1 973, on this same Bill,  Mr Snedden  said: 
Our purpose is to maintain, as far as is practicable and fair, the principle of one vote, one value. We wish to ensure that electoral results will reflect the opinion of the majority. If the electoral processes are manipulated to serve the political interests of persons or parties it would be a denial of democracy and a travesty of the electoral process. 
He then went on to say: 
The potential movement of population is fundamental to the proper establishment of electorates. 

 Mr Anthony, in a speech on 10 July 1974, said: 
This Bill really represents the latest attempt by the Government to destroy the just and fail principles on which electoral distributions have been conducted since federation. 
He went on to say:  1 believe there is a principle of equal, if not greater importance than the mechanical theoretical principle of one vote one value, and that is the principle of equality of representation. 
That is where, in  Mr Anthony's  view, the area of an electorate transcends the value of what people say on their own behalf as individuals. In die last debate on this legislation in this House he spoke on behalf of the Opposition in promoting that view. I wonder how many Liberals there are who will sit subjugated on the Opposition side when the vote is taken today. When we look aside from the justification as to whether a person should have an equal right in respect of Bills of great moment which affect his future and which are passed through this Parliament, and when we look past the basic claim of government after a double dissolution on this legislation, we can look to the more mundane justification of the difference in numbers which has already been referred to today. 
Looking at my own State of South Australia I find that in 1968, which I believe was the time of the first election after the previous redistribution, the number of voters for the seat of Bonython was fixed at 49,000, for Kingston at 51,000 and for Wakefield at 46,000. In Bonython the number has grown from 49,000 to 80,000; in Kingston from 51,000 to 72,000; and in Wakefield from 46,000 to 49,000. Therefore, Wakefield is up 8 per cent, Kingston is up 42 per cent, and Bonython is up 62 per cent. As I am an anti-Labor politician - 
Opposition members- Ah! 
Yes, I knew. As a matter of fact,  Mr Chairman,  I threw that in for effect. I have seen in my State a so-called non Labor party destroy itself because it claimed it was anti-Labor by saying that it had, in effect, the divine right to govern. If those members opposite who sit to your left,  Mr Chairman,  will some day understand that they do not have a divine right to govern but that they have to earn it they might return to this side of the House a lot more swiftly than they are likely to return at the moment because the speeches that have been given here today will not stand the analysis of any secondary school child in Australia. 
I heard one  speaker  from this side of the House- I think it was the Prime Minister- quote a passage from a speech by  Sir Robert  Menzies. There is still a member of this chamber who also had something to say about blockages which are created in the Senate. In 1 953 the then  Senator J.  G. Gorton had something to say about blockages in the Senate. All I can say is that as we look out across the disruption in Australia we certainly find that it starts at the top, and it starts right here in federal Parliament. Unless members of the Opposition understand the consequences of the Constitution and the view that the Australian public will have of its consequences, they will certainly be condemned to that side of the House. There is a very real need to understand that these issues are ones to which the Government now has a very fair claim. 
I will vote, if I can move very briefly aside for the moment, against the other measures which the Government will present to this Joint Sitting and that,  Mr Chairman,  is not because of any particular views held by people on your left. I will certainly vote for this Bill and the two other allied electoral Bills. Any person who studies the history of the generation of this Joint Sitting will know that in 1974 anyone who stands against extension of the franchise stands against his own political future. 

 - Mr President, I seek leave to ask a question of  Senator Withers. 
My question to  Senator Withers  is: How long does he want the Senate to devote to the subject which he has raised today? I suggest that he should give to the Senate a firm indication of the time he wants to devote to the subject. 

 Senator WITHERS (Western AustraliaLeader of the Opposition)-  Mr President,  I seek leave to answer the question. 

 Senator Durack, who will move the motion, and  Senator Willesee,  who will reply to it. I do not know whether that would be acceptable to the Senate. 
I oppose the amendment on the basis that it seems to me, as the previous  speaker Senator Button  said, that the legislation has been in the Houses of Parliament long enough for members of the Parliament to have made up their minds. I imagine that if the matters which are disputed were seriously disputed they would be attended to by amendment in this place. I can see nothing wrong with members of the Opposition who dispute any aspect of the Bills moving amendments to put right things which in their opinion are wrong. That would be a proper use of any Committee stage in Parliament. I cannot agree that it is proper yet again to try to delay the legislation. 
Whilst each case with which the Opposition deals by delaying tactics or serious amendment appears to be reasonable on the surface, I have begun to do a little tallying up in my short time in this place. I find that the Opposition's publicly stated, bland attitude to various pieces of legislation is quite different from its intentions in this chamber. I remember the Financial Corporations Bill which was dealt with only a short tune ago and which the Opposition said it supported. Yet it tried to amend the last few sections. If the amendment had been carried the Bill would have been made quite inoperable. We have seen in the lower House an Opposition which says that it believes in trade practices but which has tried to amend the Trade Practices Bill to make it inoperable. We see here an Opposition which believes in the extension of the work of the AIDC but which tries to delay this legislation until October. Are we to see every piece of legislation being the subject of some reasonably pronounced amendment which will destroy or delay it? Yet this Party, which makes these moves out of sight really of public scrutiny, goes to the public and says that it supports such legislation. 
The Opposition no doubt will make its own way and its own reputation, but so far all I can see in its attitude is a lot of humbug. If the Opposition wants to argue about this particular Bill, that is a good thing; that is the way democracy ought to work. But after all these years I can see nothing being accomplished by trying once more to delay the passage of this legislation. One can use the speech of the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  to all sorts of good ends to argue both sides of the case. He said: 
A broad cross-section of interested views was obtained on this subject in the hearings of the Senate Committee which was established last year to review the legislation that was then before the Parliament. The Opposition recognises that the considerable amendments that have now been brought forward by the Government are largely in response to suggestions made at that inquiry . . . 
He went on to say: 
The Opposition accepts that the Government has made important amendments to the legislation since its introduction to the House of Representatives last year. 
He said that it was the Opposition's viewpoint that it should not be passed by the House of Representatives until the Senate reported. But that is a bit of something each way, is it not, because the principal spokesman for the Opposition has said, in Opposition-type language, that the Opposition had just about all it wanted from the Government by way of amendment. That is what one reads between the lines if one looks at Opposition criticism, because it is extremely mild criticism. So there is no justification for delaying further the passage of a Bill which should be very useful to the development of Australia. 
If I may say so very briefly, I have always been a proponent of this particular Corporation. Of course, I would like to see it empowered to take further risks in the business community. I think it was  Sir John  McEwen when introducing the first Bill on this subject- or it was one of his supporting speakers if it was not him- who said that the Corporation was not set up to take risks. In South Australia the Playford Government, without this type of organisation, took a great deal of risk on a local State scale in supporting ventures which did not always look very viable at the beginning. I would like to see this organisation extended in the future, after it has achieved successes which I believe will come, so that it can take a little more risk in its approach to Australian ventures as well as provide an accumulation of savings to bolster Australian enterprises. 
I do not intend to waste the dme of the Senate because I think the Bills ought to be passed. I simply wanted to say that I support the concept of the organisation. It would appear to me that the Opposition in the House of Representatives has done the same thing. The legislation has been studied over a lengthy period in both Houses of the Parliament, and there is no case for delay. 
There seems to be a very great lack of information at the base of the question, namely, why does this gentleman want asylum in Australia and on what basis does he claim it, if he claims it? 
I do not contend against the remark of  Senator Button.  I am taking the view as put by the Opposition that he might want to - 
The senator has given no reason to the Senate except that he might like to stay here. 
-I have not had a chance to read the affidavits. I am speaking on the information that the Opposition has or has not given to the Senate. I take it that this is how 90 per cent of honourable senators view this debate. I do not know the reasons for which this person wants to stay in Australia, if he does want to do so. 
-They are not before the Senate in any verbal form. That raises many conjectures. I understand that there are Austalian citizens outside Australia whom Australian forces would like to get back into Australia. There are other occasions upon which Australian citizens have journeyed overseas in the service of their country and would not have been allowed to leave the service of their country. As a State member of Parliament I personally have been involved with 3 cases of Greek citizens who jumped Greek ships. In each case, the police forces of Australia were hounding them to arrest them and deport them. I may say that through the good offices of certain people, two of these people were allowed to stay but the third one was deported. There are all sorts of reasons why people might be given sanctuary in Australia and all sorts of reasons why they might not be given it. I do not know whether this gentleman entered into any contract. Perhaps they do not have such contracts in the Soviet Union. Therefore, the whole factor is that there is no information except that a man might want to stay here in Australia. I believe that the Government has answered fairly lucidly the charges very weakly put against it in this debate. So I state that no case has been put for the motion moved in the Senate which quite rightly is in authoritarian terms. It states that he be not permitted to leave Australia until such time as he has had an opportunity for 24 hours at least to discuss the matter with friends and advisers. If the situation is resolved in the next hour or twowho knows; perhaps it is already resolved- or if it is about to be resolved and if this motion were carried and implemented, we would perhaps open the way for the position to be divided again and for it to become another point of contention. So there is just no information upon which to pass this motion, except the information as given by  Senator Durack. 
No, it is not sufficient. I should like to know what distinguishes this man from other people who would like to stay in Australia but are not allowed to do so. A further reason for my rising tonight is not to add to the general wisdom, which is at a very low level from this side of the chamber, in this debate but simply to say to  Senator Wright  and all his fierce compatriots who obviously are trying to revive another Petrov affair from a baseless situation- certainly baseless at this time - 
The junior senator who interjects is the reason why I am on my feet, because his colleagues and members of his Party in South Australia would be the first to say, as I voted against this motion tonight, that  Senator Hall  is a communist. Already in South Australia a list is circulating- it comes from the junior senator's Party in South Australia- naming - 
Thank you,  Mr President.  I had indicated that the Opposition had presented no real facts to support its claim for the passage of this motion. I had continued to say, on a rather personal note, that another reason for my speaking was to obviate obvious claims which would come from  Senator Jessop  's Party in South Australia that I was allied with communists for voting against this motion. I was about to elucidate for honourable senators the fact that there is already a list being prominently featured in South Australia- a list prepared by members of his Party- showing how often  Senator Hall  has voted with the Labor Party and how often with this side of the chamber. That is the level of politics on this side. It has been reduced to one of the lowest levels I have seen in any 
House of Parliament. If members from this side press on with this motion - 

 -Mr President, I am so easily provoked by the junior senator. The situation is as I have stated. I state clearly on behalf of the people who have elected me why I will vote against the Opposition's motion if it is taken to a vote. I believe the Opposition should not take it to the vote. If it is taken to a vote I will vote against it because the Opposition has not supported it with facts. The Government has explained its position in this matter and there is not the slightest reason to use these tactics further in a delicate matter of international relations. Australia has for some considerable time recognised the Soviet Union and it should be enabled to continue its relationship with the Soviet Union in the best possible manner. It is not correct for the Opposition to manufacture a position which does not currently exist. If such a situation exists tomorrow or at some future date the Opposition could fairly claim to extend the width of its argument but on what is known tonight it cannot fairly claim to ask for support for this motion. 
 Senator Wright  certainly speaks from a very well qualified base when he talks of disruptive tactics because he certainly used his vote yesterday to disrupt very important legislation and he continues his disruptive tactics today in his many sided argument. The argument is an interesting one but we still await, of course, the amendments which are to be proposed to this Bill by those in the disruptive Party in this House. But if they follow the amendments proposed in another place by the party which  Senator Wright  supports, we will find that there are many sides to his argument. He finished by speaking against the powerful merchants, as he calls them, yet his Party in the other place moved amendments which will very considerably water down the effectiveness of this Bill against the powerful merchants. That son of argument may sound very impressive, as  Senator Wright  can be impressive in his speech, but the logic would escape most people who seek it. 
I support the Bill and I support it in its entirety except for perhaps one or two minor aspects of amendment. But I certainly support the consumer section in Part V of the Bill. I wonder, when I look at members of the Liberal Party of Australia and the Australian Country Party, whom they represent in this place. I would like to know whom they take their advice from. The political advice, wherever they get that from, is, of course, utterly disastrous. 
-The senator can argue that another time and in another place. I am dealing with the present series of Bills that have been presented to this House and the utterly disastrous political position that the Opposition parties put themselves in. All I can say is that there is a considerable number of people in the community which is growing day by day that will certainly take on this opposition from a non-Labor view. There is a tremendous amount of dissatisfaction in the community with the sort of attitude which has been voiced here today. There are 13 million consumers in Australia and in regard to this Bill the Liberal Party and the Country Party are against all of them. That is not a bad round-up for a political base. Who on earth do the Opposition Parties take their view from? Who advises them politically? They can bring up a number of dissatisfactions in the conflicts they may foresee in the future but the real point of the matter is that to go back and say that the States can get together amicably and in time- it is somewhat urgent- to present a unified front to produce in 6 States the necessary consumer protection legislation ignores completely the fact that there is a State, namely Queensland, which would like to draw a fence around itself on very many occasions and that there are political differences of great extremes between the States. Apart from that there is the parochial view that the States take in these matters which stands against any early implementation of the ideals presented by the Opposition. One cannot expect from any experience or any track record of Premier's Conferences to have any great consistency between the States. States have consistently sold each other out for parochial interests. I have seen it happen, and it will happen on important matters like consumer protection. 
I could not understand that interjection. Perhaps it is some lack of comprehension on my part. I could not understand the words to begin with, let alone the meaning. I was pleased to hear  Senator Missen  speak, and I must congratulate him on speaking extremely well to the chamber. I congratulate him on his maiden speech. Although I cannot agree with his sentiments, I know that he holds his views sincerely. 
The practical factor about consumer protection is that if this legislation is not passed by the Senate in this form and in the particulars to which it relates, it will not eventuate; it will not come into being during the time we are considering at the moment. The Opposition, if it is able to do so, will defeat the legislation. It has been put to me that the Opposition is making its move with far lower motives than those which have been stated and that it has given promises to certain people and is acting accordingly. (Opposition senators)- Oh! 
-To whom do Opposition senators listen? Whom do they represent? That is the big question that has arisen in this chamber in the last few days. It is difficult to find the answer to that question. The Opposition is not representing the truly Liberal people in this community. It is not representing anyone in particular in knocking out consumer legislation which is wanted by nearly every consumer organisation in Australia, if not all, and these organisations are not all Labor Party fronts. The Liberal Party does not have all that happy a history in matters relating to trade practices. As I understand it,  Sir Garfield  Barwick intended to move fairly comprehensively in the trade practices field. When  Mr Snedden  took over the trade practices legislation it was considerably watered down. We are moving again to introduce trade practices legislation which is closer to the legislation which was originally introduced. From listening to the remarks of Opposition senators one would assume that they support trade practices legislation, but from the action of Opposition members in another place in moving substantial amendments to the legislation one would assume that they are trying to defeat it. 
I think  Senator Webster  had better listen more carefully and not try to disrupt debates by raising quite irrelevant small points. 
There are several minor parts which I believe should be amended. 

 -If Senator Webster likes to compare a few minor amendments with the destruction of Part V of the legislation or the considerable watering down of clause 45 or some of the other amendments which were moved in the lower House, we will just have to agree to disagree entirely on the merits and worth of that comparison. I have been subjected, as I believe all members of Parliament have been subjected, to a great deal of lobbying on these issues. The lobbying as far as I am concerned has been divided into 2 interest groups. There is the retailing section of the community, and I speak of the large retailing section of the community - 
I would not like to retail what the Liberal Party got. If  Senator Webster  wants to go into past practices, I will have him on on that one. 

 -If Senator Webster wants to debate those factors I can elucidate. I can inform him of a lot of things which he does not know at the moment, but I do not intend to be drawn into breaking confidences simply because of the rather inane interjections by  Senator Webster.  The representations on this legislation have been divided into 2 main interest groups. The big retailers of the Australian community, in the representations they have made to me, certainly have not approved the trade practices legislation. Whilst their representativeshave said basically that they do, the effect of their first try at placing amendments in the hands of members of Parliament has been to water down the legislation and make it much less effective than it ought to be. On the other hand, the manufacturing community has been far kinder in its assessment of this Bill. I have generally found it in favour of the Bill practically as it stands. Statements have been made to me that any honest manufacturer has nothing whatsoever to fear from any part of this Bill. 
As the representations have gone on the division has quite clearly been made on the basis of retailer having a different view from manufacturer. There is no doubt that retailers have been exerting quite undue influence- or should I say undesirable influence- in their discount concessions. There have been quantity discounts and there have been muscle discounts. It seems that trading organisations have simply been saying: If you do not give me an additional overriding discount I will take you off my shelves and put your competitor on.' This Bill will wipe out that type of discount, thank goodness. I believe that the divisions of thought have been well brought up by representations that have been made by the various interested groups. Obviously, those who do not like the Bill will bring forward, and have brought forward, their versions of why it should be altered. Those who approve it have brought forward counter versions. I believe that the argument has been pretty well presented to the Parliament on that basis In addition, the consumer organisations of Australia have overwhelmingly supported the consumer part of the Bill. In my own experience, that part of it is necessary. As to whether there will be conflict between State and Federal jurisdiction I cannot say, but I assume - 
-I am about to say that I assume that Part V of the Bill will generally be beneficial and will raise the level of standards at which corporations must operate and present their goods to the public. For that reason I support that part of the Bill. Obviously, I reserve the right to talk about the machinery but nevertheless minor amendments. 
I think the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  is being more than kind in responding as he has. I would much prefer myself that he had not responded in that fashion but had left the Bill to be finalised as it was drawn. Some extremely adept representations have been made about this Bill by some well-qualified people. They have been fulfilling a brief on behalf of very big retailers in Australia. I do not know whom  Senator Greenwood  speaks for; I voiced that opinion earlier today. 

 -Mr Chairman, unless directed otherwise I stand by what I said. I do not know whom  Senator Greenwood  speaks for. 

 -Mr Chairman, I have no intention of withdrawing that remark. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator WebsterOrder! Standing order 4 1 8 states: 
No  Senator shall  use offensive words against either House of Parliament of any Member of such House . . . and all imputations of improper motives and all personal reflections on Members shall be considered highly disorderly. 
We have the situation in which  Senator Greenwood  has suggested that the words that have been used are a personal reflection.  Senator Hall,  I would ask you to consider whether you might recouch the remarks that you have used and perhaps not impute to a honourable senator the motive that he is perhaps reflecting someone else 's opinion in this place. 

 -Mr Chairman, I take it I can speak in explanation. 
I present the following petition from 385 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Whereas the Governments of the United Kingdom, the United States of America, Canada and many European countries have not recognized the unlawful annexation of the Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania by the Soviet Union, it has been announced from Moscow that the Australian Government is now recognizing them as part of the Soviet Union. We wish to point out that according to United Nations charter these States are entitled to independence and their peoples to self-determination and beg that such recognition be disallowed. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
 Senator Everett  has an impressive knowledge of the subject of which he speaks. I find it very helpful to listen to his contribution as one who knows a lot less about this subject than he does. Whilst I know a lot less about technical details than  Senator Everett  or  Senator Greenwood  I have witnessed the growth of consumer protection as a member of a State parliament. In fact, I was the first one to personally bring into an Australian parliament a piece of legislation which contained a provision for a cooling-off period. That legislation was called the Book Purchasers Protection Act and it had a specific- experimental at that time- cooling-off period involved in it. I will not bore honourable senators with the fight that it took to get that legislation through not only the lower house against my own political leader, but also the upper house, the members of which did not like the legislation at all. After that Bill was brought in against, seemingly, very great opposition, it was adopted by most of those who had opposed it as being a very good Bill. That legislation has subsequently been amended twice to strengthen it. I do not think it has been incorporated in any other protective legislation. I think it still stands as an Act in its own right. 
At a time when most State parliaments are beginning to think seriously about this matter all of us have witnessed the growth of legislation relating to consumer protection, credit laws, packaging and so on. We have also witnessed the more comprehensive laws that have been referred to in relation to Victoria. I think that  Senator Greenwood  has made out a very good case for this legislation because surely it is a protection to industry to have a uniform standard across Australia. I think that all State members of parliament have run into particular instances where they have been unable to proceed with what has been a desirable move in their particular State because it did not fit the general restrictions of the Australian Constitution or interstate trade. In some cases it would have raised the price of goods in a particular State by requiring a manufacturer to market goods in an isolated fashion. 
There must be very many instances which would substantiate a case for a uniform standard across Australia. Whilst I could not quite agree with  Senator Everett  that industry across the board wants a uniform standard my contact with industry in a general sense, allowing for obvious exceptions, indicates that it does not mind this. Reputable manufacturers have asked the question: 'How do you do this? What have we got to fear? We are honest operators.' If a person is an honest operator, what does he have to fear from the consumer protection provisions of this Bill? 
The Opposition does not appear to be of one mind on this Bill. I believe that the honourable member for Lowe,  Mr McMahon,  appeared on television this morning. I would not care to use his remarks in support of this clause because it is not proper to use just a section of a person's remarks to support your case when he might disagree with it in other respects. However, I believe that this morning  Mr McMahon  said that these provisions belonged in this Bill. I do not think that that is a misconstruction of what he clearly said on this morning's television program. As I say, I mention that only in passing because he certainly said other things which would not bolster my case in other directions. Nevertheless he said that quite clearly, and it is a matter of interest that the Opposition apparently is not of one mind on this question. 
I certainly support this proposal not only because of representations made by many consumer organisations, by people who are in a position properly to present a case, which I think all honourable senators have had very well detailed. It would only bore the Committee to repeat it here when everyone has it on his personal file. I support the legislation, believing in the need for it, in the belief that it will help industry and not harm it, and in the knowledge that the very growth of State protective legislation requires a common standard throughout Australia. 
I will support  Senator Townley  's motion for the reason that it is obvious, as he has stated categorically, that he will vote against the Bill if it is presented now, and it will be lost if the debate proceeds. There are a considerable number of people in the community from both sides of politics .who urgently want this Bill. Their wishes will not be furthered if it is defeated in this way. So whilst I, and I am willing to vote on the measure, as I am sure are a lot of others, I understand  Senator Townley  's pressure of work, and rather than vote for a procedure - 

 Senator Steele Hall- I understand that I have - (Honourable senators interjecting)- 
Well, I am facing the simple fact that if the Government proceeds, the Bill is lost. If there is a possibility of preserving the Bill by supporting  Senator Townley  's motion, I will do so because I support the Bill. Therefore, for quite different reasons, I suppose, than those held by some others, I support the motion. 

 Senator DONALD CAMERON (South Australia) I seek leave to make a statement. 
Question put: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
I thank the Senate for the permission to make a very brief statement. I believe that there are 2 points at issue. It is one thing to meet the convenience of a prospective speaker to a piece of legislation and to adjourn the debate on that legislation, but in my parliamentary experience it is quite another thing to take out of the hands of the mover of the motion the time to which the debate on that legislation will be adjourned. To me, those things are quite separate. This action is dictatorial in the extreme. It is one thing to arrange an adjournment to meet the convenience of the prospective speaker, but to say to the mover of the motion that the debate on the legislation shall be adjourned to a date that the opposing side dictates is quite a separate issue. 
I supported  Senator Townley,  as I probably would support him tomorrow in order to adjourn this legislation again. However, in my short time here I have not seen anyone dictated to as to the date to which the debate on legislation shall be adjourned. I do not think it is a good principle to which to adhere. That is the reason I voted as I did. I wanted to explain that because there seems to be some confusion. I believe it is a parliamentary convention which should be observed even though the numbers are against the particular desire. 
Question put: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
I am in something of a quandary about this amendment. I can understand  Senator Durack  's attitude because he, I suppose, is satisfied with the administration of a State Liberal government. However, I come from a State where the administration of a road program under Labor has been one of the most disgraceful affairs in the history of Australian government. There has been in South Australia a plan called a MATS plan- Metropolitan Adelaide Transportation Study- which was commissioned in the last few months of the Playford Government. It was therefore inherited by the new Dunstan Government in 1965. That study proceeded through the major part of those 3 years of that Labor Government and was ordered to be printed by the Government. It was therefore executed as a study at a cost of something like $700,000, which was a lot to pay for a study of metropolitan Adealide. It was basically agreed to by the Labor Government in South Australia which then lost office and turned against that plan for political reasons, and quite shamelessly attacked the plan of its own construction during its tenure of Opposition. 
The planning of roads in metropolitan Adelaide is, in fact, in a shambles. The State Labor Government claims that it has put off the construction of freeways in Adelaide for 10 years, yet secretly continues to build them. In addition, it has entered into adventures of a most reprehensible kind. To overcome the  Vh  years study of the MATS plan it imported a smart talking American so-called expert for 3 weeks to oversee, comment and decide on the 2Vi year study. Of course it got what it paid for, that is, a program described by a  Dr Bruning  with this gem of a comment: 'Where there is a developmental area there will be little traffic and therefore no need for metropolitan bus transportation'. I repeat that we have seen in South Australia a most disgraceful and reprehensible using of one of the major transport projects in Australia for straight party political purposes. I have a great deal of sympathy for  Senator Durack  in not wanting to have discipline placed on the expenditure of funds by the State Government in his pan of Australia. But for other reasons I find myself to be almost at the opposite end. I am wondering whether the Whitlam Labor Government could be any worse than the Dunstan Labor Government. I suspect, with full charity tonight, that it could not be as bad in respect to road planning. Therefore I am inclined not to support this amendment for the reason that South Australia does need some discipline in its road expenditures. 
I think of the other States and I think of the expenditure on roads. South Australia is about at the fag end of the allocations. We will deal with that in relation to the consideration of another clause. I remember the Bureau of Roads recommending in 1 969 that South Australia should get equal allocation with Western Australia. I notice that it has been recommended that South Australia should get $100m and Western Australia $ 150m. So something has altered dramatically in that regard. To return to this clause, I hope that my attitude on this matter is clear to  Senator Durack.  I have a great deal of sympathy for him in relation to the position of his own State Government, but I am seeing utter chaos in my State under the maladministration of the present State Government of its road program. I would like to hear the reply of the Minister on this aspect. At this moment I am inclined to support this provision in the hope that the Government of which he is a member will be able to discipline its undisciplined colleagues in South Australia. 
In view of my remarks last night, I shall speak briefly. I have had time to study the amendment. I think it is extremely good. It does not destroy the right of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  to insist on approval of the projects involved but it does take from him that very expanded control over areas which ought to be outside his jurisdiction. 
-Yes, I have. I think the Minister has extremely wide power under this legislation compared with the road grant situation from which it takes over. It is an enormous step into ministerial control. I would think that every possible control has been put into this legislation and the proposal under consideration is one that is not needed. 1 do not think the Minister will lose anything by its exclusion and certainly he has no cause to reject the Bill when the real power is almost left intact in it. I did want to say, in view of my remarks last night, that I believe the Minister would still have the power to discipline  Mr Dunstan  who so badly needs it in South Australia. 
I think that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  is indeed announcing a new concept. Paraphrasing his words, he said that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development had the whole concept of planning as his responsibility for road construction. In that case am I to understand that the States departments have nothing left to them? 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs is having a bit both ways this morning. He will have to be a bit more definitive. He said, in effect, that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development had the major say, if not all the say, in the planning of these schemes. Tomorrow he had better look at his words in Hansard. If he does not mean that, he had better say so. We can only accept the words he utters in this chamber. I do not believe that this amendment moved by  Senator Durack  is limiting in its effect. I believe it will make the administration of the Minister for Transport more flexible because there is nothing to stop him from going to his colleague, getting all the advice he requires, putting it into his plan and making that a condition of his approval. There is nothing in the world to stop him from doing that. All that is proposed in this amendment is a legislative restriction. Perhaps at some stage of planning Ministers of the Labor Government may fall out with each other for some reason or another and they may not give approval for some petty or departmental reason. I regard the Minister's insistence as restrictive and  Senator Durack  's amendment as making the machinery more flexible. 
I agree that the same type of principle applies in relation to the consultation and the approval which are required. However, it seems to me that we are dealing with a program which was essentially a Commonwealth program to begin with. I do not know the entire detail and history of it. Although only one State is involved, I imagine that the broad planning of the beef road system has great interstate ramifications. I think of the Birdsville Track in South Australia and some matching-in work in relation to it. I do not know whether any work in matching form needs to be done on the Track or whether it is a matter of feeding stock into that Track, but certainly it is one consideration. There must be others which do not readily come to mind. It would seem to me that there is a greater claim by the Commonwealth in relation to this clause because of its inherently overwhelming position in the beef roads scheme to begin with and because of the very real need to co-ordinate outside the long term interests of the State. In relation to the other sub-clauses we voted on very specific State responsibilities. In this sub-clause I can see a greater invasion by the Commonwealth and a greater claim by the Commonwealth. For that reason I support the sub-clause. 
I wonder whether the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  might be able to clear up just what this sub-clause means. In the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act 1 969 from which this Bill emanates, section 2 sub-section (5) states: 
An amount or a part of an amount expended, or set aside for expenditure, by a State on the purchase of road-making plant. . . . 
So there is a reference in the old roads agreement. As I understand it, that is an advantage to the States in that they claim what they spend on roads as part of their quota. Is this sub-clause meant to apply in a similar vein or is it to work against the States? I am just not clear whether we are helping the States or harming them by deleting the sub-clause. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
I had posed a question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  as to the significance of subclause (6) and how it compares with the old Commonwealth Aid Roads arrangements where sub-section (5) of section 2 deals with it. Is it meant to continue in the same vein? 
It seems to me that the benefit of any doubt ought to come down on the basis of leaving the clause in, with availability of finance and flexibility allowed to local government. I do not know whether  Senator Durack  thinks that way, but I think it might inhibit the people whom we think we are helping. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) (2.18)- Commenting on the observations made by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  who is in charge of the Bill, I point out that one of the advantages in my life, small as they have been, was to sit in local government. Moreover, I was a member of a shire council in Victoria. The question of road plant- and this is the specific observation made by the Minister-is that within the State which I represent in this place the right or otherwise to purchase machinery for the engineering requirements of the local council was decided by the shire council on the advice tendered to it by the local engineer. The reason for this is perfectly clear, or should be perfectly clear, except to those people who are maddened with the concept of centralising all administrative matters; that is, that the circumstances and the requirements of the terrain in road building change in every part of Australia and the people with most knowledge of the engineering problems that confront them in their local area are those who sit around the table and are responsible to their ratepayers for raising the money and for weighing the pros and cons of the advice tendered at that level of government as to the type of machinery required. There are different machinery requirements for different engineering operations. Notwithstanding the specious argument put forward by the Minister, that the submissions on road programs are required only for information, I am sufficiently versed in the administration of government to know that government decentralises conceptually the administrative processes but in fact, because of the nature of the bureaucratic beast, it recentralises the decision. Although the Minister has said that these details are required by the Bureau of Roads only for its information the fact of the matter is that the decision-making is  recentralised and not decentralised. On the basis that I believe that the maximum autonomy of administration should go to the furthest levels of administration and not to the central areas of administration, I support the arguments that have been advanced. I go on further to say that I have had probably far more administrative experience than any Minister who is sitting in this place or who has sat in this place. One of the problems that one has in dealing with a bureaucracy is the attempt of a bureauracy constantly to recentralise the authority. I think that the Committee is entitled to say and to insist the decision-making should be retained at the lower administrative levels and not recentralised Implicit in this clause is the recentralisation of administration by the higher authority. 
I think that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack has perhaps missed the point. The previous reference and the previous arrangement was to be for the benefit of the States. 
-That may be so. But I would not like the central point of the argument to be clouded because it was, as I understand it, an advantage to the States in certain circumstances and they had the right to elect to use it. The clause read: 
An amount or part of an amount expended or set aside for expenditure by a State on the purchase of road making plant may, if the State so elects, be treated Tor the purposes of this Act as an amount expended or set aside for expenditure as the case may be. 
And then the various categories were listed. So that was for the States to decide. It is now worded differently and more widely. My question to the Minister, which he has answered, was about whether it is to act in a similar way; he says that it is. So, without being able to pin everything in a wider expression, I submit that it is still to the advantage of the States to have it in. 
-I move: 
In sub-clause (9). leave out paragraph (c). 
I hope that you,  Mr Chairman,  will allow me to mention the next clause in passing because my intentions are coupled from the amendment which I have just moved to the next clause. Paragraph (c) of sub-clause (9) states that a Minister may: 
Revoke an approval of particulars of a project approved by him. 
Of course, that is a veto of a particular project because if the Minister was to revoke his approval the work involved would be no longer an approved project and, in my interpretation, would not be subject to further financing under this legislation. I would like to try you out on this,  Mr Chairman,  because I would like to mention this amendment in the context of clause5. In my opinion if the power of revocation is tied to a substantial part of sub-clause (2) of clause 5 we get a complete veto by the Minister not only of a particular project but also of the allocation for a State if he wanted to be so extreme. By taking away the approval for a project and then being able to stop payment under that part of clause5, the Minister has complete control and the State need not get the sum of money mentioned in the schedule. So, as I see it, we have a very different situation from that which existed in relation to the previous agreement whereby the sum of money was put into the hands of the State. While that sum of money was subject each time to the growing discipline which each agreement brought of a matching quota by the States, at least they were in possession of the money. But in this situation the Minister can simply reduce a State's allocation. Speaking for my own State of South Australia which has received one of the worst deals in its history under this legislation, this is an appalling piece of legislation compared with previous recommendations by the Bureau of Roads in 1969. As I said last night, the recommendation by the Bureau of Roads in 1969, which was only 5 years ago, was that South Australia should get equal treatment with Western Australia. I say in passing that that recommendation was not accepted by the previous Liberal Government. We came out of that too with a bad deal, but this proposal is worse. Under that circumstance, I do not intend to support any portion of this legislation which allows the Minister to further reduce, at his own discretion, the allocation to a State and particularly to my State. I would like to see the power of revocation removed. I do not see why the Minister needs to go this far. We are dealing with funds which used to be a matter of right to States. It is not so long ago that this money was disbursed as a refund of the petrol tax. To my knowledge, it was never a full reimbursement but I think that in some years it got up to about 80 per cent. It was directly tied as a percentage reimbursement of funds which were paid in by users of particular modes of transport. 
Through these agreements it has been made to seem now like a handout from the Commonwealth to the States. If we relate this back to its origin, we see this as a matter of right and not a handout. We should remember that this began on the basis of usage. I cannot see why we need to go as far as giving the Minister the right not only to approve a scheme which is far more restrictive and disciplined for the States than anything that has gone before, but also to revoke what he has already approved. To give him the right of approval is a very big step indeed. To give him the right then to take away his approval is to make him the dictator of the whole State schemes. 
I do not know what they are aiming at. I know of Bills which have been drawn much wider than has been necessary. I do not believe in making a Bill any wider than is necessary to accomplish things of an immediate sense and of a reasonable objective for the future. There is certainly no need to make the Minister a dictator not only in regard to plans and the approval of plans, but also as to whether a State will get its full allocation. We in this chamber think we are passing the allocations. We are not. We are giving back to the Minister the right to say whether we pass the full allocations. I admit that aspect belongs to the next clause but it relates fully to this power of revocation. I ask the Committee to approve the amendment. It will not in my opinion inhibit the Minister. It might make him a little more careful, if anything, and that would not do any harm at all. In the hope that the amendment will be accepted by the Government as a reasonable compromise of the power which the Minister seeks, I ask the Senate to support it. 
The Minister seems to have a reasonable argument, and I wonder what other honourable senators who have expressed an opinion on this amendment would think if we left paragraph (c) in subclause 9 and added the words 'with the approval of the State'. That certainly would meet the Minister's argument. I know that the word 'approval' would appear twice in the paragraph, but it would not destroy the meaning of the paragraph. Paragraph (c) could read: with the approval of the State revoke an approval of particulars of a project approved by him. 
-That is better wording. I will adopt the wording 'with the concurrence of the State' or 'with the agreement of the State'. I ask permission to withdraw my amendment and to move a fresh amendment. 
I thank the members of the Committee for suggesting the better wording. I move: 
In sub-clause (9), insert after paragraph '(c)' the words with the agreement of the State'. 
-I move: 
In sub-clause (2), leave out 'only to the extent that the Treasurer is satisfied that they are required by the State '. 
I move this amendment for a reason similar to that which I moved the previous amendment. Clause 5 (2) gives to the Minister a very strong veto power. Sub-clause (2) of clause 5 reads: 
Moneys are payable to a State under sub-section ( 1 ) only to the extent that the Treasurer is satisfied that they are  required by the State Tor the purpose of carrying out projects included in an approved program. 
There are a few key words in that sub-clause. Only to the extent' is one grouping and the other is 'an approved program'. The First Schedule shows that over the 3 year period we will be dealing with $700m. It would appear under this clause that the Minister could, if he became a bit contrary, simply say: 'I am not going to approve it because I am not satisfied that the funds are required by the State'. That means that we are not actually voting a sum of money in the Schedule; we appear to be voting what proportion of the sum of money in the Schedule the Minister might like to pay. 
I am not going to reflect on the Minister. I believe that he would want to pay the full amount. Under the circumstances of his present thinking he would want to be co-operative. He would want to issue a lot of directions, of course, under the power he aggregates to himself here, but he would want to spend the full amount of money. That is not to say that that will be the intent in 6 months time or in 2 years time in this 3-year agreement. We cannot allow the Minister to have this very strong veto power. I remind honourable senators again of the position which prevailed previously. We are progressing very rapidly with this Bill to total Commonwealth control in these circumstances of approved programs. I do not think the situation needs to be argued much more. Certainly, the amendment I have moved greatly restricts the Minister's ability simply not to pay the money. I believe if this amendment is approved we can be fairly sure that the Schedule sum will be paid. 
I am not contending against  Senator Everett's  point. He may be right. But that puts the onus back on the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  and his Department to make sure that they have plenty of approved projects on which to spend the money. 1 am being quite parochial about this matter. I am not going to put my State in a position in which its already lowly and quite unfair allocation may be still further reduced. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Steele Hall's  amendment) be left out. 
I believe that the Minister may have a point in this instance. He will correct me if I am wrong, but as I understand it the Bureau of Roads relies heavily on work done by the various State departments responsible for transport matters. Again, if my memory is correct, the survey which was carried out prior to the 1969 Agreement cost approximately $3m. I understand that the main constituent bodies in this survey were the State departments. If that is so, of course, this type of legislation may only be helping a further cooperative effort in the study of the planning for the development of Australia's roads system. Whilst I am sympathetic with the principle that  Senator Durack  has outlined, it seems to me that we might be inhibiting good work. We are being constrictive when we ought to leave the matter open so that the previous type of arrangement may be made again. So, I think that I must oppose the amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 13 and 14- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 15. 
1) A Minister referred to in section 4 may, either generally or otherwise as provided by the instrument or delegation, by writing under his hand, delegate to an officer of the Australian Public Service any of his powers under that section. 
A power so delegated may be exercised in accordance with the instrument of delegation. 
A delegate of a Minister, is, in the exercise of his powers under this Act, subject to the directions of the Minister. 
A delegation under this section is revocable at will and does not prevent the exercise of a power by a Minister. 
Again I believe that  Senator Durack  is operating according to a well-recognised principle and one which is desirable if it can be achieved. However I think the explanation given by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  is one which we will have to face more and more as administration becomes complex in the ever widening span of any government in which one is involved. In this instance the relevant Minister after all still will be responsible for what anyone does in his name under this delegation of authority. I see no reason why the Senate should deny the relevant Minister in this instance what other ministers have in other directions. 
Clause agreed to. 
Schedules agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report adopted. 
I am sure that we would all like to see the implementation of the Woodward Report to its fullest at the appropriate time. Certainly the benefits which were expected of it to the Australian waterfront in the better operation of the Act and better service to shipping and to the Australian public have not been realised. Australian wharves are renowned among shippers as being some of the worst in the world. They cost us dearly in economic terms. I have been told that the reason for the delay in implementing the new scheme is that the number of waterside workers in the various outports of Australia still has to be reduced by about one thousand, and that the longer the present scheme runs so the number will be reduced by natural wastage through resignation and retirement. I have been told that if the introduction of the new scheme is hastened it will cost the Australian Government about $500,000. 
-No, but I have been reliably told that that is so. I should like the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  to explain to the Committee whether, if  Senator Greenwood's  amendment is successful in bringing forward the date for the payment of retirement allowances and so on to waterside workers in the outports of Australia, it will cost the Australian Government $500,000. Are we moving ahead of time, as I have been told? I will not prolong the debate. I am sure the Minister knows what I am talking about. 
There is a remarkable lack of detail behind the explanation of the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop).  He just says that he would like to have permanent arrangements. I would like to know whether there is anything in what I have been reliably told, namely, that if the introduction of permanent arrangements is hastened hundreds of waterside workers at outports in Australia will have to be paid substantial retiring allowances but this will be obviated if the time factor is extended. That is a very pertinent factor if it is true. I would like to know how large in the argument is this financial aspect. 
I also am pleased that the amendments moved by the Opposition to this legislation have been largely accepted by the Government. Soon after the Parliament rose at the conclusion of the first portion of the session I had occasion to meet a significant number of representatives of State road construction authorities in Adelaide. I may say that they were full of interest about this legislation, as one would expect, and they were interested as to what its fate would be following the earlier threats by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  to which  Senator Durack  referred. I do not completely absolve the Minister in this House having regard to his statements on this matter when he returned to South Australia breathing fire and smoke and forecasting what would happen to this Bill as a result of what the Senate had done to it. He, like his colleague in another place, has had to eat humble pie and retract from the very negative stand he took. I am pleased to see that the amendments which I moved regarding the veto power have been accepted. Whilst we are pleased about the amendments, it is still a very small measure of alteration to the enormous powers that have been freshly taken on behalf of the Commonwealth in regard to overseeing all the expenditure of road funds by State authorities. At least I join  Senator Durack  by saying that I am pleased to see that the amendments have been largely accepted. 
As a newcomer to this place I would say that the Senate committee system has enhanced the reputation of the Senate for those who have looked at it from outside. However, I am confused by  Senator Withers'  statement that to vote against the amendment will destroy the committee system, because it appears to me from simply looking at the proposition that we are arguing as to whether we will have 5 committees or 7 committees. I must admit that I did miss some of  Senator Withers'  argument. If I missed some explanation, that is my fault and of course not his. But as I understand the argument so far we are talking about five or seven. 
-Yes, methods of reference. 
I appreciate being furnished with the information that I have missed. That means, of course, that one's consideration of  Senator Withers'  amendment might be in separate parts. It would certainly seem sensible to me if the Senate were to refer matters to the committees by a majority vote. I agree with  Senator Withers  on that point. 
 I refer again to the numbers of committees. I understand that there is a Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. I remember that some years ago  Senator Murphy's  Party refused to have anything to do with it. But in any case, are we duplicating, or tending to duplicate, by having a Senate committee on foreign affairs as well as a Joint Committee? If we are, I must say that, whilst I am generally in favour of committees, not all committees produce on every occasion worthwhile work. One must look at the efficiency of the system. Certainly it does not appear to a newcomer,  Mr Deputy President,  efficient to have 2 committees of this Parliament inquiring into the same subject. 
Well, perhaps. That had not been explained to me. This is die subject of the debate and I hope that someone will explain it. But on the surface of the matter I am inclined to vote for the major part of  Senator Withers'  amendment and exclude the foreign affairs committee because of the existence of a joint committee. I am now a little further ahead with my knowledge because of this inquiry, but I cannot see how a rejection of that part of the amendment would destroy the system. I think that that is still an over-use of the term. 
I refer to one very minor point in the motion. It uses the word 'Independents'. That is a contradictory term in relation to a description of myself in other measures before the Senate in which I am not included as an Independent. The matter is too footling to move an amendment, but I remind  Senator Murphy  that I do not regard myself as an Independent for the purpose of this motion. 
I am certain that organisationally it is wasteful to have 2 committees dealing with the subject of foreign affairs and defence. However, I have changed my mind on this issue since the Budget has been read to the Senate. The allocation for the defence of Australia has been increased by just over 12 per cent. We have been told that the general Budget allocations will be increased by 32.4 per cent over the allocations made in 1973-74. 
Whilst I believe that it is organisationally wasteful to have 2 committees inquiring into the same subject matter, it may very well be a safeguard for Australia if there are 2 such committees. I have changed my mind on this matter on the basis of the totally inadequate presentation to the Senate and the explanation behind that presentation as to how the defence forces will be maintained when the rise in their salaries and wages bill must be far in excess of the total allocation for defence in the Budget. I do not know how on earth we are going to provide sufficient defence for Australia when we are not even allocating sufficient money to keep up with the increase in wages and salaries, let alone the rapidly escalating costs for every piece of hardware that is required for defence. If I do not know, I want 2 committees, instead of one, to try to tell me. 
I am sorry to have caused the Senate this little organisational disturbance. I had spoken earlier and I could not speak again. However, I have not held up the Senate for many minutes. But I want to issue my protest and say that if some risk is to be taken I will take it on the basis that we may have a little more expenditure on another committee because the Government certainly has not given a sufficient increase in expenditure to the defence forces as such. I issue my protest in this way by voting for  Senator Withers  ' amendment. 
Question put: 
That proposed sub-paragraph (c)  (Senator Withers' amendment)  be agreed to. 
I will move, if that is the appropriate thing to do, that this question be divided into 3 constituent parts and taken seriatim in that fashion. 
Question put: 
That the preamble and paragraph (a)  (Senator Greenwood's amendment)  be agreed to. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Greenwood)  is asking the Senate to recommend the dismissal of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  on 3 grounds which the motion moved by  Senator Greenwood  itemised. The second paragraph of his motion has been the subject of very many petitions and representations that have been made to the Parliament by citizens around Australia who have their ethnic roots in the Baltic countries. I am extremely surprised to find that the Opposition would bury the only real essence of this motion between 2 other paragraphs which do not belong in the motion at all. It would be quite impossible and unjust for the Senate, even though it is a formality of protest to put in the paragraphs which call for the dismissal of the Minister, to actually call for the Minister's dismissal on what has been presented to the Senate over some hours of discussion today on what is known about the Ermolenko affair. No one has proven anything or given any evidence to the Senate to substantiate any claim for refuge or asylum made by that person. I heard  Senator Jessop  say by way of interjection that Ermolenko sought asylum.  Senator Carrick  said that he sought refuge. But no one has been able to prove that these things were said. Therefore, no one has given a reason for his request to stay in Australia, except that he liked it. That is the only construction I can put on what the Opposition is putting up to the Senate. 
I cannot prove anything, any more than  Senator Jessop  can prove anything. So  Senator Jessop  admits - 
I am quite happy to forget about it, but  Senator Jessop  is not.  Senator Jessop,  without the slightest proof, asks in the Senate that the Minister's handling of the Ermolenko affair be one reason for his dismissal from office. 
-No, it is not. It is the very furthering of the argument that  Senator Rae  uses now that damages the central core of this motion. The central core of this motion is the cause of the Baltic states because that is unarguable as an action. 
-If Opposition senators realise it, why do they damage it? It is a very ill-timed or ill-thought out strategic move to bury between 2 unsupportable propositions the very real cause of the recognition of Russian sovereignty over the Baltic states. 
-Of course I am expressing an opinion in the Senate. That is why the people elected me here.  Senator Webster  can express his opinion. But I am telling honourable senators that that is my view and it is the view held by a considerable number of other people on this subject. It is very disappointing to find, as inevitably will occur, that the debate has centred on other than the Baltic states question. If honourable senators were to go through Hansard and add up the amount of time that has been devoted to the various parts of this long debate since it commenced some time after 2.15 p.m. today, they would find that the Baltic states have been a minor part of the argument. I would like to join in voting to censure the Minister on his recommendation to his Government, which apparently was accepted, or to censure him for his part in making the decision and the responsibility he bears for the Government's recognition of the sovereignty of Soviet Russia over the Baltic states. For the Opposition to put 2 useless additional arguments in the motion puts senators who want to join in that protest in regard to the Baltic states in a very difficult position.  Senator Greenwood  has proven nothing. Every time he rises to speak in the Senate in relation to the Ermolenko affair, his credibility has gone down. It has gone down - 
I do not want to dignify  Senator Jessop  's argument in the Senate. But if he can prove to the people who elected him to the Senate and to the people who elected me here that I sit on fences, I say good luck to him. As I have said, the situation is very difficult for people who want to support the representations of the people in Australia who have their ethnic roots in the Baltic countries when those who have brought the motion before the Senate have buried that case amongst irrelevancies. 
The Ermolenko discussion- it is nothing more than that- is an attempt to put words into the mouth of someone when we have no idea what he said. As I have said, no one has given any reason as to why he wanted to stay here in Australia, except that he liked it. I know other people who would like to stay in Australia and who cannot. There has to be a bigger reason than just that. As far as the Foreign Minister's handling of our alignments overseas are concerned, obviously that would be a matter of some political conflict. But the Senate cannot legitimately ask for his dismissal at this stage for his handling of that part of his responsibilities. There is nothing proven in that regard, with supporting arguments which would justify the Senate passing a motion on that basis. Certainly, paragraphs 1 and 3 are not supportable in the terms in which they are put to the Senate. What do those of us do who want to support only the essential middle ingredient of this motion? Are we to put ourselves in the very foolish position of asking for the dismissal of the Minister as a form of protest to be carried by the Senate by voting for all 3 paragraphs? If we vote that way, it would be not just an Opposition protest- I hope that the Opposition understands the importance of that- but the motion would be carried on the basis that the Opposition has proven its case in the Ermolenko affair and on the basis that we believe the Minister has harmed Australia's national interest to the very serious extent that he should vacate his office. 
Those of us who would like to support the Opposition are therefore made to look fools on two out of the 3 propositions contained in the motion.  Senator Greenwood  may think that is funny but it is not very funny because I do not want to join with the very stupid strategic moves for which he has been responsible in the Senate. I would have thought that, following upon the publicity that has been given to apparent changes of heart, the honourable senator may have upgraded his strategy in presenting his moves to the Senate. But he has not and he has greatly damaged his case. Of course, he did not pay me the courtesy of informing me what his motion would be. I obtained knowledge of that from the Government. Therefore, he has not asked for cooperation. Certainly, he has not sought it now in the way in which he has framed his motion. However, I do join with the protest on the central theme. 
Of course, the damage which the Government has done is not practical damage in the sense of having any effect on the sovereignty of the 3 Baltic states. But what it does is divide the Australian community and to make very uncomfortable a very important section of the Australian community that has come from those countries or, as I have said before, has its roots in those countries. It is quite inexcusable that the Government should have taken this action, surely knowing that it would cause great disturbance to tens of thousands of people in Australia who hold very dear the precepts and the heritage they have from that part of Europe. Why the Government stepped far ahead of other companion countries in making this recognition is something of a mystery to the Senate and something about which the Minister will not inform it. 
-He cannot or he will not. Certainly there has been no real reason given why we in Australia should be marked in the world community as stepping forward out of Une with our allies in this respect. I resent the distress it causes to the people of those origins living in Australia. I feel very deeply for them, as obviously do the Opposition senators in general, and I join in that protest. I trust that the organisation that those ethnic groups are entering into will be effective in demonstrating to the Government that it cannot lightly throw aside such firmly and deeply held views of the people who have done a very great amount in Australia to develop this country and to change us for the better. So I support the second part of the amendment. 
However, if I vote for this motion I will make myself very foolish as a senator from South Australia in giving support to the first and third parts of the amendment. I would suggest that  Senator Greenwood  who moved this motion would serve his case a great deal better and would certainly serve the case of people who have origins in the Baltic countries much more emphatically in this debate and in its result if he sought the permission of the Senate to excise from this motion the first and third parts, to leave quite clearly before the Senate the essence of the argument which ought to be concentrated upon and which is in the minds of those people in Australia who are so disturbed about this matter. 
-Senator Greenwood was here when I spoke about that and I do not want to reiterate what I said. Certainly  Senator Greenwood  cannot separate the Foreign Minister from the rest of the Government and say that he ought to resign from the Foreign Affairs responsibility he bears any more than he can ask other Ministers to resign. Obviously honourable senators on this side of the House would like to displace all the Government Ministers, but that is the system in operation in any Westminster-type Parliament. But for heaven's sake let us concentrate on the issues and not damage the core of the matter. I ask  Senator Greenwood  in a spirit of co-operation to tighten the message that he wants to have this Senate deliver to the Government and thereby give evidence to the public and serve the cause of those who feel so deeply about it by excising the extraneous matter. 

 Senator GREENWOOD (Victoria)-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I present the following petition from 120 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Whilst the Australian Government is granting freedom and independence to Papua and New Guinea, the once free Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania are occupied by the Soviet Union and their citizens are continuously and brutally deprived of personal, civil and religious freedoms. We humbly beg to draw the attention of the Senate to this fact and ask that the matter be raised in the United Nations by the Australian Government. The annexation and incorporation of the Baltic States by the Soviet Union has not been recognised by any Western democracy, including Australia. We beg the Senate to continue such non-recognition and to disallow any steps by Australian Government which would amount to recognition of aggression. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I support the disallowance motion moved by  Senator Durack  but not for the same reasons. There is no doubt that the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  has failed to produce a policy which will guide the industry, a policy which he ought to produce at this particular time. Soon after  Senator Durack  gave notice of his motion of disallowance I contacted the Minister and he and his Department were good enough to send me what I think is an extremely good case for the Minister's asking for this power. To make sure that the Act is extended in the fashion he desires, he has given comparisons with other countries that are leaders in the free enterprise system in the world and which have similar, if not greater, powers in relation to the possession, use and regulation of uranium resources in their national interests. The documents which I have, and which no doubt are available in the Parliamentary Library, indicate that the United States of America and Canada have very strict controls residing in their national governments for the sort of management of uranium resources that the Australian Minister is seeking here. In fact from my initial reading of the documents, those countries would have greater powers than the Minister is seeking. I do not believe that the United States of America is limited by the reference to defence as is this provision outside territories under Commonwealth control. 
I feel that it is quite proper for the Minister to ask for these powers and I can see no reason, if he had a policy which he wanted to implement, why he should not have these powers. Certainly I am suspicious, especially following their introduction by the Government, of the motives behind a number of Government moves, but in seeking to regulate the production and usage of our uranium resources the Minister would be doing no more than  Senator Durack  has asked, and that is that there should be limited exports under strict conditions which are subject to the national interest of Australia. One would assume that the Minister is trying to do in Australia what other countries have done before with this important and finite resource and that, in the words of  Senator Durack,  he would be regarding it as our national resource. If we dug it all up and sold it, it would not be our national resource but that of someone else and we would have a monetary payment in exchange for it. So there has to be some vision of Australia's future fuel and power needs, and uranium, on the assessment which we have now of Australia's fuel reserves of all forms, will probably play a very heavy part at around the turn of the century or thereafter in the supply of Australia's power needs. 
One can only assume that the legislation gives the Minister the right to ask for this power and he has properly done so in the ordinary fashion. He has supported his request by comparison with other countries which have a far greater determination to stick to the free enterprise system than does the Minister for Minerals and Energy in the Australian Government. But the Minister has not produced any definite plan for the development of minerals in general in Australia and of the uranium industry in particular. In this way he is somewhat matched by the Opposition. I notice that  Senator Durack  did not read much of the uranium policy put out by his leader because there is nothing much in it. I have read the 5 points which he made and I thank him for providing me with them. It was courteous of him to do so. But, dealing factually with the document, he has listed 5 points. They are: Realistic export price level and royalties, satisfactory environmental assessment and protection procedures including the protection of national parks, satisfactory negotiations with Aboriginal groups and so on, the maintenance of a dominant position for Australian ownership and control, and international control requirements. 
Nowhere in any argument from either side so far can I see any real statement of Australia's future needs for uranium as an energy source. I think we are burying our heads in the sand if we assume that we can do without nuclear power in a country which is poorly endowed, in terms of our long term needs, with fossil fuels. So where is the policy which will provide the long term management of Australia's fuel resources and provide for the power that will come from Australia's own uranium deposits? It does not reside with the Opposition. It certainly is only a hint from the Government of Australia. 
We have had a number of particular mentions of it by the Minister himself who in 1973 indicated that he would give some indication of Government policy. He neglected to do so. He has been in office approaching 2 years. He is asking for the extension of his powers by this regulation and he still refuses to produce a plan. We in this House, and certainly the mining industry itself, stand waiting to react to the Government's policy which has not been revealed. Those parts of the industry with which I have been in contact have not been objecting to Government policy because they do not know what it is. Is it not a reasonable request to make of a government that is supposed to have developed policies over the years and to have sharpened and honed them in 
Opposition? Is it not reasonable to ask it in almost 2 years of government to produce its intentions? I think it is so reasonable that this regulation should be defeated and should remain defeated until the Government can produce its plans until those who have taken the initiative and found Australia's uranium resources know what is in store for them and know what proportion of their finds are economic to them. 
The Government of Australia is noted for its anti-mining bias which was revealed particularly in the Budget documents. The immediate response to that has been the retreat of shares in the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd below $5. If the Government wants a practical public assessment made by practical people in the market place there it is. There is a complete lack of knowledge of Government intentions in relation to mining and suspicions are built on that lack of knowldege of policy. As editions of the 'Australian Financial Review' of the last few days since the Budget will show, the view in the Australian mining industry is one of extreme pessimism. We have one more instance of how this pessimism is built. This particular Opposition policy announcement which I have mentioned at least offers support for the free enterprise system of mining development but it too does not in any way solve the situation. It offers no leadership at all in relation to the national need. It deals only with the mining industry. Certainly the 2 major aspects must be considered. So what is the Australian national attitude to be to the development and exploitation of our oranium reserves? 
Canada has taken action in this particular regard. Yesterday I was furnished with a copy of the most recent uranium policy in Canada, so I am informed. I would like to read to the Senate the brief details of the Canadian uranium policy. They are as follows: 
A formula will be established 'to enable each nuclear power reactor, operating, committed for construction or planned for operation 10 years into the future to operate on an average annual capacity factor of 80 per cent for 30 years from the start of the period '. 
Each mining company will have a reserve margin for domestic supply allocated to it by a Uranium Resource Appraisal Group within the Energy Department. This margin would be based on the 'ratio of each company's uranium resources to the total Canadian recoverable resources from all such companies estimated by the Uranium Appraisal Group'. 
The Croup will audit Canadian resources. Unlimited export will be permitted for such reserves in excess of the reserves calculated pursuant to the above formula. 
Export contract approvals are to be limited to a maximum of 10 years from the date of contract signing, with contingent approval possible for an additional S years. 
All terms of export contracts, including prices, will be subject to Government review and approval. 
The policy was unveiled now because it is expected that there will be 'some additional announcements on export contracts soon'. The Federal Energy Minister in Canada said: 'We wanted to get this in the open because we have reason to believe there are some big deals cooking now*. What a different attitude that is from the attitude taken by the Australian Government. The Canadian Government wanted to get its policy into the open because there are some big deals cooking now. There are some big deals cooking about Australia 's uranium resources and this Government does just the opposite to getting its policy into the open at this particular time. 
I wonder whether a certain amount of bait has been held out to the Senate, to the Parliament and to the mining companies in general to obtain general approval of this ordinance, because the Minister has been making public statements about the setting up in Australia of a uranium enrichment plant. South Australia has figured very largely in discussion about the siting of that plant. I believe that that is a very real possibility in the future because South Australia took a distinct lead in the early days of uranium and its development in this country. I would like to give the Senate a few facts about the beginnings of the uranium industry in Australia. South Australia's interest in uranium dates from World War II when  Sir Marcus  Oliphant, the present Governor of South Australia, advised the United Kingdom Government to spend funds on uranium exploration in South Australia, where the only deposits of uranium then known in Australia were located. Through the Commonwealth Government arrangements were made with the South Australia Mines Department to carry out this investigation, with the assistance of Commonwealth defence forces and other State and mining Commonwealth departments. 
The work failed to contribute materially to the war effort but the South Australian Government was encouraged to continue the search at government expense. The results led to the establishment of the Radium Hill mining project in 1954, producing uranium oxide yellow cake from the United States-United Kingdom combined development agency over a period of 7 years. The project was financed by the United Kingdom and the United States Governments. The efforts of the South Australian Government encouraged the search for uranium in other parts of Australia. The concurrent active participation in the search for uranium by the Commonwealth Government resulted in the establishment of the 
Rum Jungle operation in the Northern Territory about the same time as Radium Hill, and later the mines of Mary Kathleen in Queensland and on the South Alligator River in the Northern Territory, all of which had contracts to supply the United Kingdom or the United States government agencies. All these early uranium contracts terminated about 1964 as a result of stockpile sufficiency and lower cost supplies being available chiefly from Canada in respect of the United States and United Kingdom markets. 
Notable in this era was the South Australian Government's establishment of the research laboratories, now called the Australian Mineral Development Laboratories, which became the recognised authority for the investigation and design of uranium extraction processes which were incorporated in all the early uranium mining plants. The history of mining in Australia has shown clearly how the profits from mining have led directly or indirectly to the establishment of many of Australia's basic manufacturing industries. Broken Hill 's silver, lead and zinc led to the great iron and steel industry of this country. More recently the Weipa bauxite has led to the development of the aluminium industry. They are just 2 examples of the growth outside the particular initiating factor that occurs from the mining industry. Therefore, we in Australia and particularly in South Australia have an early history of initiation and honorable development of uranium discovery and its development to the marketable stage. If it is possible environmentally and for other physical reasons to have a uranium enrichment plant in Australia, South Australia would certainly like to share in its development. 
It is no good having these nebulous talks on the future planning of a specific- at this early stage still futuristic- plant as a type of lead-in to a general transfer of power to the Federal Minister without his revealing what he will do with that particular power. The result of the refusal to pass this ordinance may be a completely negative response from the Government. One would assume that the Government might say that there will not be a uranium industry. I can see a certain amount of pig-headedness in the Government's response, especially in the Budget- if I can digress to prove a point- because this Senate was blamed for an additional impost in postal and telephone charges because it had delayed the imposition of those charges for several months. If the Government has taken that vindictive attitude in relation to postal and telephone charges it could take a similar attitude to the denial of this ordinance. That is something, of course, which honourable senators will have to take into account when they vote on this matter. I still believe that the overriding factor is the lack of knowledge given to this House and to the country by a man who is known generally as the Strangler'. I might say that when I went to see the Minister about this matter I found him most courteous. I found him a very genial man to talk to - 
-He could be. On a personal level I could not fault the response of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  He was good enough to see me to try to take me as far as his lack of policy would let him. He and his Department certainly responded with as much information as he desired to give. I make no criticism on that particular point. I do criticise the Minister's lack of policy development but I do not relate that to the personal response I got from him. I wish to make that point clear. It seems to me that, therefore, we are involved in a negative sort of argument. I hope that the Senate will support  Senator Durack  and will disallow this ordinance. As I have said, that is a negative sort of argument. It is a reaction to the complete and earlier negativism of the Minister himself who will not provide the national Parliament or the mining industry with the information they require. I draw the attention of the Senate- perhaps  Senator Durack  has already done so- to the heading ' Reasons for Atomic Energy (Prescribed Substances) Regulations'. Under that heading, the Minister starts on a very sombre note when he says: 
Consistent with its Party platform, on the basis of which it was elected to office in 1972 and reconfirmed in that office last May, the Labor Government lays great emphasis on the need to approach the development of Australia's uranium industry in an orderly and coherent manner. 
What did he mean when he referred to the basis of his Party's platform? How far are we to view its development in relation to the uranium industry? The lack of information from the Minister means that we must assume that he will apply his Party's policies to the fullest extent. We must therefore view the effect of those policies to the fullest extent on the industry which we are discussing. 
It seems clear that the industry itself must respond. There are precedents around the world which the Minister has to support his action in asking for the ordinance. There are other precedents around the world illustrating to the industry that something is expected of it in relation to Australia's future needs for uranium. It seems to me that if the Government will not give a lead the industry must attempt to do so. It must scan what other countries have done in their national interest in relation to uranium development and must suggest methods whereby the industries in Australia can be involved in a viable, economic mining enterprise and still work within the national interest. They are not given that lead by the Liberal Party of Australia whose document is as nebulous and as lacking in real information as the Minister's approach. I have suggested to one member of the industry, who has been good enough to see me, that at this stage a good deal of responsibility devolves on the industry itself. I would hope the industry could collectively develop policies which it could suggest to the Opposition and to the Government and hopefully develop an economic enterprise which will preserve Australia's reserves through into the day when we must inevitably rely heavily on atomic energy. 
I intend to say little in support of my own inclusion in this list of delegates to the Constitutional Convention. But I think that I should right one or two misconceptions.  Senator Withers  said that the Australian Labor Party should include my nomination in that Party's list of delegates because it would, he inferred, be helping the underprivileged, under- privileged, the weak and the poor. I want to say that under-privileged I certainly am. Having spent half a lifetime in politics, I am also poor. However, I will not admit to weakness. I therefore divide  Senator Withers'  3 assessments and disagree with the one of weakness. But I think that  Senator Withers  is showing undue sensitivity, because what he does not understand is that I have been trying to help him ever since I have come into the Senate. He just does not recognise my brand of assistance. When he re-reads my speeches, which I am sure he will do in the few quiet moments which no doubt he has when he is travelling between Canberra and Western Australia, he will see the truth of the subject that I have tried to convey to him in my speeches in this chamber. 
I draw the attention of  Senator Withers  to the precedent which has been established in South Australia. Another member of the Liberal Movement in that State has been appointed by the State Government as a member of the Constitutional Convention. That member is a bitter opponent of the State Labor Government, yet he has won his place as a representative of that State at the Convention. I think that probably  Senator Withers,  who comes from a State which generates a great deal of talk about secession from the Commonwealth of Australia, might very well need alongside him someone from a similarly small State in order to ensure that he does not go right off the rails and secede from the Commonwealth of Australia. 
I support the motion that the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill be read a second time. I do so in the hope that it will be passed and that there will be support for the amendments which I have circulated for the inclusion of secret and compulsory postal ballots as a requirement for the making of a decision as to whether unions should amalgamate. I listened with interest to Senate Button who, I thought, quite skilfully defended the Bill that his Government has placed before the Senate. I say that he was skilful in the sense that, from what I heard of his speech, he did not  call the Government's  opponents union bashers in adopting the usual, typical defence that one hears from so many of the members of the Australian Labor Party and the union movement. This defence is used against those who criticise or involve themselves in union affairs from a right of centre political position. But despite his skill he was unable still to offer any further reason why the Senate should support the Bill in its present form. 
I was amused to hear him say that he did not want the industrial scene in Australia to develop into a situation in which 2 giant corporations were facing each other- industry on the one hand and the unions on the other hand. My mind immediately turned to the confrontation this week, if one could call it that, between the Government and the union movement in Australia and to the fact that the Government of Australia will go on bended knees to the union movement and ask it to co-operate in restraining the inflationary spiral in Australia. If there are not already 2 giant corporate structures, I would not know of any better description of the prevailing position that would fit  Senator Button's  requirements. 
This leads me to the proposition that the most powerful force in this country are the unions. They are far more powerful than the Government that tries to manage our affairs at this moment. They are far more powerful than the greatest corporation that manages industry or commerce in Australia. The result of confrontation between industry and unions in the last several years has invariably been the success of the union viewpoint. When honourable senators speak to those who manage the commercial ventures of Australia, they will know who regards the other as the most powerful sector in the community. It is a somewhat weak defence to say: Hands off the union movement. The shareholders in a company are not made to vote on the internal affairs of their company. Let us have the same freedom and lack  of interference  with the union movement. Let us look at the position of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd- the example used earlier- the Prices Justification Tribunal, the trade practices legislation and the consumer protection standards. I would ask  Senator Button  and his colleagues whether they would like similar legislation or legislation on a parallel form to be applied to the union movement in Australia. 
-Of course it has everything to do with it. For instance, if BHP and every other company in Australia were to say that they would adopt the use of secret, postal compulsory ballots, such as the amendments which I will move require, but that they would ask as a concession that the unions accept the same sort of oversight of the quality of the services they give to the community and the same oversight of what union officials are paid for their services, we know what the unions in Australia would say. The unions would not accept restrictions and oversight parallel to those which companies in Australia have to accept. The comparison has been very poorly made. It is a fact that the one great, last undisciplined grouping of power in Australia is in the hands of the unions. It has as great an effect on this country as the national Government of Australia. It is outside the control of the electors of Australia. This is the great argument that rages in the community today as the Government of Australia goes cap in hand to the unions to ask for their cooperation. I certainly would not approve of this Bill without the safeguard that every unionist should be required to vote in a secret postal ballot. 

 Senator Button went on to say that we on the Opposition side did not understand union affairs. I certainly do not understand as much about union affairs as he does. But the honourable senator presumes wrongly if he believes that we have had no experience with them. We know of very well run unions whose leadership is a model for the rest of Australia and we know of some very badly run unions. I have developed that story in another parliament in Australia and I will not bore the Senate with the same description of the shameful affairs of some unions in this country, some of which, lamentably, are in my home State of South Australia. Their affairs should be subject to the scrutiny of the police in the State in which they operate, but they are not because these matters have been deliberately kept out of the hands of the police. Therefore, there are all standards in the union movement and some of them are less than desirable. But the basis of this Bill is such that it cannot be supported unless the power over unions is widened. What is more democratic in this community than to involve every member of the union in one of the most major decisions he will make in his life as a member of that union? 

 Senator Greenwood in addressing himself to this Bill raised a number of objections and I suppose I would agree with almost every one of them. I could have no disagreement with him in the way that he has gone through the Bill and pointed to its various defects, but I would suggest to him that nearly every one of his objections to the Bill is overcome by the amendments which I have circulated in this House. I would suggest that it would be better for the progress of union amalgamation in Australia, which most people in this country seem to agree is desirable in some form, if the Opposition were to adopt a positive view and try to amend this legislation as it ought to be amended according to its viewpoint, and to put the onus back on the Government on a particularly penetrating point which I will mention in a moment.  Senator Greenwood  said: 'Let the membership decide.' I could not agree more fully with him and that is the view I have taken in relation to the amendments which will be made to this Bill. 
In South Australia we have come through one of the most debilitating strikes we have seen for many a year. Because the Transport Workers Union of Australia in South Australia and the Waterside Workers' Federation of Australia, South Australian Branch, could not agree as to who should handle the loading of steel at the new steel wharf in South Australia, 10,000 tons of that commodity which was in short supply then was denied to South Australian manufacturers and it cost the South Australian community, I have no doubt, some millions of dollars, not simply because a certain amount of steel was not sold in my State but because orders were not accepted by industry because it could not fulfil them. Let me take a little further the story of that fruitless and stupid strike which went on for so long and which the Labor movement in South Australia made no early attempt to settle. The upshot was that the picket line was broken by about a dozen drivers of the Transport Workers Union with, of course, practically the whole community of South Australia backing them. A meeting of the Transport Workers Union was held in the Trades Hall some 3 weeks ago at which 49 people attended and a decision was made at that meeting to expel the two leading drivers who broke the picket line of that 5 months old strike at the Adelaide wharves. The decision was made by 49 people out of a reputed membership of 5,000. 
It is interesting to note how the affairs of this union were conducted. It was deliberately stated at the meeting that no assessment as to who was a member of the union would be made at the meeting because legal action which possibly could be taken against the decision to expel the 2 members who broke the picket line would not be successful if members of the union who attended that meeting were not known by name. The person who informed me of the proceedings of that meeting was not a member and simply went in off the street and observed all proceedings at that meeting. It was interesting to note also that the next day it was claimed that 110 people had attended the meeting and made the various decisions whereas in fact 49 attended. That is an example of the practices of those unions that are as badly led as the Transport Workers Union is led in South Australia. It is leadership of low standard and it is regarded as being of low standard by every good unionist in my State who knows of it. Can we condone those sorts of activities and the use of devious methods of union manipulation by a few stirrers at the top? In this instance they did not require even proof of financial membership for admission to that union meeting. If those standards are applied to union amalgamation we will see a long period of very harmful dissension in the union movement. 
I would have thought that there would be no objection from a Labor Party which believes in compulsory voting in all parliamentary elections and which, I understand, believes in compulsory voting in local government elections and will force people to vote and fine them if they do not, to the application of that principle to the union movement which in many ways is more powerful in this country than the Government itself. I would like to think that the Liberal Party of Australia could drop its insistence on voluntary voting. I do not want to do the Party an injustice but I understand that it is part of the Liberal Party's policy. I wish that that Party could be realistic and understand that compulsory voting is here and that we will get a far more democratic answer from the community if we are perhaps a little less emphatic about the democratic way in which people can or cannot have the right to vote. My own Party has a policy of voluntary voting and I use my right as a member of a liberal party to vote as I see fit on this issue and propose policies as I see fit to suit this issue. Certainly something has to be done in Australia to take the democratic way out of the impasse which we are in, in which unions outside the electors' delegated authority can run this country in very large measure. The one method that can be democratically used is to apply the same voting procedures to major union decisions as apply to the election of members of Parliament. 
I would draw the attention of honourable senators to a notice in this morning's media that the New South Wales Government is going to move for compulsory voting at local government elections. This is certainly a significant move, if it is carried through, for the non-Labor side of politics and should, I believe, give courage to those who are still drawn to the very liberal but, I believe, theoretical approach to voting which is that in all cases it should be voluntary. The extension of elector control to the last great, undisciplined power grouping in Australia is essential. This Bill deals only with a fraction of the decisions that would be made by the union movement but it gives an important opportunity to this House to provide for the widest possible involvement of union members in their union affairs, particularly on this important decision. I believe that the greatest safeguard that we have in Australia in times of crisis is the overall opinion of the great number of people who live in this country. The inflationary scene today would be handled fairly expeditiously if the opinion of the Australian public was heeded by its various leaders. last night I attended a meeting in the Unley Town Hall of 600 people who came to hear a professor of economics define the points of the Adelaide Plan, as it is known in South Australia. That meeting was held under the auspices of the Liberal Movement. There is very great concern in the community about and a recognition of the gravity of the economic situation we face. The Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has used as one of his supporting points for the passage of this Bill the need to prevent inter-union competition in price rises and claims for wage increases. I am sure that he would be backed by the public of Australia, including a majority of unionists, if his Government had the courage to act according to its general desires. In this instance he has an opportunity to accept an amendment which is thoroughly in line with his political beliefs on compulsory voting. He cannot argue against the fullest extension of the democratic process that every person should vote in a decision which affects the general community at large. 
I ask the members of the Liberal and Country Parties in the Senate to allow this Bill to go through the second reading stage so that we may make a very significant advance in our approach to the great problem of union control and union development in Australia and so that we can make a very great advance by inserting into this 
Bill a principle which I believe would, soon after, be widely represented in other legislation affecting conciliation and arbitration. I support the Bill on the proviso that I will be able to move my amendments. 
I will speak only briefly in this debate. I support the Bills, but I really speak to the amendment which seeks to add words to the motion for the second reading. I ask the mover not to proceed with that amendment. I will give my reason. It does not in any way intend to alter the Bill. It is a Bill which, I suppose, has the undivided support of the House and yet the amendment introduces divisive comments as to its passage. I do not disagree with the essential political message contained in the amendment but if we were to pursue this principle of adding to every desirable Bill some divisive political matter on another subject we would create division over a great section of the legislation that proceeds through the Senate and which is generally approved by the total Senate. On that principle I cannot support the amendment, not that I disagree with its intentions or its expressions in other spheres and realms when looking at government performances. But I do not believe that it belongs attached to the motion for the second reading of this Bill. 
I join with other senators in welcoming the report of the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control. I appreciate what  Senator McAuliffe,  as  Chairman  of the 
Committee, has brought before the Senate. However, it is a most convenient crutch for those who took the action which threw the Bills out of this chamber and prevented other senators from trying to amend them as they had desired to do. The most pertinent part of the report by  Senator McAuliffe  which I have read is on page 2. 1 shall refer to it in passing. The report states: 
The Committee adhered to the program it had established and was in a position to report by 12 March as requested by the Senate. It is unfortunate that the events following the prorogation of the Parliament prevented the Committee from presenting a report to the Senate. 
However it is gratifying to note that the AIDC and NIF Bills 1974 which were introduced in the other place on 8 April drew heavily on the issues raised in evidence d  during  the Committee 's public hearings. 
Not having been here during those times, I take from the report that it had been concluded at that stage and was ready for presentation to the House but the Committee was prevented from presenting it by the prorogation of Parliament. As both sides of politics in this chamber had members on that Committee it seems to me to be quite without understanding that members on this side of the House could not have proceeded to move the amendments which they may have wished to make to the Bills during the Committee stages in the Senate. The Chairman's report clearly says that the Committee was ready to present the report to the Senate. My understanding is that this side of the House said that it could not move along those lines because there was no formal presentation to the Senate. If that is the case all I can say is that Parliament has a hardening of the arteries and had better do something about it. 
I give credit to  Senator Rae  for where he got his particular amendment, but is he saying that his Party room could not decide to move certain amendments here because those matters were included in a report of the Senate Committee which had not been presented? 
All I can say is that there is certainly hardening of the arteries of the system. It certainly would not have prevented me from moving what I would have wanted to move so far as Standing Orders would have allowed me to do so. I would like some clarification of whether that is officially the case in the Senate. 
Am I to understand that because a matter is referred to a select committee no other member can move in respect of lt in this House? 
-There seems to be some confusion again on the Opposition side. 
Well, let us clear it up. Which part of page 3 are we looking at? 
The second paragraph reads: 
In view of the events that have occurred the Committee is in a position where it can take no further action . . . 
I did not say that the Committee should take action. I said that the Liberal Party should have taken action. 
-I go back to the earlier stages of my speech where I said that this was a crutch for the Opposition to get out of the criticism of having delayed the Bills in this Senate. There were senators in this House who wanted to move amendments to those Bills and wanted to see them improved and altered. I was one of them and yet we were denied an opportunity to move those amendments. I have no idea whether what I wanted to move was in the Committee 's report or not. As I understand it, I would not have been prevented from moving my amendments. The Opposition is therefore using the inability of the Committee to report as a crutch to get out of the criticism that it delayed the Bills. 
It was mentioned that the Government had set up the road towards a double dissolution. That is an unsupported statement. Every statement of every leading member of the Opposition parties in the other House clearly sets out who was responsible for setting up the double dissolution. The Opposition parties were responsible for that move. 
As I understood the honourable senator, he said that the Opposition set up various measures. If I have misunderstood him I apologise to him. 
-Then I withdraw my remarks about the honourable senator. I go back to my point that the delay was caused essentially by the action of the Opposition in causing a double dissolution. They therefore bear heavily on the reasons why the Bills were delayed. I do not agree with the general run for cover which is being taken by Opposition speakers who are using this report as a crutch for explaining why they should not have proceeded with the consideration of the Bills and as an excuse for not finding sufficient means to amend the Bills according to its desires. Opposition senators surely must have known what their representations were to the Committee. Having fully considered the matter, whether the Committee has so decided, according to them, or not, they surely must have known what their parties wanted to have done to those particular Bills. 
-Very well. They need not have referred to the evidence. They knew what their parties wanted to do to those Bills. If a party did not know what it wanted to do to them it was ineffective, but it surely must have known, and if it did then it used the Committee's report as a device not to proceed. I do not agree with the general tenor of debate on this side of the House which uses this as a crutch to get out of the censure of public opinion. 
I commend what has been said by speakers in the debate from this side of the Senate. I join with the general sentiment they have expressed that it represents a cost increasing factor for postal charges to rise as they do. However, we all recognise that they rise because of the general inflationary situation. When I joined with other honourable senators in defeating the first attempt to increase postal charges, I did so on the basis that was clearly enunciated from this side of the Senate chamber, namely, that the Government was not aware of the impact of inflation on Australia and needed to understand that impact in a particularly effective way. I believe that the denial of the first increase in postal charges did bring home to the Government the very deep feeling that members on the Opposition side have in relation to uncontrolled increases in costs in the community. 
I agree with  Senator Durack  that Government members are slow thinkers. I also agree entirely with his statements that they still are doing nothing about inflation. In fact, they could be taking action which is still greatly increasing the rate of inflation in Australia. I have no doubt that that matter will be dealt with in the Budget debate. 
Having said that, I state that I also join with what  Senator Durack  said in relation to the blame which is now cast on the Senate for the additional increases which are to be applied in the Post Office. Of course, the Post Office must live. It must obtain funds to maintain its services. There is no way that any long-term denial can be made of the economic facts of the matter. It is in the general context of the Government's failure to grapple with the economic problems of Australia that the Post Office must, as every other instrumentality must, increase its charges. The public will pay an inordinate amount in a very disturbed economic situation for the services which are rendered to them by the public sector as well as the private sector. 
 I want to raise very briefly a smaller but nevertheless important item. That is the subject which has caused so much controversy in this fair city of Canberra, the matter of the tower on Black Mountain. The fight that was mounted to prevent its construction has now been lost, and we find daily some new dimension being added to the now visible base of the tower which is being built on Black Mountain. The contradictions that accompanied the proposal to construct the tower and the determination of the Government to proceed with its construction are rather staggering. We find that according to the records of the Post Office some 115,000 applications for telephone connections have not been satisfied in Australia. Yet the Post Office is proceeding with a project which, on the latest information provided to me, is to cost $7. 17m. With the rapid rate of inflation which now besets us, one can hazard a guess as to what the final cost will be. I suppose that it would be fair to say that it must be at least $8m. But let us take the amount of $7. 17m which is the figure on which these sums are projected. 
I must admit at this stage that I do not know whether it is a fixed price contract or not. So I feel that I should not spoil the argument by proceeding to deal with that question. But I suspect that  Senator Jessop  is right in the inference that he makes. But I predicate on the figure of $7. 17m which was supplied to me. The submission by the Australian Post Office to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works on 13 June 1972 stated: 
Because the Government has given the Post Office a business as well as a service role, the proposal incorporates provision for the recovery of the annual costs of the structure. In this connection the earning capacity of the main visitor facilities is vital to the proposal. 
It then went on to list the estimated annual costs. Without boring the Senate by referring to a division of these costs, I merely indicate that they total about $535,000. A realistic assessment under today's increased cost structure by those who have approached me- and I believe their sums are fairly reliable- shows the provision of $170,000 for control staff and maintenance and $648,000 as interest on"$7.2m at a rate of 9 per cent per annum, making a total of $818,000. I am told that this does not include provision for depreciation or amortisation of the project. 
The submission by the Post Office showed that income would be derived from fees paid by visitors to the tower, from rental paid by concessions- and I understand that a restaurant is included in these concessions- and from the rental of technical facilities. The income derived from those sources averaged out at $550,000 a year. Paragraph 7.6 of the submission predicted that income from the fees paid by visitors would be $240,000 in 1975 and $662,000 in 1990 and that capital expenditure would be completely amortised at the end of 30 years by income from lookout fees alone. The prediction is made that if the costs are to be met, the total number of visitors to the tower would have to be 1,600,000 a year at a fee of 50c a head. In 1973, 1,200,000 people visited Canberra, of whom 600,000 visited the Australian War Memorial and 250,000 visited Parliament House. People are not charged fees at either of those establishments. I suppose some people would almost want to be paid to come to this place at various times. 
The figures are not very encouraging. The earlier figures I gave related to the previous cost assessment. But on the assumption that 100,000 Canberra residents visit the tower every year, the number of tourists to Canberra needed to make the tower financially viable would be 3,750,000 a year, because not every visitor to Canberra would go to the tower. We are getting into astronomical figures. This only emphasises the validity of much of the argument that was first advanced against the construction of this tower. I say quite frankly, as a complete layman in technical matters, that I was pretty impressed by the arguments that were put to me and by the type of person who conveyed those arguments. Those people had spent many months working it all out. I can only say that there has been no real answer that I can see from the Minister to the charge that the tower is not needed technically, at any rate, and that it will probably be superseded in the very near future- and according to one representation made to me the points of transmission on the tower will be 12 feet higher than the existing towers. If that is the case, the Post Office is building a tourist tower. What is the Post Office doing building a tourist tower- using funds which we all know are very short in this community and are available at a very high rate of interest? What is the Post Office doing building a tourist tower and restaurant whilst there are 1 15,000 telephones still to be connected? Surely the Federal Minister has not taken a leaf out of the book of his colleague the Premier of South Australia who, in any particular economic crisis in our State- and they occur pretty frequently under his management- tends to go off and buy a restaurant in the name of the South Australian Government. For the edification of honourable senators I will be quite happy some day to list the number of restaurants in which the South Australian Government is now involved. Surely the Federal Minister is intelligent enough to see through those sorts of public stances that his colleague takes in that great public relations effort which is called the South Australian Government. 
To return to the proposed increased postal charges, I recognise that they must proceed. I also recognise that they are only a symptom of the general economic climate in Australia and of the Government's failure to grapple with the present economic situation. But I say now in lament, because the construction of the tower is proceeding, that it seems to me to be a completely wrong-headed view of priorities to build a tourist tower and restaurant on Black Mountain when there are more than 100,000 telephones still to be connected in Australia. 
I am a little puzzled as to why the amendment is being moved, in the light of  Senator Maunsell  's earlier statement and his insistence, when speaking during the second reading stage of the cognate debate, that the Australian Wool Corporation should have the utmost independence. It seems to me that if it is to have the utmost independence we are putting a discipline in its way. I must freely admit that I am not familiar with the Federal Audit Act and with just what the trust account provision means, but I remind  Senator Maunsell  that State trust funds are completely at the mercy of a State government. I went through a period in Opposition when the State Government used a very considerable percentage of the State's trust funds to bolster its deficit. That action created a great deal of uncertainty among those many dozens of organisations that had their funds lodged in trust with the State Government. Really, I do not know anything about the Federal Act and how it operates in comparison with that State Act. I assume that the same thing can happen here. I remind  Senator Maunsell  that, at least on a State basis, trust funds are not exactly what they seem to be if the State concerned uses them to bolster its own failing finances. 
But I take the major point made by the Minister in relation to the independence of the Australian Wool Corporation. The Minister has given what I take to be a water tight assurance that the funds will continue to be identified. They will be placed in the particular account concerned in the name of and under the control of the Wool Corporation. That being the case, I really cannot see that it is an additional safeguard to the Audit Act and the discipline that it might place on the Wool Corporation, that it is a better balance for the Wool Corporation to have that discipline instead of the flexibility that it would have if the funds were entirely within its control. I must say that I regard the Minister's assurances as being of some importance in this matter. I take them seriously. I believe that he has made them in all good faith. I would think that in supporting the amendment we are not really helping the Corporation. I would still like to listen to further argument, if there is any. But I am not convinced on the merits of the case that the amendment should be supported. 
The Budget has raised a great deal of controversy in the community as to whether it will take up the slack of the rapidly growing number of unemployed or whether it will add to the depressing scene in industry and commerce and create further unemployment. In any case, one thing is quite certain and that is that the Australian people do not know what it will do. They do not believe that the Australian Government knows what it will do. Last week 700 South Australians turned up at a meeting at the Unley Town Hall on a very cold night to listen to just this subject dealt with by one of the professors in Adelaide who was a founder of the so-called Adelaide Plan. Certainly, the Australian Labor Party projects to the community a state of great confusion. This was evidenced by further interaction which was caused by the introduction of the Budget. In response the Liberal Party from the opposition side can offer no solution to the economic problems of Australia. However, 2 things are certain in this confused picture. One is that the Government is proceeding idealogically with its Budget and is adding to its general administrative program for the socialisation of Australia so that we will see more unbridled union power exerted on the industrial scene. I refer to the rapid socialisation which is evidenced by the key phrase in the Budget which has been dealt with by most speakers prior to this point. 
Obviously the Budget is a document which is seen to transfer economic power from the private sector to the public sector. Since its introduction we have seen very alarming reports, almost day by day, of how the Commonwealth is intruding into State matters. Even this evening on the much publicised controversy of the freeway in Sydney- disregarding the rights or the wrongs of that freeway- on television the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  was threatening the New South Wales Government with a general cancellation of its road funds because he disagreed with the plan for the freeway development which is now the subject of argument in the State. We have seen attempts in this chamber to pass an all-embracing roads Bill- of course, very successful, despite the rather minimal amendments which were effected. In recent times we have seen that the Federal Government wants to get into the railway business in States where it has been absent in the past. In this morning's newspaper we have seen that a hospital project is to be taken over by Canberra. The Federal Government will go it alone at Sunshine in Victoria. The inference we get quite directly from this is that the States are dead as far as hospitals, roads and railways are concerned. 
Yes, under this Government. Of course it will take a brave government in the future to completely reverse the trends. It is not easy simply to put back or to improve on the present scheme by another ideological move from another government. So in 3 main areas within a few days and weeks this Government has moved to take the State role. I say that it is quite vindictive when its purposes and plans are crossed, as was evidenced by the remarks of the Federal Minister,  Mr Uren,  tonight. The speed of ideological progress by the Government is rather staggering. Whilst it may be divided upon itself as to a proper plan to lead Australia, it does not seem to be divided upon itself in the application of its principles of socialisation. It is proceeding apace in that way. As I have said, in industry we have seen the tremendous scene of a government going cap in hand to the unions of Australia and ostensibly at least framing a Budget to capture their approval for some social contract or for some other factor in the future. I will be interested in further evidence of what Labor members of Parliament think about these matters. I saw a report in today's Australian' of  Senator Button  who was speaking in Melbourne. The report stated: 
Industrial unrest, power struggles and militancy now being experienced in Australia are healthy signs . . . 
The collapse of companies like Mainline and Cambridge Credit were predictable . . . 

 Senator Button, who was elected in May, said people should not be frightened of the apparent disorder as it was all a pan of society's growth. 
I wonder what the unemployed, the rate of which is supposed to be running at 4,000 a week, think of this desirable disruption. The report ends rather interestingly. It states: 

 Senator Button criticised union participation in management. 'The idea is to put a unionist on the board to make it look good. But nothing ever comes of it, there is no change, ' he said. 'We should work toward the position of Yugoslavia where workers elect the management and run the company. ' 
At least  Senator Button  does not hide his ideological course. I suppose he thinks that the takeover of the various State facilities which I have mentioned so far is not going fast enough. I think that certainly would be his view. But all of this has meant that there has been a general feeling of attack upon industry. That feeling is widely held in industry. I have had the chance- as I am sure a lot of Government members have- to talk to commerce and industry which is always willing to talk about its future and its place and plans within the Australian scene. It is one continuous picture of belief that this Government is attacking its very existence and that the very enterprise ethic is under siege and will be destroyed if  Mr Hawke  and a few other gentlemen can have their way with their plans. This has had a very undesirable effect on the psychology of the Australian industrial community. This rapacious free enterprise which is so often referred to in derogatory terms by some Federal Ministers of course is not always the great capitalist that the Labor Party seems to make it out. It is in fact capitalist without profit in many cases. If honourable senators care to read the report of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd of 1974 I am sure they will find undisputable figures contained in that very reliable report. I suggest that they read under the heading 'Tax Bill' because it states: 
We finished up earning after tax only lc for every dollar we have invested in the steel industry ... in downtoearth terms, 'no one ever got a bucket of water from a dry well'. We don't intend that the steel industry in Australia should dry up, but we need the co-operation of all to ensure that it doesn't. 
What a margin it has as a steel industry! It has a 1 per cent profit after tax. That is supposed to encourage the rest of Australia to invest in Australia's future. The report continues: 
While most of our investment is in steel, for this year most of our profits come from petroleum, mining and from our many manufacturing industries. 
As a side issue to this discussion on BHP, it might be a good thing if  Mr Connor,  the Minister for Minerals and Energy, were to read how much steel is used in various categories of operation of Australian industrial production. He will find that 21.97 per cent of the steel production in Australia was used in the mining industry. This was the largest share of any segment of Australian operators. Certainly, the revitalising of the mining industry will be extremely important to the future of that company. I use that example to illustrate publicly what has been put to me privately many times in the last few weeks. Companies are facing the prospect of earning either completely, minimal profits, which is not the slightest encouragement to them to invest further funds in Australia, or they are making a loss. Let us not be fooled by the number of favourable results which come out from time to time. We ought to be happy and very pleased that there are some successful companies in Australia. If I were working for any company in Australia I certainly would like to be working for one with a high profit margin rather than one with a low profit margin. I am sure that most employees in Australia believe that at the present time. So the scene in Australia is one where the Federal Government is known to be pursuing its ideological cause. 
Industry and commerce believe that they are under attack and in many instances they are looking to invest their funds outside Australia. The Government would be aware of that. The relevant Ministers would know from the letters on their desks- and I know those letters are there- that many export industries are ceasing their export programs that they have developed through many years of hard work, encouraged by the incentives offered by previous governments. There is a lack of confidence in the Government due to the contradictory statements of its Ministers such as those concerning the tax on unearned income which was altered even before the Budget has been passed by this Parliament. The spectacle of Caucus divided has emphasised the lack of leadership by the Government. It has highlighted and outlined the basic weakness inherent in the discipline Caucus has over its members of Parliament, a discipline which gives power to every member of its parliamentary team in the consideration of legislation. It is impossible to maintain a proper Cabinet system of government under a Labor Administration. This has been proved from time to time during previous attempts by Labor to govern this country. It is not possible for Cabinet to make a decision, to have that decision placed before 
Caucus and torn about, then to accept something less and go to the Australian people and say: 'We are confidently governing you'. The caucusing of Labor binds every Labor member of Parliament to Caucus decisions regardless of what happens in either House of Parliament. 
I was greatly distressed when I heard that the Liberals were moving to a harder line in this way, especially in the election of their Cabinet. I have a personal view on this point because of my past experience. I was pleased to read reports that they had moved away from that hard line and disciplinarian attitude in the election of their Cabinet. They are moving back to the system of a more effective Cabinet government which contrasts so strongly with the disciplinary caucusing which is destroying Cabinet government in Australia at present. 
I repeat that the Australian people certainly do not know where they are going in this scene. Certainly the Government is not giving them any confidence. Senators who care to read the economic journals in the Parliamentary Library and learn the economic facts stated by many economists in Australia will find that in one fashion or another all economists agree that the union system in Australia, which is the last great power system outside the control of the elector, has to be brought one way or another into the general planning of the economic progress of this country. Whichever way they express it, whichever way some economists like to hide that opinion perhaps because of their own politics or because of fear of offending a great section of the community, that is what they are saying. The relevant journals are easily obtainable from the Parliamentary Library by every senator who cares to read them. Until the union movement is brought under control in the sense that companies and individuals in the community are under control we will not see the period of stability which everyone is looking for. 
A number of great inequities has been created by the Budget. Previous speakers in this debate have referred to them. The application of the capital gains tax in the form proposed will create very great inequities. Whilst it is another illustration of the failure of the Government to provide Cabinet leadership, at least the retreat from one aspect of the unearned income tax was some measure of relief from the very severe impact it would have had on numbers of the Australian community. 
I was very sorry to learn that the 2 proposals put forward by my Party were not contained in the Budget. I believe that working parents who must pay for child minding services should be able to claim those service charges as an income tax deduction. I also believe that there is absolute merit in the view that individual employees paying transport charges to work should be able to claim those charges as a tax deduction just as a person running a company or a professional business can claim them. Those indisputable claims, in spite of their equity, have not been included in the Budget. The Government could well have considered such a miserly return to the public out of the immense wealth now accruing to it because of the inflationary effects on salaries and wages in the taxation scale. 
I wish now to raise some specific matters which concern South Australia. I referred earlier to the defence vote which I believe is being kept down to a deplorable level in view of the inflationary effects and the need even to maintain the payment of salaries to members of the defence forces. It is obvious that some defence cuts will be made. South Australia has within its borders one of the most important defence facilities in this country. I believe that it is under severe threat of being dismantled by this Government because of economies being made in the defence vote. The Government is using the defence vote as one part of its program to take the brunt of economies while it is increasing rapidly its appropriations for other parts of its expenditure program. I refer, for instance, to the vote for research and development which is mainly to be expended in the maintenance and development work of the Weapons Research Establishment based at Salisbury, Woomera and adjacent areas. 
It is a most important facility in the sense that it maintains a continuing expertise in all scientific aspects of weapon technology. It is very difficult indeed to assemble rapidly the type of team employed there in the event of an unforeseen emergency, or even at the time of an emergency which can be foreseen only a few years away. This vote has been increased from $59.8m to $67. 5m. By my subtraction that is an increase of $7.7m. I would like to inform the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  who is handling this debate for the Government that the increase is shown as $7.6m. I assume that someone has made a mistake in his calculations. There is an error of $100,000 in the table and I would like the Minister when he speaks in this debate to tell me why in the table the difference between $59.8m and $67. 5m is shown as $7. 6m. I am sure that it is not a deliberate mistake. It is too small to be deliberate but it needs correcting if the table is to be left on the file. 
The facts of life are that in 1973-74 the vote for the research and development section of the defence appropriation was $59.8m, which was an increase of $3m or 5.3 per cent. That happened in a year when the inflation rate was running at about 9V4 per cent. This year the vote is increased by $7.7m from $59.8m to $67.5m, an increase of 12.8 per cent in a year in which we can assume that the inflation rate is about 22 per cent. It would appear that there is a very deliberate attempt to run down one of the most important defence technology groupings in the southern hemisphere. I do not know why we are in the business of dismantling such a grand assembly of technologists and scientists. They have to their credit quite a number of important defence mechanisms. One of the offshoots- it is only an offshoot but a very important one which is known all over the world- is the copying machines of which all honourable senators now make much use. The dry copying machines were developed on the processes of 2 major research people at the Weapons Research Establishment in Adelaide. Those patents are well used world wide. 
I want to be a little specific about this matter. I can say to the Minister for Agriculture that the members of this valuable assembly of staff at the Weapons Research Establishment are extremely concerned that they are taking the brunt of the economies in the defence vote because they are not front line operators. It is one of the most shortsighted moves in any government's administration that I can think of. I will read for the benefit of the Senate a starting paragraph in a draft submission on this issue. It read: 
The Weapons Research Establishment group is very concerned about the viability of Australia's Defence Scientific Service due to it being allowed to run down in an ad hoc manner by wastage. We consider that, from a national point of view, Australia 's defence organisation must remain viable to be ready to meet any likely demands upon it. We believe that there is a great risk of allowing the ADSS to run down in times of little apparent threat which will result in the ADSS not being able to respond when required. 
The key point is 'not being able to respond when required'. I read another quote. There is a heading in the Easter Saturday 1974 edition of the Australian': 
Five million dollar radio telescope antenna sold as scrap. 
The article states: 
One of Australia's key radio-telescopes, valued at $Sm, has been sold for scrap and a top astronomy team has been disbanded, in a major scientific scandal. 
The bungle has created a big gap in Australia's top-line radio-astronomy research that scientists believe will never be repaired. 
The 26-metre (8 fi) diameter radio-telescope 'dish', near Woomera, South Australia, was offered as a  gin  to the Federal Government. 
But the Government last year declined to accept the offerand its owners, the United States National Aeronautics and Space Administration had to sell it for scrap. 
That is a disgraceful state of affairs. One wonders whether there was some political bias on the part of this Government because the telescope was offered by the United States space agency. Did the Government feel that it was ideologically unable to accept the offer? If it had been made by China or the Shah of Iran, the Government might have accepted it, but the Government could not accept it from the States. 
It is good on the arts but it is not too good on radio telescopes. There is more. I do not want to quote the whole of this letter. I do not want to embroil individuals in this matter. I quote 2 points which I think are sufficient to amplify how serious this matter is. The letter was written to  Mr Clyde  Cameron, the Minister for Labor and Immigration, by a person deeply involved in the operation of this telescope. I shall read an extract. It is not taken out of sequence. It reads: 
Unfortunately the NASA tracking stations are run by the Department of Supply. Our work has been completely unclassified. Since 1967 we have published about 25 papers in scientific journals and some of them have sparked editorial comment in journals like 'Science'. We even got mentioned by Walter Sullivan in the 'New York Times' on one occasion. In Australia, we were virtually unknown because of the repressive policy of the Department in matters of local Press comment. Overseas we were well known because of our scientific publications in American and European journals, and science writers in overseas newspapers are, of course, much more on the ball than their Australian counterparts. So we suffered local anonymity and overseas fame. I have just been accepted as a candidate for D.Sc. degree at an English university and with a little luck I should get the degree soon. If I do, I will be the most highly qualified and least heeded scientist in the Public Service. I do not include CSIRO. 
The Minister wrote back to this gentleman. I will not bore the Senate by reading more of that letter. Sufficient has been said to introduce, isolate and completely explain the subject. This is part of the Minister's reply. I will not read all of it. The portion which I will read is indicative of the remainder of the letter. The Minister replied: 
You have obviously enjoyed 7 years of near ideal conditions for your radioastronomy research, and I can understand your disappointment at the forthcoming changes. 
This letter was written on 30 January 1974. It continues: 
However, the facts are that my Department must operate on a smaller budget than formerly, and research in general and the Weapons Research Establishment in particular have to share in the economies. 
The economies which are referred to in the Budget and which are so lightly passed over because they are impersonal are revealed in all their detail in that Minister's letter. He is a senior Minister. He must make economies. He does not have the money. He cuts the basis of the future development of Australia's defence. The cuts do not affect men in the field who can be trained in one or two years, depending upon the scientific needs in their training and their capacities. He is cutting major scientific study areas, some of which could not be replaced in 10 years. So this Government will continue to increase by 43 per cent the vote for the arts, and other provisions by even more. The Government will reduce the basis not of next year's defence but of the defence for which it says it is planning- in 1 5 years. If the Government means anything when it talks of its program for 15 years, which, I think, is the lead time which the Government mentions before there is any possible danger of aggression to Australia, it would maintain this vital defence development area for this country. 
-A few things have been said about that matter, but without opening up old wounds which could be controversial let me say that the Australian Labor Party did not last long in office in peace because it tried to keep the war going in Australia. You know why the Chifley Government was run out of office. It was because it would not give the Australians the few things for which they fought. It might have done well in the war but it could not manage the peace any more than the present Government can manage the peace at the moment. 
This leads to the fuel and energy position in Australia which is deplorable. It is as deplorable as the run down in South Australia of the scientific research section of our defence forces. It is because of the complete inability of this Government and its Minister for Minerals and Energy to produce any cohesive leadership in the Australian mining and minerals scene. What have we got? We now have 15 years supply of oil, at the most. I think it is about 15 years. Is it 10 or 12? We have a limited amount of oil for future supplies in Australia. Even now we are importing some parts of our petroleum needs. We are not encouraging any significant new oil searches in Australia because no one knows whether they will get any benefit from any finds which they make because profit is a dirty word. Even one per cent is not a desirable thing to some Federal Ministers. 
-Your Government probably spent more on the visit of the Shah of Iran to Australia than it will spend this year on solar energy research in Australia. It should get its priorities right. For the benefit of  Senator McAuliffe,  South Australia has another valuable research group, based at Flinders University. It is doing some very good and basic research on the development of solar power for lower grade heating of homes which is its only foreseeable benefit. 
-Talk to the scientists if you know more about it. All I can say is that they are being starved of funds. They are not getting the money they need. They are being starved of a few tens of thousands of dollars. This Government that can spread millions for its pet programs and antagonise the States in so doing will not disburse funds for the basic future development of this country. At the same time we have seen in the last week or so leaders on the United States scene warning of the very grave dangers facing us in respect of the fuel and energy resources of the world and telling us how they are concentrated in a few hands. 
I will come to that point in a moment. The Australian Government should be reacting in an emergency sense to ensure that our fuel needs are secured for the future. One of the things one would do automatically would be to upgrade greatly the search for oil in this vast continent. The Minister for Minerals and Energy has not approached the producers in the latest and most glamorous fuel area, the uranium deposits of Australia, on any reasonable basis of negotiation. He has not told them that they can sell one-third of the deposits overseas and retain two-thirds in Australia; he has not told them that they can sell a quarter overseas and retain three-quarters in Australia. He has made no approach to them on the basis of any minimal development except on a tonnage of 3,000 tons in connection with a governmentpromoted processing plant. If that is to be the attitude of the Federal Minister Australia will go confidently into the next decade or so knowing that it will have no new discoveries of oil. It will have to invite the Shah to come here a few more times because it would appear that the Government is more interested in buying material from him than in discovering what we have at home. 
-This is a tremendous failing. Did I hear the honourable senator say that I am a racist? I would like to know how the Government selects its priorities as to who it deals with around the world. It does not seem to like some dictatorships while it likes others. If honourable senators want me to go into that sphere I can bring out a file I have in my drawer and we can go through the very peculiar attitude of this Government in the way it selects its international friends. It certainly does not recognise the definition of democracy by the Westminster or British standard of government when selecting its friends around the world. I make one plea on this subject of energy. I plead with the Minister to produce policies. They do not have to be favourable but he must have policies of some sort. He has had 2 years in Government and years in Opposition to produce them but he has nothing to show but antagonism towards anyone who looks like making a profit. Unless the Minister can produce policies this country will go into a long term decline. 
-The honourable senator who interrupts should talk to the people in the board rooms of Australia and learn where they are going to put the money they have left. Many of them are looking for overseas investment. They will not put their money in Australia because this country is being run down as a side issue to a deliberate socialisation of every avenue that this Government can get its hands on. 
-No, I will not name the company. I have learned before of victimisation by governments and I do not intend to put these companies in the same position. 
I want to say something more about the South Australian scene. I refer to something of very great moment at this time- the subject of Redcliffs and the development of a petrochemical industry there. I will add one or two other points about the South Australian scene. It has taken a long while for South Australians to see through the fabrication which is the South Australian Government and realise that it is nothing less or more than a creation of propaganda and Press relations experts. This is clearly coming through at this stage as we consider a number of failures which are the legacy of the Dunstan Government in our State. Firstly, I want to refer to the situation of Redcliffs. As you would know,  Mr Deputy President,  there has been a great deal of controversy about this subject. It was introduced a few days before the 1973 State election in South Australia as a very great developmental project put together by the State Labor Government. 
At that time the Premier of South Australia said that the environmental studies had been made and Spencer Gulf would be safe from any possible pollution by this proposed plant. In fact he was quoted in the particular when he spoke at Whyalla and said that the Department of Fisheries had been consulted during investigations into the industrial complex and had given the all clear. That was an intriguing statement. Certain information was given to me indicating that in fact the Premier was not telling the truth. When the South Australian House of Assembly met earlier this year I was able to ask the South Australian Premier to produce the report which he said he had before the election and which gave the all clear on the environment in Spencer Gulf. This was his reply: 
In fact, as soon as the honourable member raised the question of what had happened to this report, I asked for it. 
These are the words of the  Hon.  D. A. Dunstan. He continued: 
I cannot find it. Very strangely, there is a docket, but it is missing. I am just wondering exactly what has happened, and I am a little interested to know. There is a docket listed in the index, but no-one can discover it. 
-The serial will continue: 
What is more, of course, I notice that the honourable member has been getting some information from somewhere. 
What is not included in this report is something that everyone in that House of Assembly will remember. The Premier pointed at me and said: Your friends in the Premier's Department stole it.' Honourable senators can reserve their own opinion on that statement. The honourable Premier went on to say: 
I got the following minute from the Director of my Department when I said, ' Find me the file ': 
I am referring now to the report that the Premier's Department then filed to him. I want honourable senators to remember the immensity of this question of a now $600m plant and the question of pollution which has driven other companies around the world engaged in similar manufacture into court cases involving many multi-million dollar sums. This was the report the Premier received in answer to his statement that he had a report: 
I vaguely remember a minute, - 
This is what was said by this public servantsome  time during 1972, on the proposed petro-chemical industry and possible effects on the marine life in the gulf I think it would have been between April and September, but cannot be sure. I cannot clearly remember whether the communication referred to was a loose minute, notes of a conversation, or part of a docket. 
My recollection is that the 'piece of paper' contained a discussion on a petro-chemical complex, whether at Adelaide or Redcliffs, and indicated that such could have an effect on the marine life if pollutants or heated water were allowed to enter the gulf. The premise of the paper appeared to indicate that, were the industry to take water from the gulf (or the Murray), it would be necessary for the industry to cool it (I think by cooling tanks) before returning it or putting it into the gulf. In other words, the paper said that with commonsense in using cooling tanks, etc., and proper controls during construction, there should be no problem. 
I have, on several occasions (and so too has  Mr  Scriven  told industry that in any construction they would need to consult at each stage with the Environment and Conservation Department. They have further been told this liaison would be necessary on their projected plans and proposals. In this respect where industry have said that large quantities of water would be used, it has been made clear that before water is returned or placed in the gulf, it would have to be cooled . . . 
-For the benefit of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  the statement concludes: 
Unfortunately the minute, docket, or note referred to in my first paragraph cannot be located, nor are we certain from whom it came. However, I am quite certain in my own mind that 1 have seen such a piece of paper. 
-That there was such a piece of paper. So the fate of the great works on Spencer Gulf which caused the Dow Chemical company in Canada to be sued for multi-million dollar sums was to be settled as far as South Australia was concerned by a piece of paper that the Premier had lost and whose nature his chief officers could not remember. What a type of administration! Of course, this was only the beginning of this very sorry tale of Redcliffs. During this period the producers had not really been approached about a final price for the gas. I understand that certainly as of last week- probably as of now- the producers have not agreed to sell their gas. But worse than this, it has developed into an interdepartmental and interministerial discussion. We find that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  entered into this matter because the whole subject of Redcliffs was becoming a serious sort of a fantasy in South Australia. Someone has given to a number of newspaper reporters an extremely detailed report of the whole handling of this matter by the Federal Cabinet. The upshot of it is- one can read it in a journal which I have here and which I will lend to any honourable senator who wants to read it; it is too long to quote- that there is a conflict between the Department led by the Minister for Minerals and Energy and the Prime Minister's department which is operating under advice given by an interdepartmental committee. 
The Premier of South Australia, who first started off by saying that the South Australian Government would provide all of the infrastructure for this plant, is now asking the Commonwealth Government to make up a substantial part of $200m for the capital works of the infrastructure. As the 'Australian Financial Review' indicated yesterday, it will cost $90,000 of capital investment by the State Government or by the Commonwealth Government for every job that is created at Redcliffs, and the plant is calculated to last for 10 years. In 10 years it is expected that the plant will have used the gas resources and that it will become derelict. This is the sort of program that the Federal Labor Government has been led into by  Mr Dunstan  in South Australia in cahoots with  Mr Connor.  Apparently the Prime Minister has woken up rather late. It would appear that he has woken up rather late to a few plots around him. At last he has woken up and he has asked for an accounting of the finances which the Federal Government is expected to put into this project. It will be a very severe embarrassment to the South Australian Premier if this plant does not proceed. 
The latest information in today's South Australian 'Advertiser' indicates that the Federal Government will hold a public inquiry into the environmental implication of the Redcliffs program in South Australia. I remind honourable senators that the South Australian Premier had it all clear before the last State election, but now there is to be a full public inquiry by the Commonwealth Government. But the interesting thing is that the inquiry is to start in the middle of this month and it is to report early next month. As someone in South Australia has said, what is its job? Is it to say yes? You are not kidding anyone to think that that committee will be able to produce the required report on that enormous construction project within a fortnight. 
I suppose that the Minister agrees with the slipshod ramblings of the South Australian Government. He will remember that during the last election campaign in South Australia the Premier came out with a very enthusiastic plan which had been worked out in co-operation with  Mr Hawke  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions under which the ACTU was to buy from the South Australian Government a large amount of land south of Adelaide and develop it for homes for the workers. The blocks of land were to sell for as low as $500. The ACTU was to obtain the money from other countries, including Israel. That plan formed pan of a dramatic election platform. After the election  Mr Hawke-  the Minister must know this- said that he liked Sydney better and that he was not going to do this in Adelaide. It was all right to say this during the election campaign in South Australia, but afterwards  Mr Hawke  got a bit tired of it and said that he would go to Sydney. I wonder what the people in Sydney are thinking at the present time and where the ACTU has bought a large area of land. Perhaps the Minister might care to refer to the much vaunted and much publicised Libyan contracts which were to bring multi-million dollar orders to the South Australian agricultural manufacturing industry. South Australian Government experts were sent to Libya and the contracts were signed. On 14 September last Horwood Bagshaw Ltd received a letter from the Libyan Government cancelling the contracts and giving no reasons for doing so. Our experts are returning to Australia. People are being sacked at the plant concerned. 
Well, perhaps we will come on to something else in the Budget. I note that we are going to have some water filtration in South Australia. Is not that marvellous? We have been going to have water filtration so many times. I remember formulating a policy for water filtration for the 1970 election campaign in South Australia. We had been operating a pilot plant which was filtering water in South Australia. We decided that whilst it would be an expensive program, if we were to develop a desirable quality of domestic water in Adelaide there was no alternative but to go into full scale filtration. Over some weeks and months departmental officers worked out a detailed plan for filtering Adelaide's water, with various estimates as to when certain sections of the city would be fully filtered. From memory the program was to be completed in 1978. By 1972 certain early but significant areas of Adelaide were to receive filtered water. Of course, we were defeated at the election and were unable to put into action the water filtration plan for Adelaide. After a few months the new South Australian Labor Government decided that this would be a desirable thing for our State, and it announced a water filtration program for Adelaide. I guarantee that since then that program has been announced 5 times by the South Australian Government, which keeps on announcing works that it does not proceed with. The program was announced yet again in the Federal Budget in 1974. I do not think we can expect that the Federal Government will go ahead as the Dunstan Government has proceeded and simply keep on announcing the program because this is the Federal scene and it would work very heavily against this Government in South Australia if it continued to play the sort of trickery in this matter that the Dunstan Administration has continued to play in our State. I believe that at last water filtration will be introduced in South Australia, but it took the discipline of the Federal Labor Government to accomplish what has been promised by the State Government as long ago as 1970 
-Mr Dunstan does not start. This afternoon we heard something about contributions to political Parties. I want to deal with another vital agricultural industry which has an unlikely connection with the subject of contributions to political parties. I join with other speakers in regretting the attack which this Government obviously has made on agricultural industries in Australia. I note that today the Australian Prime Minister is in the United Nations assuming some responsibility for feeding the starving and the hungry in the underdeveloped countries. But at home he is depressing vigorously certain important areas of agriculture. The removal of so many incentives to produce belie the brave words which the Prime Minister has uttered on that grander stage of the United Nations. I will deal with the wine industry in South Australia. Prior to the 1972 Federal election at which Labor came to office  Mr Dunstan  was the  Chairman  of the Australian Labor Party Federal Election Finance Committee. As  Chairman  of that Committee he worked rather assiduously to obtain funds for the election campaign. 
-Mr Dunstan in South Australia. He worked hard to obtain funds for the ' It 's Time ' machine. He wrote a letter to a number of people who it was considered might be able to contribute. He made particular reference to the wine industry. He said: 
The future of the wine industry has become an issue at the forthcoming Federal Elections. The Australian Labor Party believes, and its Federal Executive has stated, that the only solution that will guarantee continued prosperity for the wine industry and the many thousands of growers who supply it is complete abolition of the excise and its nonreplacement by a sales tax or any other imposition. 
-The Minister will be interested to know that the Premier of South Australia said: 
I seek your financial support for the ALP campaign for the Federal elections. You have already spent many hundreds of thousands of dollars on the wine tax and on collecting the information required by the Customs and Excise Department. The election of a Federal Labor Government will save you these costs in the future. You may be sceptical about the intentions of an ALP Government regarding the excise. Accordingly, the attached form provides the opportunity for you to: 
forward a donation forthwith or 
pledge a donation to be paid only after the Federal leader of the Australian Labor Party,  Mr Gough  Whitlam, has given an unequivocal assurance during the campaign that a Government led by him will abolish the excise and not replace it with a sales tax or any other imposition. 
Then followed the manner in which people could contribute. Of course, the Labor government has ratted on  Mr Dunstan. 
Yes, the Government abolished the excise tax and it applied something far more severe to the vignerons of South Australia. Quite recently- I think it was last week-  Mr Dunstan  said in replying to my colleague,  Mr Robin  Millhouse, who leads the Liberal Movement in the House of Assembly: 
Previously, 1 had publicly said, and I say it again, that 1 regard the impost of a brandy excise and the elimination of the differential in the excise on brandy as an additional impost, that is a breach of the undertaking I gave. 
. I bitterly resent having been placed in that position, and I clearly told the Prime Minister that never again will 1 give an undertaking on his behalf in that way. 
 I said that never again will I be placed in the position where I give an undertaking that someone else is willing and in a position to dishonour ... 
So, in the words of the South Australian Labor Premier,  Mr Dunstan,  he has been dishonoured by  Mr Whitlam  and the Government that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs represents - 
-That is just the point; the Minister does not know the difference between brandy and wine as far as the grape growers are concerned. That is exactly what he does not know. A number of statements have been made in recent times on this issue. On 18 September, only last month, a statement was issued in the name of  Mr Ackland, Chairman  of the Federal Wine and Brandy Producers Council of Australia Incorporated, and some of the points he made in that statement were these: 
The Labor Government whilst in opposition promised the industry every assistance but has in office appeared to go out of its way to try and bring a local industry, offering decentralised employment, to its knees whilst doing nothing to restrict cheap imports. 
The Government's action is likely to bring severe hardship and possible ruin to sections of a basic primary industry and I feel the situation I have outlined makes a mockery not only of their earlier promises but shows in their true light the sham and hypocrisy of prominent Ministers who protest loudly about atomic explosions whilst they continue to encourage and assist imports from countries concerned. 
Their actions in both directions will be at the cost and peril of the future livelihood of very many  grapegrower  producers. 
There are 2,300 producers in the Riverland region of South Australia alone. What the Minister does not understand, of course, is that there is great area of movement of grapes between the brandy and wine producing areas, and quite important quantities of grapes can be used in either type of production. If the price of brandy is raised by government excise to an impossible figure the grapes will not be used in brandy production; they will go direct to other forms of production, mainly wine production. It will be found that the industry will be completely overtaxed. Only a few years ago the grape vines in South Australia were being pulled up. Then, only a few years beyond that, co-operatives were being formed so that wine in South Australia could be stored and marketed. It would appear that the Minister is doing his best, by his attitude, to bring back those wretched days. It will do the Minister good to listen to these figures because he does not seem to know much about the situation. 
The promise of the Labor Party and of the Premier of South Australia prior to the December 1972 election has therefore cost the industry, by the imposition of a Federal excise in their place, an extra $ 1 3,729,000. In other words, the additional imposts represent 3 times the savings resulting from the removal of the excise on wine. No wonder the Premier of South Australia, the federal chairman of the finance behind the It's Time' machine, says publicly to all of 
Australia: 'I have been dishonoured by the Prime Minister of Australia and I will never place myself in a position again where he may do that to me in future'. I think that perhaps that demonstrates more clearly the ethics of this Government and how it will proceed on its course regardless of what the public thinks and regardless of what the States think. I deplore the ideological moves which are evident in nearly every administrative decision which is made by this Government. 
I return to the point that the Labor Party is quite openly a product of the union movement and it has the enormous responsibility of trying to juggle its disciplinarian type of government which reduces Cabinet to a rather meaningless interior operating organisation within Caucus. It has the job of somehow bringing under control in Australia an inflationary situation which is regarded by the most eminent economists in this country as one of the greatest dangers to our social system as we know it that we have ever faced. In the danger that is presented we have people in the industrial labour front who say that they would not mind if the capitalistic system were destroyed as long as it was replaced by a democratic socialist alternative. I can only say to this Government that it is involving itself by this Budget in one of the greatest conflicts, that it is distributing on a wider front and in greater measure the products which are generated by free enterprise in this country, and that it is using that generation to build its Budget. At the same time it is exhibiting to those who generate that wealth an attitude of disbelief in their general future existence. It is the greatest conflict that can ever confront a country. I can only hope that we will not see the dramatic changes that I fear in this country before the Government reaches its ultimate and inevitable demise. 

 - Senator McLaren obviously has become infected by his South Australian State colleagues. He has parrotted his praise for a city which is neither fish nor fowl as far as any organised entity is concerned. Monarto is a profitable farming area for those who farm it according to the dry land system of South Australian farming but it is not a pleasant place in which to put a city and would be reminiscent of Whyalla when one considers all the problems which would be created in trying to beautify it and make it habitable. I am sure that  Senator McLaren  bases his confidence for its future on the tactics which have been adopted by the South Australian Government and which have been referred to by  Senator Jessop.  I refer to the fact that South Australian public servants are to be conscripted from their lifetime work of establishing their homes in Adelaide. They are to be uprooted and sent to Monarto by government direction. 
I emphasise it by directing any honourable senator who wishes to inquire to the South Australian Hansard in which he will find that the South Australian Premier has said quite clearly that they cannot have their jobs and remain in Adelaide. They are to be sent to Monarto. 
I have spoken quite clearly on the Monarto situation in South Australia. What  Senator McLaren  did not tell the House was that if you draw a 40 mile radius from Adelaide you will find that Monarto is the worst conceivable position you could find on any part of that rim, except for the more mountainous or obviously unsuitable areas geographically, on which to build a town. Of any area where a city can be put, Monarto is the worst on that radius. There is no dispute about that fact. 
One of the people who worked on the report that went to the State Government told me that his view was that the Adelaide extension should have gone to the southern area in the Willunga district where there are some of the best living conditions that South Australia can produce. In that district there is a very large area of developmental land where there could be another successful satellite city. Monarto will develop into that most horrible of all types of cities- a dormitory area for which the Government will have to provide efficient transport across a mountain range so that people can work in Adelaide. The only alternative is to make Monarto attractive. We have heard already the proposition that it is to be laced with enormous ornamental lakes and that there is to be, from memory, a forest of 1 6 million trees. In other words the South Australian Government at this moment envisages doing at Monarto what has been done at Canberra without the more desirable climatic surroundings of Canberra and that is to create its own type of Lake Burley Griffin, its own $16m forest and its own attractions to get people to go to one of the most arid areas in the existing farming districts of South Australia. 
I would like to ask  Senator McLaren  what he thinks it will ultimately cost for every dwelling to be placed in that situation, together with its support facilities. Think about the cost to the Housing Trust in South Australia. The report prepared by the consultants, not by  Senator McLaren's  Government, engaged to look at Monarto said that in effect it was the wrong place. Even the experts who have looked at the area have said that the situation is wrong. 
-They also said in that compelling document that the South Australian Housing Trust was an amazingly efficient organisation. It has been long recognised as the most efficient housing organisation in Australia. The economics of South Australian community housing will be reversed by loading that organisation with possibly three times the cost of housing by the time the cost of immense support facilities, beautification and the like at Monarto are added. This will completely upset the economics of providing housing for the growth which it is now desired to take outside Adelaide. No one quarrels with the contention that there must be alternative growth centres for Australia's capitals. But in choosing a new growth centre for South Australia's population at this stage of Adelaide's development the South Australian Government has selected the worst conceivable site available to it. No parrotting of the South Australian Government's defence of a quite unsupportable situation by  Senator McLaren  can make it any better. 
I address my question to the Attorney-General. In view of certain conjecture concerning the apparent delay in the publication of the report of the Great Barrier Reef Petroleum Drilling Royal Commission can the Attorney-General indicate whether delay has occurred? In any event, will he take action to expedite publication of the report? 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General in view of the reply he gave to a question in the Senate on 3 October in which he said that he hoped shortly to take some action in relation to the question of the protection of privacy. Will the Attorney-General assure the Senate that he will reject any proposal to introduce legislation similar to the Privacy Bill introduced into the South Australian Parliament by that State's Attorney-General,  Mr King?  Is the Attorney-General aware that the South Australian legislation goes as far as defining the use of facts likely to cause annoyance or embarrassment as an intrusion into privacy? Is the AttorneyGeneral aware that many responsible citizens are gravely concerned that individual cases of unwarranted intrusion may be used as a basis for a similar Act, all embracing in its implications, which would inhibit fair comment and muzzle the media, especially in relation to their interpretation of actions of the Federal Government of the day and of its Ministers in Canberra? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy aware that a number of speculative reports have been published concerning the proposal to build a petrochemical plant at Redcliffs in South Australia? Is the Minister aware that despite a huge projected public expenditure, said to be of the order of $90,000 a job, the plant is likely to have a life span of between 10 and 15 years only. Is the Minister aware that the cost of gas has been raised by approximately 25 per cent because of the altered tax provisions concerning the mining industry included in the Budget? Is the Minister aware that a report in this morning's Age' indicates that the Minister for Minerals and Energy has over-estimated the gas reserves at Palm Valley by 700 to 800 per cent? In view of these factors will the Minister clarify the Redcliffs position and give an undertaking that he will not approve any reckless commitment by the South Australian Premier for the disposal of South Australian gas resources for the benefit of industries situated in foreign countries, which will put at risk the supply of gas needed for existing and potential users in South Australia and Sydney? 
I understand that, while I was in the Library trying to assemble some anti-Government propaganda and speech-making material for another subject to be debated in the Senate, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Greenwood)  used my name when referring to a vote which was just taken in the Senate. 
Senate Missen- He never mentioned it. 
I did not get a mention? Well, I am disappointed. In any case, I understand that criticism was made of the Tasmanian senators for taking the position which they did. There is one word which  Senator Greenwood  does not understand and that is credibility'. That is one thing which he is continually destroying for his Party because of the attitude which he takes in this place. In this instance we have an agreement between the elected representatives of Tasmania on a State basis and on a Federal basis to further the interests of Tasmania. Obviously this agreed basis is of benefit to Tasmania. In the past I have had some experience of States which have moved away from the Grants Commission. In so moving they have always done so with some advantage to their own area of representation. I am sure that this is done with some advantage to Tasmania. But to this agreed movement for improvement to Tasmania would be tacked on by the Opposition's amendment a subject of very great criticism of the Government which is a party to this agreement. This is misplaced. It destroys the credibility of the Opposition as it is placed in the position where this is not a proper basis on which to attack the Government. Honourable senators opposite should understand that if they want to be believed. I say to  Senator Greenwood  that I will match the small Liberal Movement's credibility against the major Liberal Party's credibility on any platform he likes in Australia. 
Yes, let us go to an election. If  Senator Greenwood  thinks that I am frightened of facing the public of South Australia because of what I have done in this chamber, let him try it on. Next time in similar circumstances we will come back with 2 representatives, whereas we came back with one last time. 
-Never mind; the public will speak, not  Senator Young. Senator Young's  remarks on television on election eve are well remembered by South Australians. The situation as presented by the amendment was that in isolation, disregarding all the other States- including South Australia- which are parties to Premiers Conferences and Loan Councils and disregarding the general agreement which must be reached about these matters, the Opposition says that Tasmania should get more money. How does this fit into the general economic policy of the Liberal Party? Which part of the economic policy which is put forward by  Mr Snedden,  who is the Leader of the Liberal Party of Australia, does this fit into? The Opposition has not said anything about that. It has simply said that Tasmania should get more money at a time when it is saying that the Government should be more economical and should reduce expenditure. All I am asking the Opposition to do is to present a credible argument and to say on which part of its economic planning this argument is based. There is no credible basis. This is the point I am making. 

 -Mr President, I do not wish to transgress against Standing Orders or your interpretation of them. I think that  Senator Withers'  remarks more than any others clarify the Opposition's intention in regard to the amendment which the Opposition tried to impose on this legislation. It is simply a matter of political gamesmanship. The Opposition has tried to obtain some foothold in Tasmania, where so far it has been an abject failure. The Opposition is attempting at every opportunity, whether it is justified or not, to mount some sort of campaign to make some type of come-back in that State. 
All I say is that the Opposition has not been able to attack the Government effectively on this issue. The Opposition has not grasped the imagination of the Senate in any of the arguments it has put on this Bill because, as I said earlier, they have not been well placed. It has not been an overall attack. It has been a parochial argument advanced for political purposes. I suspect that the future of Tasmania has figured very small indeed in the Opposition thinking. It has been largely political thinking on this issue. I do not intend to shirk the responsibility of my vote, which I believe is far more pro-Tasmanian. I did not support the divisive element of an unnecessary addition to the Bill which the Opposition wanted to put on to it. I shall stand up on any platform with  Senator Greenwood  concerning credibility. I believe that the votes which I cast in this chamber will gain greater credibility by the public of Australia than those cast by  Senator Greenwood. 

 -Mr President - 
-No. I had not finished my speech. I sat down to give way to the honourable senator who raised the point of order. 
I have nothing more to say except that I repudiate what  Senator Rae  has said. I fully understand the intentions of the Opposition. It is playing with words to say that it is not an amendment to the Bill. It was an attempt to add a very divisive and bitterly held amendment to a proposal which had the undivided support of the Tasmanian and Commonwealth governments. Because it was misplaced and was in no way a proper attack on the Government I voted as I did. My vote is in no way a reflection of my opinion of the Government. 
These are 2 very important Bills for South Australia. I am very pleased to be able to support them in the House and to know that these important transport links for my State will be beginning. They have been long in coming and are overdue, but now it is pleasing that they are being commenced at this stage. I am also pleased to see that the Opposition is not prejudicing further requests on behalf of South Australia by coupling with this very desirable substantive motive a subject for criticism as it did with the States Grants Bill and that we are not prejudicing South Australia's case as Tasmania's case would have been prejudiced had the Opposition been successful in putting its denigratory clause alongside the Tasmanian proposal. I am pleased to see that this stands in isolation as a matter of positive legislation for my State. 
I appreciate the remarks made by  Senator Jessop.  I know of his long interest in this matter. I remember that at one stage in 1969 he became a little excited about the lack of progress on these proposals and said that the State Government was holding up the matter. I remember that the Premier of the day had to say: 'I was sorry to see in this morning's Press the report intimating that the South Australian Government was holding up the matter.  Mr Jessop  is either misinformed or in error. In fact the situation is that the South Australian Government is awaiting word from the Commonwealth Government on this matter. ' 
That was said on 19 June 1969. 1 know that the situation that existed then is the opposite to that existing now. The Government in the State as well as in the Commonwealth sphere was to the right of centre and both areas were better governed than they are at the moment. 
I can understand  Senator Jessop  's impatience, which all of us in South Australia shared at the time, at the lack of positive progress in this proposal. I also remember that the subject became one of some dissension between the 2 governments, as good as they were at the time, and it was eventually agreed that independent consultants would be given terms of reference, which were quite extensive, to report on the possible solution to the- I will not say 'disagreement'inability to reach agreement on this matter. The proposals were presented to the State Government by the independent consultants just prior to the State election in 1970. They were not entirely satisfactory to the South Australian Government of the time. I know that the Government then was trying to arrange a satisfactory agreement for all sorts of reasons, and the forthcoming election could well have been one of them. But it was impossible with the pressure of time to reach an agreement. However, an agreement was almost within grasp in the early 1 970s. That is the fact of the matter between the State Government of the time in South Australia and the Federal Government of the day. 
It rather intrigues me why it is 1974 in which we see this legislation coming forward and why it was not late in 1970, 1971 or even 1972. Then we had a break in continuity in South Australia with the Labor Government assuming office and a government of a contrary nature in the Federal sphere. If there had been any argument that the State and Federal governments were at cross purposes in their ideological approach that would have been met in 1972 when the very undesirable fact emerged that there was a Labor government on both the South Australian and Federal scene. There can be no excuse for the delay since 1972 in bringing forward this legislation which is so essential to South Australia. 
-The Labor Party was long in opposition and spent much of its time evolving policies which took many dozens of pages to write up. I am sure it had plenty of time to work out what it would do with standardisation in South Australia. However, it took until now. I say to the Minister: I hope that this major work of great importance to South Australia is not relegated to the sort of importance that was given to water nitration in South Australia, another major project which will cost $50m by the time it is achieved in the metropolitan area. I tell the Minister, if he does not know it, that his Government in South Australia has announced that project at least 4 times. I see it has been included in the Federal Budget this year. I hope this is not one of those things which the Government with legislative backing tends to delay. I hope it gets on with the project because delay will only add to the cost and the cost will not be simply an inflated cost of construction but will be added to by the inefficiencies of transport which apply in the outmoded system and will apply until it is replaced. There is only one other point I would like to make. I have not read the Minister's speech which he gave this afternoon but I understood him to say that the South Australian railways will be the constructing authority. From that I assume that they will bear the entire responsibility. 
I take  Senator Jessop  's addition 'under the supervision of the Commonwealth'. I would like to know how far that goes to the actual completion of the work. Does that mean that the South Australian Railways Department will do all the work, or will it tender for essential items of that work? Here arises a very important question of economies, and I say without fear of correction or contest that work that is let out to tender will certainly be far more economical than work done by the Department. If the South Austraiian Railways Department is simply the responsible construction authority it will use its discretion, no doubt, and let out some work for tender. That ought to be inherent in the construction work. However, I would like a further explanation if the Minister can give it, and confirmation of the view which I hold that the work should not be done entirely departmentally but should bring within its scope the efficiencies which can be obtained only by large construction companies on tender. With those few remarks I certainly add my wholehearted support to the Bill. It gives me great pleasure to support it having had some personal involvement previously in the setting up of the agreed independent consultancy which arrived at what was to be the basis of final agreement. I hope that the work is carried out as speedily as can be arranged. 
I address my question to the Postmaster-General representing the Minister for Defence in this House. In view of the Government's decision outlined in the Minister's statement today to follow up its economic squeeze of the weapons research establishment through reduced Budget allocations, with direct action taken to place the defence facility in a mothballed, run down condition after 1976, will the Minister ask his Government to have this matter re-examined by an independent investigatory authority which will consider among other matters: (a) the concern widely felt overseas at the developing instability due to resource availability and its financial implications; (b) the need for Australia to maintain a developing scientific defence capacity independent of international sources; and (c) the retention in Australia of highly qualified scientists who may be lost to this country if the weapons research establishment- one of the finest facilities of its kind in the world- is dismembered because the Government considers the purchase of 'Blue Poles' and glass birds as more important than this country 's security? 
I would like to say a few words about a matter which has arisen in the sense that I have now been able to read one or two reports of what happened in my absence from the Senate yesterday concerning a vote that was taken in this chamber. I have also had the opportunity to peruse a report printed in the Launceston 'Examiner' concerning that vote. I want to read to the Senate my reply to that report which I sent to the 'Examiner' today. I hope that the 'Examiner' will print my reply and put in its correct light the situation in relation to the vote taken yesterday on the States Grants Bill. I wrote to the 'Examiner': 
The sense of your report in Thursday's copy of 'The Examiner' concerning the debate on the States Grants Bill in the Senate was admirably developed on a pro-Tasmanian basis. I applaud your paper's active interest in your State's future. 
However, the real issue of the debate was the provision of an additional $15m per year to Tasmania on a progressive annual growth rate. 
I did not vote against that Bill, as was inferred in the first paragraph of your report. 
I interpose here that the first paragraph of the report stated: 

 Senator Hall, of South Australia, joined Labor senators last night to defeat a motion calling on the Government to increase funds for Tasmania. 
My letter to the 'Examiner' continues: 
In fact, I voted for the Bill without reservation of any kind. 
The point of contention on which you have reported concerned an additional paragraph that  Senator Rae  unfortunately moved to have inserted into the motion for the second reading of the Bill. 
I voted against his motion which was nothing more than a divisive expression of opinion because it was potentially of great harm to Tasmania. 
The States Grants Bill as passed is a matter of some pride for Tasmanians as it now enables them to be governed outside of the Grants Commission. It is the result of a successful negotiation which will help every taxpayer in the State. 

 Senator Rae's motion was potentially a very harmful proposition for his State. He was quite clearly hitting out at the hand of generosity extended by the Commonwealth, and I am sure that if it had passed on my vote in the Senate it would have depressed Tasmania's reputation on the Federal level. 
I do not lay all of the blame for this at the feet of  Senator Rae.  The Opposition has been unable to clearly see its role and has missed many excellent opportunities to effectively attack a Federal Labor Government which I believe is doing a great deal of harm to this nation. 
Instead of concentrating on those proper areas of attack, the Opposition has hit out blindly as in this particular instance of  Senator Rae's,  and often harmed the free enterprise system which it ought to protect. 
The loss of the amending AIDC Bill is one example where Tasmanian industrial development could well be delayed because of the Opposition obstruction in the Senate. 
Liberal Senators will have to learn to put the welfare of their State above their Party. 
I trust they do not try to mount another political stunt for the benefit of mainland politicians at the expense of Tasmania. 
That is my reply to the report which appeared in the Launceston 'Examiner'. Upon making inquiries I found that the leading part of the article in the 'Examiner' was written on a report telephoned through to the 'Examiner' by  Senator Rae.  There was no misconception in the reporting of the debate and of the vote in this House in any message conveyed by the newspaper reporters in the Press Gallery. I have checked that. The matter was properly reported in every respect except in relation to that aspect which  Senator Rae  reported himself. 
Yes, it is detective work. The time has generally arrived- it will not be this evening unless honourable senators want to convey it further- to take apart the sorts of motives which prompted  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Rae  in the debate which took place yesterday. They were of the lowest motives and they do not match up with the statements made previously by those 2 honourable senators, which I have begun to research in Hansard. It will take some considerable time to ascertain what their motives are in this place but, if  Senator Rae  wants me to, I could refer to some of his previous remarks about smear campaigns and misrepresentation. He has been joined by his  Deputy  Leader who had been very frequent in his references in this chamber to higher motives. He has used such references in recent times, especially yesterday. As I say, it is the business of other honourable senators if they want to continue with this matter. 
I give fair warning to people like  Senator Rae  and  Senator Greenwood  that if the level of their motives is as has been indicated, this matter will not rest there. I will use a considerable amount of time to reveal those motives to their own electorates and to the people of Australia generally. I will certainly bring them to the attention of the Senate. The particular incident to which I have referred is an example of a severe misrepresentation, which has been clearly set out in my reply which I hope the 'Examiner' will print. I want to make it quite clear at this stage that I voted without reservation yesterday for the advantages to be given to Tasmania. I hope that further negotiations will be entered into with the Federal Government on behalf of that State in regard to its other needs. I hope that I will be given the chance to vote on further proposals which will be of advantage to Tasmania. I will not have a proper approach made by the Tasmanian Government to the Federal Government besmirched by the attitudes of the honourable senators I have named who tried to use Tasmania for their Party ends yesterday. 

 - Mr President, I claim to have been misrepresented. 
A  Senator who  has spoken to a Question may again be heard, to explain himself in regard to some material part of his speech which has been misquoted or misunderstood, but shall not introduce any new matter, or interrupt any  Senator in  possession of the Chair, and no debatable matter shall be brought forward or debate arise upon such explanation. 
I certainly have been misconstrued in the words used by  Senator Rae.  I want not to introduce any new subject matter but only to reject utterly the blatant and deliberate untruth that I am against the interests of small States.  Senator Rae  has no basis whatsoever for saying that and it is a desperate and unwarranted untruth. 
I am happy to vote for the second reading of the Australian Film Commission Bill. Of course, I do so in the hope that significant amendments will be made to the Bill in the Committee stage. I will vote for this Bill, knowing that the original legislation which introduced the Federal Government into this very important sphere was initiated by a previous Prime Minister and Liberal Party Leader,  Mr John  Gorton. I suppose that he has been the most pro-Australian Prime Minister and party leader that the Liberal Party has had. I pay tribute to him for bringing in the legislation when he did. I believe that the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  helps the situation further by now introducing his amending legislation, especially if the amendments, which will be discussed at a later stage, are accepted. 
I believe that this is a very important Federal involvement. I say that because I am concerned, as I am sure many people in Australia are, that Australian citizens should develop some conception of their country. If there is one fault amongst Australians today, it is a lack of any conception of where they have come from as a nation and where they are going as a nation. One of the ingredients in this lack of conception- it can be only one- is the very great lack of appreciation of things Australian, of the origins of this country and of a good presentation of the history of its development. I like to think that some of the films that have been encouraged on television by the Australian Government's involvement in the points system have produced very quickly amongst Australians a greater awareness of their country. I certainly congratulate the Australian Government on its involvement in the points system for the television industry. I trust that this Bill will continue the very good work commenced there, in developing for Australia that awareness amongst its citizens which I would like to see. 
However, my view of the Bill in relation to amendments is somewhat different from that presented by  Senator Guilfoyle  on behalf of the Liberal Party. I take a different viewpoint as to where the final authority should rest in regard to a number of important decisions which will be made. If there is one thing that this Bill does, it is to confer very great authority on the new Australian Film Commission. I insist- certainly the amendments I will propose will be to this effectthat some of that authority should be regulated and modified. These remarks apply particularly to clause 1 1 of the Bill under which the power, as it now stands, is complete. The Commission or its delegated authority, as represented by some other individual, could require any information of any person. That is simply too wide a power to provide to the Commission for the purposes of film making and film distribution. Therefore, I say that in my opinion the Senate should take a different viewpoint and in conferring, even under amended powers, very great power on the Commission, it should make sure that in the end it is the Parliament which has the oversight of the use or misuse of those powers. I certainly would like to see, by way of amendment, the final responsibility for the Commission intruding into what are now free industries or free enterprises in the community and how far the intrusion goes come under the direct oversight of the Parliament. In Committee I will be moving amendments to provide for parliamentary authority. Speaking at a different level, I think that the South Australian Films Commission set up by the South Australian Government would be operating far more efficiently if it were under far more direct supervision by the Parliament than it is at the moment. Certainly, in this instance of conferring much wider powers on the Commission I would like to see the oversight of it left with the Parliament itself. 
I also hope that it is the Commission's intention and certainly the Minister's intention that a great deal of material should be available and that exhibitors and theatre operators in Australia should in no way be directed, in the sense that there is only a very small amount of material from which to choose, in disciplines they must observe in respect of the time factors which will be presented to them and the proportions they must observe in showing Australian short films. I imagine that it is certainly the Minister's intention that the Commission should develop as soon as possible a very wide range of material so that a de facto form of censorship will not be imposed by that sort of limitation. I see little reason to hold up the second reading of the Bill. I certainly believe that there is ample precedent in the Minister's attention to television for him to further busy himself as he desires in this direction. But, in approving the second reading of the Bill, I do so on the basis that I want to move quite important amendments during the Committee stage. 
I understand what  Senator Guilfoyle  is saying, although I cannot see why the Minister should not have the authority to approve that this clause gives him. Such approval must be given in many other portfolios in which a Minister is responsible for his action in supporting programs in all sorts of financial enterprises. Certainly the clause that we are considering does provide specific assistance to a State or an authority of a State. I suppose the matter that you,  Mr Chairman,  spoke about in relation to educational films could be handled best by the Minister's approval if we were to obtain the sort of condition in the film industry of which you were speaking. 

 Senator Guilfoyle said that the Commission already is to be fully accountable to Parliament. If the Commission is to be fully accountable to Parliament, I can see nothing wrong with giving the Minister the ability to approve, as this clause gives him. It seems to be that it is something of a contradiction to say that the Commission is to be fully accountable to Parliament and then to say that the Minister will not have the authority to approve in the way in which he desires. Certainly I can see no contradiction between the responsibility which is being given to the Minister in this case and the responsibility that is given to other Ministers when they are accomplishing specific targets and programs. 
I wonder which is closer to the people, whether it is the Minister who is elected to this House or the Commission without the responsibility to the public and in the fashion as  Senator Greenwood  recommends it. I suggest that the Minister stands far closer in the control of the elector than does the Commission which is outside ministerial direction. If we are to suppose that we are arguing the cause of the people for control of their commission, certainly I would argue for the Bill as it is. I would urge not to take it completely out of the Parliament's hands, as I believe the South Australian Film Corporation is quite separate from the Parliament. I think it is far too separate from public scrutiny so that the Minister is able to turn queries away from it. I would like to see the Bill passed in its present form. It is not unusual for a government to support publications, as  Senator Greenwood  said it ought not to do. I remember that once the South Australian Government gave $10,000 to produce a book on condition that it was produced by a certain society. It was produced by the Australian and New Zealand Association for the Advancement of Science to commemorate a conference held in South Australia. The title of the book was 'South Australia from the Air' and the South Australian Government quite freely and proudly subsidised its publication. 
I am sure that there would be many other instances of governments helping in the publication of literature, and directly so, without an intermediary such as a commission. In a sense the Minister is his own customer in respect of some provisions of the Bill. The Senate has to realise that the Commission will be making films on behalf of some government departments. Once I had the responsibility of promoting industrial development. I commissioned a 10- minute film which was a major undertaking. I suppose it would have cost about $20,000 had it been done outside of government involvement. It was filmed by government cameramen and I supervised and revised the script. It was made to the customer's specification. It was a successful film and was widely distributed around the world. 
I imagine that the Government will request the Commission to make films specifically tailored for departmental use. I see nothing at all wrong in a Minister's requesting a film for a specific purpose for his Department, whether in the field of urban development, foreign affairs or any other aspect of publication. Surely the Minister is not only right in having some approval conditions laid down for the provision of funds but also should go even further and, if necessary, look at the script if his own Department is the customer. I have a personal precedent, as I have said, which I believe proves that to be quite the proper thing to do. 
If the Minister is to misuse his approval and is to direct ruthlessly to the detriment of the industry and the Commission, and what is possibly more important, the public investment in it, he will be responsible to this House. He will be subject to direct criticism and will not be able to shelter as some of his colleagues have been trying to shelter on the big financial questions of the day behind Treasury. He will have to take the responsibility for the decisions he makes and for him there will be no sheltering from the criticism of the public in the people's House. Having regard to what  Senator Greenwood  has said, I choose the Minister's approval and his responsibility here rather than his being removed from the scene and therefore unable to take that responsiblity. I cannot agree with the amendment. 
I think that  Senator Guilfoyle  is mixing the objectives of the Bill. She has them all mixed up because it is in a sense an industrial promotion exercise. It is not a venue to show films to the public. It has further disciplines that are set out in other clauses and I would advise  Senator Guilfoyle  to look at my proposed amendments. The amendments I propose take out the very specific power that the Minister has, make it of a far more general nature and apply it only by regulations laid on the table of this House. Certainly no one could properly claim that that is unparliamentary or undemocratic.  Senator Guilfoyle  is arguing that the Commission is a body which, without making its own decisions, is able to have a very direct say in what will be exhibited during a substantial amount of viewing time in theatres with the approval of the Minister. 
When we get to who shall see it, it is with the approval of the Parliament, not the Minister. That applies to the amendments that are proposed to clause 10, but turning to a State industrial development organisation it is clear that the Treasurer always has to give his approval to development of a particular industry. If public money is to be used at some risk in the development of a tourist facility- perhaps a motel, a factory or a picture theatre- that would come within the province of State development and the Treasurer would have to give his approval. Otherwise the funds would not be available. This goes a little further than that obviously, but it is still in between a venue such as the Australian Broadcasting Commission, which  Senator Guilfoyle  used, and a direct industrial promotion. Quite frankly, if we are to lay heavily on one side or the other, I believe it comes down to an industrial promotion rather than an area of transmission. The transmission, as I have said, is conveyed or controlled by clause 10. I advise  Senator Guilfoyle  to look at the amendments which I have proposed, which give the final say in that regard into the hands of the Parliament by regulation. 

 - Senator Greenwood makes his political motives very clear when he says that I have allied myself with the Australian Labor Party. Of course, that is his view. He would/' vote against any legislation if he thought that it was to his political advantage, regardless of the national needs of Australia. 
-Senator Young has made a remark. I could refer him to  Senator 
Greenwood's ability to put a very large spoke in the wheel of the Constitutional Convention because of the views he holds for political reasons.  Senator Greenwood  is renowned for taking the politics in any issue and turning them to his advantage. He will do himself no good by claiming that I ally myself with the Labor Party. He can try that again if he wants to, but it will not do him any good. 
We are discussing a Bill which apparently the honourable senator is deliberately misconstruing. He has refused to look at the further possibility of limiting the powers of the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland);  he will not consider it in conjunction with the matter that we are discussing. He continues to talk as if we were discussing a body comparable with the Australian Broadcasting Commission. We are not. We are discussing, as was stated earlier, a hybrid of industrial promotion and matters of furtherance of Government policy in relation to lifting the standard of films in Australia by placing an emphasis on Australian content.  Mr Chairman,  I refer again to your remarks. Perhaps I do so unfairly as you are not in a position to defend yourself or to say otherwise. In your speech in the second reading debate you made a very strong case for the development of a far greater range of educational films in Australia. 
I point out that, unless the Minister could set out a positive program along those lines, he would be reliant upon the Commission unfettered and without any direction to be placed alongside the financial resources of the public which are to be placed within its jurisdiction. There would be nothing to stop the Commission from adventuring into cinematographic equivalents of 'Blue Poles' and glass birds. I do not go along with  Senator Greenwood's  apparent willingness to provide the Commission with great sums of money with which it can then flout the popular opinion of Australians and the needs of this Government. Possibly, it could do this at a time of great stress, as is now evident in the community, and at a time when we are looking for leadership. This is a time in which a body has purchased on behalf of Australia, to the ridicule of most Australians, very controversial, to say the least, works of art at highly inflated prices. If that is what  Senator Greenwood  wants to give the Commission freedom to do, I do not agree with him. I think that the Minister ought to have some control over such matters. 
If  Senator Greenwood  can forget about the Labor Party and the Liberal Party for a moment when we are discussing the needs of the Australian community and Australian children in relation to educational films and if he can forget his partisan and divisive attitude on politics, he might be able to discuss what the community really does need. He might look to the fact that we should trust the Minister of the day, until the legislation is further amended, to control the Commission and, if necessary, there can be a responsibility that he must report back to the Parliament about its operations. I commend to  Senator Greenwood  that he support, if he can bring himself to do so, the amendments which will give him, as well as every other honourable senator, some parliamentary control in the oversight of the regulations made under clause 10 of the Bill. 
It seems that the Opposition's purpose is becoming clearer. I do not think it would be doing the Opposition or the Liberal Party a disservice to say that it wants an Australian Film Commission without any inhibitions. It does not want any control over the Commission. It has striven to delete the earlier controls. It now wants the Commission to be able to enter into any company arrangements without any control, oversight or approval by the Minister. It is pretty chilling for free enterprise in Australia- those people who are operating private enterprise film productionto know that the so-called free enterprise party in this chamber is willing to put in an absolutely dominating position an Australian Film Commission which can do as it wishes without any ministerial control to inhibit it. Quite frankly, I would be extremely frightened of the Opposition 's view - 
I am not timid. I want to draw attention to the many film makers I know. I am sure that the honourable senator- I shall not dignify him with a name- knows of many film makers in his own State of South Australia who take pride in their film production and who have ambitions. If there ever was an ambitious field of endeavour, it is the film industry. It lives on hope. I might say that a few operators have not much more than that. But there are many operators who have a great deal of skill. They look to the future to develop their skill in a free enterprise way. No doubt some of them would like to cooperate with an Australian Film Commission and also develop their skill or make use of the Commission's financial support. The omission of clause 8 will set up the Australian Film Commission without any inhibitions and take away all the directions that the Minister may give. By omitting clause 8 the Opposition intends to take away the Minister's right to stipulate what films he wants even in his own Department. I cannot understand the so-called free enterprise system saying that it wants to set up an all powerful dominating film commission which can run private enterprise out of the field. In effect, that is what it is saying in this amendment. 

 - Mr Chairman, I must at least agree that the debate has deteriorated a little since  Senator Greenwood  entered it. But it has a very humorous side because  Senator Greenwood  continually accuses me of being a socialist for insisting during the course of the debate on this Bill that the Minister is responsible on the floor of the chamber for the power that is given under the Bill, and in my view it ought to be this way. The power of the Commission, if it is to be called a commissionperhaps some of the stumbling block is in calling it a commission; perhaps we ought to call it something else and in some legalistic way that might satisfy  Senator Greenwood,  but if it is to be called a Commission, let us use that term- is to be represented here through the Minister who is to be given the responsibility for approving of certain of the Commission's important actions. I still maintain more than ever that that is the most democratic process and the greatest safeguard for those individuals about whom we are talking who will be concerned with the Commission, and we have not mentioned them a great deal so far. 

 Senator Greenwood has said that he does not want any controls on the Commission, and that has been his view insistently. He does not disagree with that statement. Therefore, as I said earlier- and I say this again to refute  Senator 
Greenwood's suggestion that I am being socialistiche is saying this in a practical sense as a socialist, which rather suprises me, but of late  Senator Greenwood  is noted for doing things other than what he says and of twisting words. He did this in relation to Tasmania as late as last week, and that matter has been the subject of further remarks here tonight.  Senator Greenwood  does not always do as he says. On this occasion he is free to accuse others of being socialists, but he wants to set up in the community an all-powerful government film making and distributing body, and let the private operators dance as the elephant said among the chickens- every man for himself.  Senator Greenwood  is going to let an elephant, in the form of this Film Commission, loose among all the small chickens that manufacture and make films in Australia, and he says that that is all right. 

 Senator Greenwood is a very anti socialist person, and he makes great play of it. In fact, ideologically he does not know much else in this chamber. He is simply anti- that is the first matterand sometimes he tacks socialist on to that. But he is generally anti, and throughout Australia he is known for his negativism. But forgetting that negative aspect, and tacking 'socialist' on tonight, he aims the word 'socialist' back at others. 
-Oh yes, he claimed that I was a socialist. Let us not get into what was said the other night when you came into the chamber and said that  Senator Greenwood  did not mention me. Let us get it right. He has accused me of aligning myself with socialists tonight. 
Well, let us not mince words. That is a legalistic attitude. I know what the honourable senator's colleagues do in my home State, and that is why I am taking some little time to refute the suggestion that  Senator Greenwood  has made. For the benefit of  Senator Greenwood  I again say to him that I believe that his view is completely socialistic, and I cannot support the letting loose in the community of a very large, powerful body free of any government direction which will gobble up the private operators in the film industry. I do not agree with  Senator Greenwood,  and I will fight him on it because I want to protect the small maker of films and, hopefully, generate large makers of films and leave them as private operators. I am sure that this legislation, under ministerial direction, will do that.  Senator Geenwood,  apart from being a negative anti-socialist is also a very great pessimist because he never thinks of himself as being back in government with a colleague administering this legislation. Surely he can see that far ahead, although with his actions he does a great deal to depress his Party's chances electorally. If he encourages his colleagues to defeat this Bill tonight he will disappoint many tens of thousands of people in the community. 
If  Senator Guilfoyle  's amendment to clause 10 is carried the main purpose of the Bill will be defeated. The defeat of clause 10 will obviously defeat the main purpose of this Bill. 
-Let us just get this right among the interjections.  Senator Guilfoyle  has said that the Opposition will defeat clause 10. I am saying that that will defeat the Bill; it will not be worth proclaiming it. 
-Senator Jessop does not believe himself in that case, because his spokesman has said to the Committee that those events will take place. I admit to the honourable senator from South Australa that if he wants to vote on behalf of those who make films in South Australia he will divide away from his spokesman and vote for clause 10 in the amended form. To return to the point on which I rose to speak, I point out to the Committee how futile it is for  Senator Greenwood  to wrap up others in fancy words and to take a course of action himself which is the most socialistic that he can take on this measure. I want it to be clearly understood that he is acting firmly as a socialist, and it is certainly a paradox when the Minister opposite him is presenting to the Committee a proposal which gives the people a better claim on the legislation which is before us. 
I would be prepared to support this clause on certain reasoning. I would have thought that if the Opposition has a view on this clause it would have tried to put the clause in order according to that view. Surely the Opposition cannot take the view that the whole of the clause must be omitted, because I think it has a lack of conception on the practical side as to what the departments may need. As I understand it, there is nothing to stop a department from saying: 'We will devote a certain amount of our yearly vote. We have allowed for a certain amount in our submission on the Budget for the making of a certain amount of promotional material for our department or some aspect of our department. 'The department can go to a private organisation and commission it to make the film. It can give the organisation a script and say: 'We are the customer'. I am quite sure that that is done. I cannot think of an instance but, of course, in the totality of the Commonwealth Government service it must be done over and over again. 1 think the Minister said that the Government spends $3m or $4m a year in film production. I ask the Minister whether I am correct in saying that he said that the Government spends $3m or $4m a year in film production. 
-The thing I therefore draw to the Opposition's attention is that it is not as though the Government is going to make its first film via this Commission. As I see it what we will be doing by means of this Bill is giving the Government, through its departments and Ministers and so on, the right to say: 'We want this film; we want this script'. 
Yes, absolutely. What I am saying is that if the Opposition's view prevails - 
-For the benefit of  Senator Jessop  - 
I would like to hear  Senator Jessop  's views. He has not spoken on this Bill yet. 
I am sorry. He has certainly given the impression that he has not spoken. Perhaps he did not impress. What I am saying to the Opposition is that the Government has a need for a considerable footage of film to be produced each year for its various departmental needs. If the Opposition is successful in omitting clause 8 the departments or the Ministers will not be able to go to the Commission and say: We want this film on these terms with this script'. Whoever goes to the Commission in those circumstances might be lucky, but, as I understand it, what I have stated is the case. The Minister is prohibited in paragraph (b) (i) of caluse 5(1) from giving approval to make films that serve the purposes of a department of State or an authority of Australia. The Opposition proposes to remove the Minister's power to make directions in that instance. He can give approval but he cannot give a direction in the simplest of terms. Under clause 5 the Minister may promote, distribute and exhibit films but he cannot give a clear direction in relation to the script. I can speak only of an instance about which I know from the past. What the Opposition is saying is that in that instance the South Australian Government was wrong in saying to its own film maker: 'We want this script, and we direct you to take that line out and put this line in in order to  promote a particular aspect of this Government'. The Opposition is saying that it would be wrong for the Government to do that if the Film Commission is the maker of the film. Why is it wrong? 
In that case the South Australian Government would have had to go outside its own film-making organisation and give the project to an outside group. It would have had to say to its own people: 'Sit there. The Opposition in South Australia, through its dominance in the Upper House, will not allow us to make use of you, so we will go outside and get it done'. 
It is no good the honourable senator saying 'no'. That will be the effect of the amendment. I am only drawing upon that instance from my own experience because I believe it cannot be faulted. I suppose in the Commonwealth sphere departments can go outside the government film maker on many occasions. In a funny little way I suppose that is helping free enterprise. The rejection of the clause would prevent the Minister from dictating to the Commission. The Commission could say: No, we will not allow you to dictate those terms. The debate went on in the Parliament and you were expressly forbidden from doing that. That clause was omitted and therefore you cannot dictate to us. You can give a general approval but you will have to agree to the details in your general approval.' I suppose the Government can go outside and have the film made more expensively and help free enterprise. I am quite sure that the Government will still get its films, whatever the Opposition does, but it will not be such a tidy arrangement. 
If the Opposition objects to other more major aspects of the clause, surely it could tidy the clause. Because I think that this is an extremely valuable Bill to the free enterprise film industry in Australia I would ask the Opposition not to destroy it in an overall move- to abandon its previous tactics of simply defeating something entirely when there are only certain aspects that it does not like. Perhaps the Opposition can at least look at this clause later and put it in order with its thoughts. Surely it does not believe that every part of this clause deserves to go in the rubbish bin. 
I think that  Senator Guilfoyle  has missed the real point because the amendment she foreshadowed to this clause would prevent the guidance and development of the Australian film industry. It would not help, but harm. One has to look at the points system in the commercial television field to see how that has opened up a whole new vista of enterprise for the Australian television film industry. As I said in my brief speech during the second reading stage, I think this clause has a much more important impact. Certainly the content of films can be slanted towards a very important aspect of Australia and that is to make Australians aware of their heritage. I am sure that in all sorts of ways the points system for television has been a very valuable instrument in that desirable direction. But the Liberal Party and Country Party sector of the Opposition has obviously decided simply to vote against the clause and has not tried in any way- and I find this depressingly frequent- to amend the clause or to insert a safeguard. It is rather illuminating or depressing, whichever way one looks at it, that the Opposition sees everything only in stark black and white. It seeks not to amend clauses but simply to defeat them and this is what it wants to do with this clause. 
If the Opposition looks at the amendment I had proposed to move I believe it will see a very real safeguard in it. I hope it is not going to argue that the implementation of this clause by regulations laid on the table of this chamber is in some way undemocratic because if it does it will be arguing against the basis of the institution in which it sits. The amendments which I have framed to clause 10 are quite clearly to require that the proportion of films which must be shown in the theatre, the fact that they are certified and the time that must be devoted to their showing, dependent on the Minister's laying regulations on the table in respect of those factors. The amendment clearly states that he may not operate unless he does so in this way. There is no way around it. The amendment is quite clearly and effectively drawn. My intention was put into words by better draftsmen than myself. It is clearly drawn and is not a fallible amendment. So we have the utmost safeguard. It will be interesting to note the response of the Opposition to my amendment, and if the laying on the table of regulations is not sufficient safeguard against malpractice by the Minister this will be a test of the Opposition's intention. If it votes against this amendment and the clause it will show that it just wants to be against the clause. It is not out of any fear of misuse because in the hands of the Senate as at present constituted any real malpractice - 
I would hope that but I do not expect it from the honourable senator. I do not think he has that sort of wisdom. I say to the Opposition that it is a real test of motive. The utmost safeguard is given. To say that this is not sufficient is to say that this Senate does not convey the will of the people. If it does not convey the will of the people the fact that the Opposition has more supporters than the Government has no effect. So having a majority here, or at least equal numbers- with the half and half number it is a majority- the Opposition cannot claim that this is an undemocratic chamber. If I am saying that the Minister can act only through these amendments by laying a regulation on the table which ought to be at the Opposition's mercy - 

 -Mr Chairman, I will not be distracted by the rather able senator from New South Wales. What I am saying is that I am providing in these amendments the utmost safeguard. The honourable senator can test his motives by voting against the safeguards and revealing his true intention, that he does want this thing to work in this way. If he wants that, let him say so.  Senator Guilfoyle  said that she wanted to encourage people and to give them opportunities, but her amendment did not provide opportunities because she is frightened of what could happen. 
If one looks at this proposal one finds that in a way it is very similar to the points system. I know that it has a different mechanism but it wants to achieve the same thing for the exhibition of short films of less than 60 minutes. It has the same objective as the points system in commercial television. I do not think anyone here would say that that has been harmful. I do not hear any protest in the community about looking at too much Australian programming. The Australian film industry has been praised from all sides in the second reading debate. If we mean anything, if we are going to do more than mouth words, let us put some teeth into this measure at the same time maintaining some safeguard, so that the 
Parliament- the House of the people- will have the final say as to whether the Minister's actions shall be approved. Therefore, I move: 
At the end of the clause add the following sub-clauses: 
A requirement shall not be made under this section unless there is in force a regulation declaring that such requirements may be made on or after a specified date and such a requirement shall not be made before the specified date. 
The regulations  may make provision, not inconsistent with this section, with respect to any matter in relation to the exercise of the power to make requirements under this section (which may include provision with respect to the proportions that are to be, or may be, specified in such a requirement), and that power shall not be exercised otherwise than in accordance with any regulations so made and in force'. 
I hope that at least some members of the Opposition will come out and show that they believe in the Australian film industry and will not turn their backs on it by voting against this clause. There is no way of devising a better safeguard if we believe in the parliamentary institution. I ask honourable senators to support the amendment. 
I am disappointed by the Opposition argument as given by  Senator Guilfoyle.  It seems to ignore the import of the amendments which are extremely important in the final construction of the clause. I thought they would alter the Opposition's view of the clause immensely.  Senator Guilfoyle  raises a very important point. I would like to see the Australian film industry helped and not harmed by the deletion of this clause. The honourable senator has said that perhaps we ought to include feature films. I wonder whether the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  is interested in  Senator Guilfoyle  's suggestion, which she has initiated, that perhaps feature films should be included. Would the Opposition accept this amendment, therefore, if private feature films were included, with the safeguard, as I have outlined, of parliamentary regulation by the Minister to institute their showing? It seems that the main objection which the honourable senator has is to a possible misuse of ministerial power. Of course that is remedied by my amendment.  Her  second line of objection is that feature films are not included. I would be happy to add private feature films to my amendment if that would satisfy  Senator Guilfoyle. 
I recognise the compass of clause 1 1 and I object to it because of the width of its provisions. That view has sponsored the amendment which I have circulated. But, on balance, I concede that the Commission would need some statistics, and I think  Senator Missen  has admitted that in his reference to sub-clause ( 1 ). What we are arguing about is the force which it will have in relation to the collection of statistics. The statistics which business people normally fill in must be filled in. They are of the widest nature and confidential as single items of information to the Department. However, heavy penalties are attached to them. I may say that if a businessman loses his statistics he had better quickly get another set because he will be fined. It seems to me that the information required by the Commission is no more than that which would normally be asked for in the collection of census and statistics, except, of course, I must say that the information will be used on an individual basis; it will not be grouped together just to get a general picture of an industry. Obviously the statistics will be individually held and used for the purposes and functions of the Commission. That is why I have proposed an amendment which I believe suitably limits the investigatory power of the Commission. 
I admit that I am not happy with any form of intrusion in a personal sense that demands information of this nature. But all of us- we on this side of the House as well as honourable senators opposite- have qualified that many times in the legislation we have supported and which Ministers have sponsored individually. One would know that under Liberal governments the ordinary citizen has been deprived of many freedoms, especially in relation to such matters as health and the like. If the relevant Act is used fully by State governments or local governments, the individual has no real freedom at all. So we can point to many parallels of very great power being placed in the hands of government instrumentalities. In this sense, as I say, I come down on balance on the basis that the Commission, if it is effectively to fulfil the functions which have so far been approved, should have the ability to obtain statistics, and those statistics should not be able to be withheld. 
Provision is made for a penalty to be imposed for the divulging of such information, but I believe that the penalty is inadequate. Therefore I propose to move a suitable amendment to increase the penalty substantially. Whatever may be the outcome of this particular amendment, I hope that a further amendment to be moved later will be effective and the $200 fine which will be imposed for divulging confidential information will be substantially increased. The proposed penalty is totally inadequate. I say that on the basis that I believe there has to be some force behind the Commission's request for statistics, otherwise in many cases it will not get them. I support the Government's clause and oppose the Opposition 's amendment, only on the basis that another amendment which I have foreshadowed will be passed and the investigatory power of the Commission is severely limited to its purpose. 
On this occasion I do not basically disagree with the contentions of  Senator Greenwood  about the width of the clause. I believe that the Commission needs some more authority than is conferred on it by the first part. If we are to have a difference of opinion on this clause and lose the entire clause, the Commission will be worse off for that action. I wonder whether the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  would care to suggest that this clause be postponed for further consideration to see if something better can be worked out. I do hot see how any viewpoint can lose by this course of action being taken. The viewpoints can still be adhered to as strongly as ever. I do not disagree with the general contention of  Senator Greenwood  although I would hot project it as far as he has. I do not like the extent of it. My amendments are framed to define it more clearly. I think we should give further consideration to the matter rather than have the Commission lose its power by passing different amendments which are inclined to do the same thing. We could avoid this if honourable senators on both sides of the chamber would agree on a course of action after further consideration. 
I suppose that the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  would like to get through this Bill as quickly as possible. But it might serve his purpose to refrain from passing a clause if that would preclude amending it at a later stage. 
Clause 1 1 (Commission to keep itself informed as to film industry.) 
Motion (by  Senator Douglas  McClelland) that consideration of the clause be deferred agreed to. 
Clause 12 agreed to. 
Clause 13. 
I ) The Commission may, by writing under its seal, delegate to a member of the Commission or to a member of the Staff of the Commission, either generally or otherwise as provided by the instrument of delegation, any of its powers or functions under this Act. other than this power of delegation. 
I want to say briefly that I have listened with interest to the rather touching concern of  Senator Greenwood  with the transport problems of Tasmania. It may be accidental or coincidental that his concern occurs at the same time as there is talk in the community of an election. If his attention and his Party's attention to Tasmania is preceding an early election, I suspect and I would expect that his pronouncements about Tasmanian transport would be something that he would fulfil or would try to fulfil if his Party were elected to office. In that event I would draw  Senator Greenwood  's attention to the plight of a very important area of South Australia called Kangaroo Island which, over many years, has suffered with a very real transport problem. The residents and settlers on Kangaroo Island are placed at a very great disadvantage in regard to transport costs compared with those on the mainland of South Australia. In his enthusiasm in dealing with shipping costs in Australia I find that although  Senator Greenwood  referred to Tasmania he did not include any reference to South Australia. I would just tell the honourable senator that in the event that circumstances should be extended along the lines that I have projected and his Party should soon take part in a new government in Australia, I would expect, and certainly the people of South Australia would expect, to get at least equal treatment with that which is promised on the widest and most generous scale by the honourable senator to Tasmania. Certainly the honourable senator can expect some reaction from my State if he considers that it can be left out of the most generous plans that he has. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I have an amendment to increase the penalty under this clause from $200 to $1,000. It seems to me that the importance of this amendment might well depend on what happens to clause 1 1 , which deals with the ability of the Commission to ascertain facts from distributors and exhibitors of films. Nevertheless, I am quite sure that the Commission will come into possession of very important information which could affect the private film industry and other aspects relating to people who have connections and dealings with the Commission or who are deeply involved in the industry outside. It seems to me that the penalty of $200 for the communication of information gained in this way is altogether too small an inhibition against the possibility of someone so doing. Of course, the sum of $1,000 could be far too small, depending on the value of the information being dealt with. But one has to draw a median line. I suggest that $1,000 is a sensible, yet not over-repressive figure. I move: 
Leave out '$200 ', substitute '$  1  , 000 '. 
Since the fairly long argument which took place last night there has been a reasonable amount of agreement in the various viewpoints expressed on this particular clause so that there can be an effective and yet fair quota system set in motion for the exhibition of Australian short films. Despite some disparagement of my amendment last night, I feel sure that the regulation-making power is a very big safeguard for the members of this House in relation to what the Minister does, because the last part of the regulation-making power, which is now accepted so far as clause 10 has gone, says in fact that power shall not be exercised otherwise than in accordance with any regulation made. That is a very big safeguard. 
Looking at the other side of the Opposition's amendment which proposes to exclude subparagraphs (i), (ii) and (iii) of clause 5 ( 1) (b), I think we can all understand what the Opposition is trying to do. However, I think it is being unreasonable in proposing to exclude subparagraph (iii) because that sub-paragraph is a very wide definition in the sense that it refers to films that are designed to illustrate or interpret aspects of Australia or of the life and activities of the Australian people. I can only say that some of these films are made quite uneconomically at times. We may only get such a body as a film commission to make them. I think various productions of the Australian Broadcasting Commission do a very great amount to expand Australian productions which could not be shown on an economic basis. I would like to think that a fairly good spirit of co-operation all round could be extended to save clause 10 by the Opposition not proceeding with the exclusion of subparagraph (iii). I think, that is a very reasonable proposition. 
I remind the Opposition again of the importance of the Minister's regulation-making power. I ask the Opposition not to under-estimate the safeguard which has now been included in clause 10. If the Parliament does not like what the Minister must set out in regulation, Parliament can say he cannot have it. That is paramount to what we are talking about. We are not now talking about the Minister being able to direct or approve, regardless of what the Parliament wants. What we are saying is that the Minister may approve these various factors and the quotas and the proportions. He will have to set out either the individual films to be made or certainly the type of films proposed, and Parliament will have the opportunity to disallow. 
I know that the Minister has fought strongly for sub-paragraphs (i) and (ii). At this late stage after hours of debate it. is time to be factual. My assessment is that the Opposition is going to knock out clause 10 if it does not have its amendment passed. If later in the debate the Opposition adopted the principle of trying to save clause 10, which is a most important part of the Bill for the encouragement of the Australian film industrythe Opposition cannot expect to get all its own way- I suggest that it drop its insistence in relation to sub-paragraph (iii) and allow in that general description in regard to the oversight of the Parliament through the regulation. I hope that the Minister might be able to respond in some form by not going ahead with his opposition to the Opposition 's proposals in relation to sub-paragraphs (i) and (ii). If the Opposition did as I suggest, from my experience in the making of legislation, that would be a fair compromise all round and it retains the essentials for the industry with the safeguard of Parliament. 
I believe that the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange should have the right to finish its work. If a vote is to be taken in that regard I suppose our views ought to be known. I am going to vote for the Committee to finish its work, and I will be very happy to support  Senator Rae  in that position. However, I too would expect him to finish that work as quickly as possible. 1 have run into very severe criticism in the business community in relation to the length of time the Committee has taken to produce its report. 
-That is the fact, for the benefit of  Senator Sim;  I am just telling him that. The criticism was on 2 levels. It was directed, firstly to the length of time and, secondly, to the fact that some people were singled out to be named, to be criticised, and others were not. However that may be, I am happy to support  Senator Rae  in the finishing of his work. I hope that it will be carried out as expeditiously as possible and that the Committee will report, as the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  has indicated, as soon as it can. I would not like to feel that the matter was taken out of the hands of  Senator Rae  in any way by means of the Government's amendment. On that basis I think, from what I have heard of the debate, I would support  Senator Rae  's motion. 

 - Mr 


 President, I join with those who sit on your left in supporting the Social Services Bill (No. 3). I have very few remarks to address to it, except to say that I congratulate the Opposition on the form of its amendment. I think it is the third amendment of this type that it has chosen to move during this session, but this is the first of the three which is constructive. I will be pleased to support it because it is constructive and not destructive as have been the other amendments. I refer especially to the one in relation to the payment to Tasmania. However, I am somewhat intrigued by the advocacy of Opposition senators that a great deal more money should be spent at this time, because their Leader is advocating a very great reduction in the planned expenditure of government from 32.5 per cent to 25 per cent, I believe. The figure of 25 per cent is one with which I really agree. It seems to me that this is a legitimate figure and one that can be supported by the rate of inflation and, hopefully, some productivity increase in the community. But I cannot see how Opposition senators can reconcile their advocacy tonight to spend many hundreds of millions of dollars more of the community's funds as I imagine  Senator Baume  's advocacy would mean. 
It is a special sort of money apparently. But I take it it would have to come out of the Budget recommendations. I assume it would cost an enormous amount of money, and I cannot reconcile the honourable senator's advocacy with that of his leader. If the Senate is to mean anything in its approach to the problems of Australia at this time it is up to the honourable senators who advocate the spending of more money to say how much they are going to put on the figure which is presented to them here. 
At least  Senator Guilfoyle  was more specific. She advocated the spending of $25m to $35m additional for those people included in the terms of her amendment, namely, widowers and deserted husbands with dependent children. She has put forward the proposition that they should be eligible for benefit on the same basis as widows and deserted wives. I am happy to support this amendment. I understand from the honourable senator who moved the amendment that this would amount to between $2 5 m and $35m. I assume, of course, that this is an Opposition promise. I assume that what is contained in this amendment is a promise to the community by the Opposition if it comes to office in the near future or in the longer period of time. In the same way I take it that the amendment moved in relation to the grants to Tasmania was a promise to the community. As I said in this House, that promise would have to be extended, in my view, to Kangaroo Island in South Australia.  Senator Withers,  who is interjecting, will have a considerable amount of trouble if he does not intend to be equitable in the moves he supports in this House. I refer to the several together because we are seeing the development of a certain aggregate of promises on behalf of the Opposition. If the Opposition comes to office, as it is widely predicted it will, in the first half of next year, we will look for an early fulfilment of those programs. Certainly as an interested observer I will do what I can to ensure that the Opposition fulfils its promises if it is in any position to do so. 
I simply want to say that in voting for this amendment and the promise which it involves I am rather intrigued that the Leader of the Liberal Party in the Opposition in Australia is travelling this country advocating a reduction of a very considerable percentage in government spending. I would just voice my interest in that very adept proposition, namely, that one can increase expenditure very considerably at the same time as one can reduce it. So I will do my best to see that the Opposition fulfils its rather miraculous promises. 
I present the following petition from 245 Australian Government employees: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament. The petition of the undersigned Australian Government employees respectively shows: 
That under the provisions of the existing Superannuation Scheme for Australian Government employees: 
contribution rates are excessively high- especially high for older members and hence precludes most senior contributors from the full pension theoretically available; 
costs of administration are needlessly high because of the complexity of the scheme; 
female contributors are discriminated against. 
The proposed new scheme is no more generous to contributors than the existing scheme, will cost no more to the Government, and is tailored to meet the needs of modern society beset with problems caused by inflation. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, will take the most urgent steps to ensure: the introduction of the Treasurer's proposals for a new Superannuation Scheme for Australian Government employees presented in March 1974. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Australian Economy: Proposals by Premier of Queensland 
When  Senator Greenwood  first began to speak I felt sorry for him. He was reading from a prepared statement and obviously was under some Party discipline to explain to the Senate why he had led the fight to wreck the Constitutional Convention. Tonight he was trying to get out of the responsibility which he has as  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in wielding the numbers that he can help to wield in the Senate to be obstructive. If there is one word that the Opposition does not like, it is the word 'obstruct'. It does not like that word because it fits. Week after week and month after month we have seen obstruction in the Senate in which  Senator Greenwood  has been the leading figure. He does not like it when the Press accurately reports his antics in the Senate as were indicated quite clearly in the editorial of the 'Australian' newspaper this morning. 
-Let me finish,  Senator Webster. Senator Greenwood  has raised other matters of great moment as far as his attitude in politics is concerned. While I have regarded him as a fairly authoritarian person, I really did not realise he harboured the dictatorial attitude that he revealed tonight, in his statement that he believed that the Liberal Movement could be represented on the Constitutional Convention only if his Party said so. That is his view of democracy in the Senate. 
-He did say it quite clearly. If the honourable senator wants to play with words, he may do so, but the Senate Hansard will reveal clearly that  Senator Greenwood  said that the Liberal Movement should not be represented unless this had been cleared by the Opposition. He also said that the Liberal Movement was not part of the Opposition. So the Liberal Movement is not part of the Government; it is not part of the Opposition; it does not sit in the aisle, but it does not have the approval of  Senator Greenwood.  Therefore, it should not have a seat as part of the Senate at the Constitutional Convention because  Senator Greenwood  has not said so. I acknowledge  Senator Greenwood's  dictatorial and authoritarian attitude in relation to the activities of other parties in the Senate. He does not want to give them any freedom and he wants to oversee them in his position as  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. (Quorum formed.) 
I was saying that  Senator Greenwood  has exhibited authoritarian views in the Senate tonight in that his Party should control the activities of other parties in the Senate. I reject that proposition. My first feelings were something of regard for his position when he began to read his prepared statement trying to escape the responsibility for his action in the Senate. I felt sorry that he had been caught up in his own use of power to obstruct the work of the Senate. But as he ended, any regard that I had for his position evaporated as he attributed to the Government less than noble sentiments and said that it had set out to wreck the Constitutional Convention by including me as one of the delegates. I ask the Senate to examine what proof  Senator Greenwood  may have of that assertion. What proof has the noble lawyer to substantiate the charge he has made that the Government has deliberately wrecked the Constitutional Convention? This is the standard of the man. I wonder what the Press will report on the criticisms that he has made tonight. What proof does the honourable senator have to substantiate his charge against the Government in that regard? 
-The honourable senator has none and  Senator Webster  would do well to study his remarks tomorrow. The honourable senator has attacked the Press for interpreting his obstruction to the Constitutional Convention. The honourable senator said that only his Party should say, by agreement with others, who can be a member of the Constitutional Convention. He went on to criticise in some unknown and unsupported fashion the failure of the referenda to pass. I am not quite sure how he brought that matter into the debate. What part did the honourable senator play in the failure of the referenda to pass? There were three, I would agree with him, that should not have passed, but one referenda question it was completely proper should pass and in regard to which his Party brought no proper opposition at all. 
That was the matter of putting the Senate and House of Representatives elections together again. The senator set out with his Party to defeat even that referendum proposal which could not be properly criticised. He therefore assisted in building into the future of Australian politics a great area of instability because he would not support the putting together of the 2 elections. Consequently he will increase the number of elections of which already, I understand, there have been five on the Federal scene since 1966. So this great democrat who bemoans the failure of the Constitutional Convention because his view as an Opposition member was not acceptable to the rest of the Senate and who has helped increase instability in Australian politics for years to come, is now trying to find an excuse.  His  excuse is that the Government has deliberately set out to include me as a delegate to wreck the Constitutional Convention. 
I invite Australia to examine his argument.  Senator Greenwood  said in this Senate rather revealingly a few months ago, in reply to a question asking whom he represents in this Senate, that he represents himself. By the numbers he attracted when he started speaking tonight that is about correct, because before the bells were rung in the first instance when he was reading his prepared excuse there was one Minister in the chamber and, I think, one other member of what he terms the Opposition Party. I was here, of course, but I am not a member of the Opposition by the honourable senator's definition. That was the attention that the honourable senator could attract in this House until the discipline of the bells was used to bring in under the provisions of the Standing Orders other honourable senators who had not wanted to hear this lamest of all speeches tonight. 
I advise  Senator Webster,  who is interjecting, not to take up bad cases. There are plenty of cases in this Parliament which he could argue very well indeed. I admire  Senator Webster's  ability to debate and to take part in the proceedings of this chamber but he would be much better advised not to assist  Senator Greenwood  who is rapidly passing from favour in the Liberal Party because of his well-known obstructionism. I am finding that there is a demand from Liberals in this country for a far more positive attitude in the national Parliament, and if they are not going to get it through  Senator Greenwood  they will demand to get it through someone else. There are hot breaths on his neck within his own Party as he well knows. 
South Australians are rather amused and yet bewildered to find that their own members of the Senate on the Liberal side have voted in this chamber to deny a Liberal senator from South Australia a place on the Constitutional Convention at a meeting held in South Australia. South Australians are very keen to know why their own so-called Liberal senators have voted in this fashion. I suppose they could be led on by  Senator Jessop  who is first on the casualty list to go at the next election. I suggest that  Senator Greenwood  and whoever else might like to support him- perhaps  Senator Webster-  should forget all the excuses and trying to run away from the responsibility they hold in this place and attend a State Fair in South Australia- a Liberal promotionon Saturday 16 November. If  Senator Greenwood  would like to mix with South Australians he might find other views. But if he attends his Liberal Party State Fair on 16 November he will find a great list of activities. Among them he will find a pigeon release, a balloon bonanza, a dog obedience demonstration. I am sure that in looking at his own senators he sees a sort of dog obedience demonstration. And he will need to take note of it because I can tell you,  Mr President,  that there are people who are becoming alarmed about him. In any case he cannot look to the Liberal Movement for a dog obedience demonstration because he will find quite the opposite. He will find, going through the list of activities at the fair, a corroboree, a white elephant stall and other delicacies which I am sure would better occupy his time than being here in the Senate. 
In conclusion,  Senator Greenwood  should understand that the Liberal Movement is quite a separate party from his Party. It rejects the Liberal Party of Australia as it is represented in 
South Australia as being a completely reactionary group which has lost the confidence of the South Australian community, so much so that of the 8 House of Representatives seats for the metropolitan area of Adelaide the Liberal Party holds but two. My opponents in politics in the Australian Labor Party hold six. The reason for that is the type of representation that South Australia has. There are very few Liberals there but they give the type of representation which repels the general community and enables my political opponent to win three-quarters of all metropolitan Adelaide seats in the House of Representatives and, coincidentally, in the State House of Assembly. It is with pride that I continue to enunciate my difference from the Liberal Party of Australia and my personal difference from the authoritarian attitudes illustrated, announced and enunciated by  Senator Greenwood  in this House tonight. I may be yet but one representative of the Liberal Movement, but may I in a sense encourage  Senator Greenwood  's remarks and attitudes tonight because he is certainly hastening the day when I am joined by others. 
I present 2 petitions, identical in wording and from 29 and 40 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We the undersigned Citizens of the Commonwealth, by this our humble Petition respectfully showeth: 
That the existing matrimonial laws in Australia are archaic, unrealistic, and cruel and so completely at variance with modern thought as to require their immediate repeal. 
That there is such urgent need for reform that there must be no delay in presenting the Family Law Bill 1 974 to Parliament for debate. 
That the ground of Irretrievable Breakdown of Marriage be the sole ground for divorce with proof of this determined by a maximum of twelve months separation. 
That dissolution of marriage must come out of the legal system with people resolving their family matters between themselves according to guidelines and with assistance of a mediator. Family Courts only to be used for enforcement as a last resort. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received. 
I present the following petition from 38 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
1 ) That the recent increases in tariffs at Commonwealth Hostels in the Australian Capital Territory are causing hardship amongst the lower paid junior ranks of the Public Service whose only choice of accommodation in Canberra are these hostels. 
That since these increases there has been a dramatic reduction in the quality and quantity of both food and services in the hostels. 
That any further increases in tariff coupled with the general shortage of single person accommodation in the A.C.T. are unjustified and will cause people employed in the Public Service in Canberra to resign and leave Canberra to seek better conditions elsewhere. 
Therefore, your petitioners humbly pray that the Government will hasten to amend such laws as would compel Commonwealth Hostels to come within the jurisdiction of the A.C.T. Prices Controller to prohibit unjustified rises in tariff. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 

 - Mr President, I do not want to delay the Senate for any length of time, but I want to correct the arithmetic of one or two honourable senators who have claimed that certain Opposition senators have voted for the Government at certain times, and of course I have been the butt of those remarks.  Senator Jessop  claimed, I think yesterday or the day before, that I have voted for the Government on 49 occasions when the Opposition has not done so. I have taken some trouble to examine the journals of the Senate, and I have found that the record should be put straight in relation to the Opposition as a whole and the way in which it has either supported or not opposed Government legislation. I tender this factual information for the benefit of the Senate. 
So far this session the Senate has passed 57 Government Bills with the approval of, or certainly without the disapproval of, the Opposition. There are 7 voting procedures connected with the passage of each Bill. Therefore, the Liberal-Country Party Opposition, as a bloc, has voted for, or at least has not opposed, Government measures on 399 occasions. However, expressed as votes by individual senators, this represents 11,571 occasions on which the 29 members of the Liberal-Country Party Opposition have not opposed the Government. If  Senator Missen,  who is trying to interject, studies the record he will find that there are 7 voting procedures connected with the introduction and the passage of each Bill. He will also find that the same standard of approach was adopted by  Senator Jessop  in arriving at the proposition that I have voted for the Government on 49 occasions when the Opposition has not done so. I do not alter the standard of approach which  Senator Missen  and his colleagues have adopted. There is no differential in the standard of approach in working out the voting pattern. 
In my case there have been an additional 49 occasions on which I have given individual votes in support of Government Bills. I therefore have not opposed or voted for Government legislation on 399 occasions, plus 49 occasions, making a total of 448 occasions. In order to find the number of occasions on which the LiberalCountry Party Opposition has voted for the Government, one has to multiply the votes of the 29 Liberal-Country Party senators by the number of Bills by the number of procedural matters which are decided by vote. On 11,571 occasions the Liberal-Country Party Opposition has voted for the Government. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-My question, which I direct to the Attorney-General, concerns the report given by the committee investigating the environmental effects of the Redcliffs petrochemical project in South Australia. Is the Minister aware that it was recommended that major changes should be made to the Indenture Act which will be presented to the South Australian Parliament concerning this matter? In view of the unwillingness of the consortium to give an undertaking to the inquiry that it could meet certain emission standards, and in view of the confusion and secrecy with which the South Australian Government has surrounded the discussions, will the Minister ask the Prime Minister to give an undertaking that no Australian Government support will be given to the Redcliffs proposal until the necessary legal safeguards as recommended by the inquiry are incorporated in the South Australian legislation? 
I rise for only a short time to deal with a small matter, and that is to put right the inference that may have been gained by the Committee from  Senator Greenwood's  remarks that I laughed with the members of the Aus.tralian Labor Party when  Senator Greenwood  made some remark concerning his claim to have been misrepresented. I simply want to put it on the record that I was not laughing at any particular side of the argument in the debate, in which I had not taken a part. I was simply laughing at  Senator Greenwood  himself in relation to his claim that he had been misrepresented because he so ably earlier this evening made the same type of misrepresentation, in my view, about 
Government senators. Without entering into any great argument, I simply want to. say that my laugh, which  Senator Greenwood  noted and remarked upon, was directed not at the substance of what  Senator Greenwood  was saying but at  Senator Greenwood. 
I present the following petition from 80 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth, by this our humble petition respectfully showeth: 
That the existing matrimonial laws in Australia are archaic, unrealistic, and cruel and so completely at variance with modern thought as to require their immediate repeal. 
That there is such urgent need for reform that there must be no delay in presenting the Family Law Bill 1974 to Parliament for debate. 
That the ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage be the sole ground for divorce with proof of this determined by a maximum of twelve months separation. 
That dissolution of marriage must come out of the legal system with people resolving their family matters between themselves according to guidelines and with assistance of a mediator. Family courts only to be used for enforcement as a last resort. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: In view of the general understanding that Federal reimbursement payments to the States, and the operation of the Grants Commission, should provide the basis for a comparable living standard for Australian citizens in all Australian States, will the Government use its negotiating influence with the South Australian Government to have the Dunstan administration refrain from levying land tax on land used for primary production, thereby bringing South Australia in line with all the mainland States in this regard, and raising the standard of living of South Australian rural producers up to the standard enjoyed by those living in States governed by non-Labor administrations? 
I do not want to say a lot about this Bill. I have had the pleasure of talking at some length with Aboriginal leaders and I intend to renew those contacts because I greatly enjoyed learning more in this field. The one great factor I came away with after my first real meeting on that level was that those people really wanted to be Australians and to end discrimination in this community. I think that the amendment proposed by the Opposition would further discrimination, not end it. I listened with great interest to  Senator Bonner,  and especially to - 
I shall have something to say about  Senator Rae  a little later in my address. One of the great flaws in the Opposition case in this matter is that it has  Senator Rae  putting it. I will elaborate on that matter at another time. 
I will illustrate how a senator's word is not to be taken as he puts it. A man who has promoted the untruths as  Senator Rae  has done is not the man who should lead for the Opposition on this very delicate question.  Senator Bonner  said very rightly that this should not be a political question. One understands, of course, that there is an election campaign in Queensland at this time and that this is a very political debate in this chamber. As I understand it, in  1967  the Australian people directed that Aboriginal affairs was to become a matter for the Australian Parliament. 
It certainly gave the major responsibility for Aboriginal affairs to the Commonwealth Government and, as I understand it, under this legislation that Government has made arrangements on a negotiated basis with all the other governments concerned with Aboriginal affairs except the Queensland Government. As I understand it from the arguments put from both sides of the House, the Queensland Government has not agreed with the Australian Government. 
I do not agree that the South Australian Government has shirked its responsibilities in this matter. I had something to do with the early stages of this transition. On both sides of politics in South Australia there has not been a disagreement nor an assessment that the South Australian people or the South Australian Government, of either colour, has shirked its responsibility by co-operating with the Commonwealth Government. This legislation is being discussed here by the Opposition as if somehow the Queensland Government is the chief beneficiary of it. I thought we were dealing with the welfare of Aborigines in Queensland rather than the Queensland Government which  Senator Rae  is supporting in his amendment. I am not enamoured of the Government led by  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  in Queensland as far as it represents Australians in that part of Australia. I have no doubt that he will be returned to office on a minority vote in that State but for a number of particular reasons he is not regarded outside Queensland as an estimable leader of Australians. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  outlined in his second reading speech instances of the Queensland Government being unwilling to talk with the Australian Government about Aboriginal affairs. I find that an incomprehensible action on the part of a government which at least has a duty on behalf of the people it represents to consult with the Australian Government. No valid excuse has been given in this House as to the inaction of the Queensland Government in this matter. None has been forthcoming and I cannot envisage that any will be forthcoming which will excuse the laxity and apparent determined intention of the Queensland Government to ignore its responsibility in this matter. 
-As I said earlier,  Senator Rae  is not a responsible senator in regard to this matter. I can demonstrate to the House, and I might do so directly if he continues to pursue this vein, that his word is not to be taken as it is said. I am not concerned with  Senator Rae  in this debate. 
-May I tell the honourable senator that I am not concerned with his utterances because I do not necessarily believe them. 
Let me finish. After my previous experience with  Senator Rae  - 
Yes,  Mr President,  I shall. After my previous experience with  Senator Rae  I do not trust him. I hope that when he tells people that I helped to defeat his amendment he will tell them the reason- that I do not trust him. 
-There are other reasons. That is the major reason. Another reason is that  Senator Rae  is injecting politics into an area in which party politics should not intrude to this degree. He is trying to take advantage by using the Senate in the guise of moving an amendment to the motion, although no doubt he will rush out and infer that it was an amendment as he did with the Bill relating to Tasmania. After seven or eight days a letter was printed in South Australia which went on, in the cold, hard light of fact, to infer that I had voted against money for Tasmania. In fact, the way he put it - 
-I am sure. It cut so many people to the quick that I understand legal action is being taken by others against the honourable senator. I do not take legal action; I take political action. I say that for the honourable senator's information. I remember in regard to the other Bill- I think I should mention it in passing because it is pertinent to this amendmentthat  Senator Rae  moved an expression of opinion that the Government should do something more in relation to financial aid for Tasmania. Yet in a letter printed in a newspaper in South Australia he said: 'This would have honoured a promise made before the 1972 and 1974 elections.' 
I submit that I am doing so because I said, in addressing myself to this point, that I was doing so in passing to give judgment upon the amendment- or should I say the expression of opinion- which  Senator Rae  is moving to insert into the motion for the second reading of this Bill. I think it is relevant to illustrate the type of activity in which  Senator Rae  is engaging. As I said in relation to the Tasmanian Bill,  Senator Rae  tried to insert into the motion for the second reading an expression of opinion but in the South Australian Press- he viciously attacked me on my home ground- the honourable senator said: 'This would have honoured a promise made before the  1972  and  1974  elections by the Prime Minister.' It would have done no such thing. It would not have honoured anything. It was an expression of opinion. To the public of South Australia the word 'honour' means that it would have voted a certain sum of money to Tasmania. That was a distinct falsehood. I use that example in the hope that the honourable senator will not try to use that very undesirable practice of inferring what did not occur. May I compliment him on his letter? As  Senator Withers  would know, no one could have read - 
-Not at all. I do not know whether  Senator Withers  helped  Senator Rae  write the letter. I would not know whether  Senator Rae  was capable of doing so. I was told that he had assistance at a very high level in writing the letter, even above  Senator Withers'  level. I can give  Senator Withers  a copy of the letter if he does not happen to have read the document. He will find that it contains almost half a column of attempt to tell an untruth. 
I thank  Senator Missen  for his point of order because I think the point has been made. I come back to this companion or parallel attempt by  Senator Rae  to do as he did before, this time in regard to the States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Bill. I make some matter of this only because I do not want the public to be misled again by  Senator Rae  in similar fashion. I hope that he will at least tell the public- if he intends to rush away to a telephone directly- why some people do not like his particular amendment. It is seen, at least in my case, as an attempt to influence the election in Queensland by putting a clause in the Bill which is against the Australian Government and is for the State Government of Queensland. It is an attempt to use politics. It is an attempt to use this particular Bill, which is for the welfare of the Aboriginals, politically. I will not vote for an amendment which will make Aboriginal welfare suffer because some politician wants to gain some votes from it. For that reason I will not vote for  Senator Rae  's amendment. I hope that if he tells people why I do not support his amendment, he will tell them that the first reason is that I do not trust him and the second reason is that  1  do not want the welfare of Queensland Aboriginals to be made a political football as  Senator Bonner  himself has said it ought not to be.  1  will hold  Senator Rae  to the responsibility of telling those he informs that those are the  2  major reasons why I will not support his amendment. 
I have little more to say. I would like to indicate to the Minister that I will certainly support him. I will support the Minister in those areas where he can endeavour, by new forms of legislation, to give personal responsiblity to Aboriginals who have not previously experienced it. He will have my support in any moves he makes in that regard. Let me say to the Opposition that it will have my opposition when it tries to stick to the methods of the past and refuses to venture into an area which gives dignity to the Aboriginal people and ends discrimination against them, as has been acknowledged in some areas of administration by the Queensland State Government. I therefore support the Bill and oppose the amendment so futilely moved by  Senator Rae. 
I would like to say in a very few words that the position in regard to Monarto is one which should lead this Government to make a very real investigation into what the South Australian Government is proposing in that very arid site relative to other sites available in South Australia. I draw the attention of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  to an article which appeared on Monday in the South Australian 'Advertiser' in which it is stated that the Federal Government is committed to Monarto and has already contributed nearly $15m, the majority of it in direct grants and the remainder in loan funds. I remind the Minister that the director of Monarto has his offices in the same building as the consortium for Redcliffs which is now proving to be one of the monumental failures of State promotion ever publicised in any State in Australia. The Federal Government should very quickly and efficiently assess the future of Monarto or else that project, predicted to grow to be worth $2, 300m, will lead South Australia's development to one side, at a tangent, and will be very detrimental not only to our State but also to the whole development of Australia. 
Turning now to the remarks of the Minister about what the Labor Government did for welfare housing in Australia since coming to office in 1972, I remind him that not only have completions of welfare housing fallen in South 
Australia from 2,175 to 1,321 but that the totality of all houses in South Australia also has fallen in absolute terms. 
As a representative of a State that has had a great deal of pride in its home building programs in the past I should like to speak for a short while to this Bill. My State has been involved over the years in construction of very significant recognisable communities within its borders, especially in the city of Elizabeth to the north of Adelaide and in the constantly growing industrial area of Whyalla on Spencers Gulf. This program of home building in South Australia reached its peak in the year 1960-61, when the number of homes completed by the Housing Trust in South Australia reached the all-time record of 3,299. That figure includes the number of homes and flats which were completed in that year. Since that time South Australia has grown significantly as an industrial base and in relation to its total population. Yet last year, 1973-74, the number of houses and flats completed by the Housing Trust in South Australia showed not an increase beyond 3,299 but a decrease to the very low figure of 1,321. So in South Australia we have seen a very real decline in absolute terms in the number of home units and houses completed by the State housing authority. That decline has accelerated substantially under the management of a State Labor Government, and it is very much to the discredit of the Dunstan Government's administration that home building in South Australia has fallen to such a low figure. 
It is a rather peculiar fact that while this has occurred the Premier of South Australia has continued to publicise his housing programs. In his election policy speech in 1973 the Premier spoke proudly of house building under government auspices in South Australia. In the relevant part of his speech he said: 
We have spent record amounts on public housing- in fact, twice the national average. 
No one would deny that. However, the problem for  Mr Dunstan  is that while he spends a record amount on public housing- in fact, twice the national average- he does not produce the homes. For all his great publicity machine on the 11th floor of the Government administration building in South Australia he cannot twist the statistics even though he may try to hypnotise the public over whom he presides. 
I will supply to the Minister further quotations of figures which will give the gradations of decline in the situation in my State, a situation which I very greatly regret. The Premier of South Australia, after claiming the expenditure of a record amount of money on homes, went on to say: 
Assistance from the Federal Labor Government means that we will increase this achievement markedly. 

 Mr Deputy President, he certainly needs to increase it markedly. He went on: 
We will set new records in providing public housing. 
One major new project will be the immediate commencement of a scheme to provide pre-fabricated rental housing of high standard in park settings. This will occur on transportcorridor land not required for fifteen years. In addition, to lessen transport costs and to provide greater choice in lowcost housing, we will build workers' housing in city and inner suburban areas. 
He then had a very strange heading to this particular part of his policy speech: 'Housing: ACTU '. His speech continued: 
We have previously used State-owned land to induce investment and development by non-governmental organisations. At West Lakes this is already providing housing. A similar scheme is under way at North Haven. 
As a continuation of this policy, we will over a period   n-ake  up to 300 acres of land in the Noarlunga area available to the Australian Council of Trade Unions to use for low-cost worker housing. 
At that particular period  Mr Hawke  made a statement of a companion nature on the ACTU's intention to build houses in the Noarlunga area of South Australia. It is rather significant, is it not, that after the election  Mr Hawke,  when questioned again, said: 'We have changed our minds. We now think we will go to an area around Sydney.' So much for  Mr Dunstan  's bright and brand-new program for great record housing figures in South Australia, because the situation under his management, when studied from the point of view that I am elucidating, will not bear very close scrutiny. I advise the Minister, as he is obviously part of a government which is becoming fairly generous in relation to certain particular fundings of housing projects, to look at the Government in his own State to see where the money is going. 
I have quoted the Housing Trust figures. I am dealing with figures of specific continuity which will stand up to scrutiny. The high spot in South Australian public housing was reached in 1960-61 when 3,299 units, flats and houses were completed. That figure was maintained in a general way until 1966-67, which was the last year in which the figure topped the 3,000 mark. That was the first real year of Labor Government in South Australia after the defeat of the Playford administration in 1965. It was really the completion of the last planning year under the Playford administration. It could be fairly claimed to be the end of government forward planning in the housing field under the Playford administration. Significantly it was the last year in which more than 3,000 units were completed. In 1967-68, which of course was the first real year of Labor administration in South Australia for 33 years, the figure had dropped significantly from 3,100 units to 2,236 units. The Minister would recognise that a drop of 900 units from 3, 100 units in one year is an extremely significant drop. 
Yes, exactly. However, the drop in the figure continued in 1968-69, which was the first year's operation of another government. That year could be fairly claimed to be the last of the 3-year period of Labor planning in the field of housing. The Walsh Labor Government and finally the Dunstan Labor Government of early 1968, left such a hole in South Australia's finances that it took several years of careful management by the new government before the finances of South Australia could in any way be expanded to take up the slack that had been created by the previous 3 years of Labor administration. However, leaving the years 1968-69 and 1969-70, which were the recuperative years under a Liberal-Country League government following 3 years of Labor administration, we find that there was an increase in the number of dwellings completed in 1 970-7 1 , which was the last real planning year of that 2-year non-Labor Government. The figure rose again to 2,200 completed units. However, in 1970 the Liberal-Country League Government was defeated and Labor again took over. 
In the short space of 4 years we saw an automatic and almost graduated decline from the figure of 2,200 units completed in 1970-71 which, as I have said, could be fairly claimed to be the result of the planning of the non-Labor government. Immediately the new effective planning year of Labor began to show results the figure dropped to 2,175 units. I admit that was a small drop, but then the dramatic drop began. The figure fell to 1,625 units in 1972-73 and to 1,321 units in 1973-74.  Mr Dunstan  in his policy speech claims that in our State of South Australia he has spent twice the national average on housing, and in support of that he produces a figure which will soon approach one-third of the record public housing figure which was proudly achieved as far back as 13 years before the period to which I have referred. 
It was a disgraceful performance in South Australia that a Labor administration which was handed on a plate the most efficient public housing authority which this nation has produced and which was the envy of other States has degraded that authority to such an extent that it is producing perhaps one-third of the number of units that it produced previously. It is a mere shadow of itself, yet  Mr Dunstan  claims a record expenditure on housing. I agree that he can spend money but naturally, being part of a socialist administration, he does not produce results. I invite the Minister to study carefully what is going on in South Australia because his Government has been duped in a larger measure than was provided for in the general year to year housing agreement which was negotiated at Premiers Conferences and which is now provided for under the new arrangements. 
-This Government has been very seriously duped and, in the process, the South Austraiian people, as well as the general taxpayers of Australia, will be the losers. This has happened because this Government has supported the development of the so-called new city of Monarto. The South Australian Labor Government decided to have an alternate growth centre, for Adelaide and it made an examination of sites around the city of Adelaide in a 40 to 50-mile radius. It deliberately chose the most arid area that it could find in that 40 to 50-mile radius. It has decided to build the new town of Monarto on a wind-swept hillside to the north-west of Murray Bridge which is in the hottest area that one could find in that region of the State. The South Austraiian Government talks of new forests, ornamental lakes and grand schemes for beautification until one can only believe that this area will be developed on the same grand scale as Canberra. Yet we hear talk of economic expenditure in public housing. 
One thing that has occurred with this aspect of the development of Monarto which should have been very foreign to a Labor administration is that for the first time in South Australia's history workers will be conscripted to go to live and work in Monarto. I should like the Minister to realise that under the housing policy which his Government supports in the development of Monarto workers in South Australia are to be conscripted by the State Government- in the words of the Premier- to go to live and work in Monarto. The personnel of the Lands Department and the Department of Agriculture in South Australia will have to uproot themselves from their social environment in Adelaide, shift to Monarto and live there or else they will not have their jobs. 
-This was stated in the words of the Premier of South Australia. It is no wonder that Labor senators from South Australia have been duped by their own Premier. He stated in the House of Assembly in South Australia that these workers cannot remain in Adelaide and keep their jobs. 
-He has said it. By interjection the honourable senator is either trying to introduce untruths into this debate or he is ignorant of the situation. I advise him to study Hansard and to question his own Premier. He has been more duped than I thought he was by the silver tongue of an orator who has not produced one worthy project on behalf of South Australia, except grand public relations that are managed from the 1 1th floor of a building by a battery of electronic devices. I urge this Government to watch very carefully the expenditure of the many millions of dollars that it has already provided to back the development of Monarto in those wind-swept paddocks. It should ensure that this project is subjected to the same study that the Redcliffs project on the shores of Spencer Gulf has been subjected to by a Commonwealth inquiry, and I will speak about that matter in another debate. But I congratulate the Commonwealth for the exhaustive study that it made of the Redcliffs project in respect of which the Dunstan administration was trying to mislead not only its own public but also the Minister's Government. If this Government applies the same standards to Monarto as it applied to the Redcliffs project it will get the same answerthe project is not viable. There is very serious public concern in South Australia that many millions of dollars of public money will be wasted. 
I come back to the Bill. Not only will we witness a further decline in the number of houses completed, to the extent that I have illustrated here tonight, but we will find that the provision of housing will be a great deal more expensive because of the type of funding which we are considering tonight. Monarto would be the most expensive area to make habitable that one could find within a 50-mile radius of Adelaide. Of course, Adelaide itself will be bled white by this expensive white elephant, and the Minister is supporting it by the provision of many millions of dollars by way of additional special grants. I urge him before it is too late to read carefully the volume of material which is now emanating from South Australia and to make sure that the funds that we are providing tonight are not wasted in  Mr Dunstan  's adventure at Monarto. 
It is not a matter of hoping that if fails. Everyone knows that Monarto will not live by itself. Everyone in South Australia who has considered the area knows that it will become a distant dormitory area for Adelaide. Of course Adelaide has developed a marvellous situation in relation to transport. In that city one can still build on a block of land and travel comfortably to the centre of the city for the performance of one's work every day. That most marvellous facility of travel is now to have superimposed on it a new creation which will be 40 miles away over the local range of hills and mountains at Monarto. Obviously in very great measure it will still be a dormitory area for Adelaide. It is obvious to any student of city development that the great overflow of population in Adelaide should go to the south, to the Noarlunga area and further down to the Willunga area, where living conditions are amenable and where it would cost to establish a living unit possibly less than three-quarters of what it would cost in Monarto. Tonight I am speaking, as I said at the beginning, on behalf of a State which had the proud record of being the most efficient home builder through its public funds of any State in this country. We have fallen to one of the worst. The reason is clearly available to us in the statistics. The fall coincided exactly with the planning years of Labor in South Australia. Now we have a government which has literally gone off its planning head. It is obvious that not only will it use Commonwealth money which in the future will be directed to Monarto but also, and above all, it is conscripting workers in South Australia to Monarto by saying: 'If you do not move there you will no longer have your job with this Government.' This is a disgrace in the face of Australia. It is a blot on South Australia's past magnificent housing record. 
I want to say in a few brief words that I agree with the assessment that  Senator Greenwood  made of the problem. But like others within his Party he continually, at great length, sets out the problem but offers no specific worthwhile cures for it. We have listened for something like half an hour, or close to it, to an exposition of that problem once again- an exposition which may very well have been given in 1946, 1949, 1955 or 1974.  His  exposition went not one whit further in proposing to this House and this Parliament a solution to that problem. I think it would well behove  Senator Greenwood  to bring up some definite and specific proposals from his Party rather than waste the time of this House telling all of us what we know. I suggest that if his Party on our side of politics wants to do something useful it might come out with some very firm unequivocal statement of what it is going to do about secret ballots for strike decisions and about the implementation of parliamentary disciplines in the election of union officials. My Party remains quite firmly and simply committed to the establishment of parliamentary democracy and the disciplines of parliamentary democracy in the union movement, as they should apply in this House. That is an unequivocable simple statement of policy.  Senator Greenwood  appears to have got nowhere except to have bored us with a 25-minute exposition of the problem. I agree with him as far as he took the matter. One would agree with the Victorian Government's dilemma and its attempts to overcome it. But for heaven's sake, if  Senator Greenwood  wishes to address the House at great length I hope that the next time he will have some solution. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
I direct my question to the Leader ofthe Government in the Senate. In view ofthe fact that the South Australian Government is considering the institution of a new system of recognition of its citizens under the title Company of Merit, which would have a companion of merit, an officer of merit and a member of merit as its gradations, I ask: Does the Commonwealth Government have any view about this matter? Is it liaising with the State Government in South Australia? Does it intend to establish at the Federal level some sort of award on the lines of that being considered by the State Government in South Australia? 1 ask that question in view of the general belief that the Australian Labor Party would adopt an egalitarian attitude and would not institute gradations of value betweeen members of the general community. I ask the Minister whether there is any liaison with the State Government in South Australia regarding the possible recognition of citizens. 
-Yes, they probably do. I may say that is a very good observation by  Senator Missen.  The Australia Party probably do regret giving their preferences to the Labor Party. The Government will of course, wreck the Australia Party's reward, if this Bill is passed with that particular clause still in it. 
I would also reject any thought of altering the full preferential system for the lower House voting. Whilst it is necessary to do something about it for the upper House, to alter the system in regard to the lower House is to take a long step towards the system of first past the post voting which the Labor Party will introduce in Australia, as soon as it controls both this House and the lower House. When that occurs there will have to be some sort of revolution in the organisation of non-Labor people in this country. I hope that it never occurs. 
Whilst this may be a big Party Bill- it seems that the Opposition regards it as such or sees the danger, and perhaps might react sensibly- I can see no disagreement between the Opposition and the Government on individual issues. No doubt there would be some variation in emphasis but I can see no variation in general consensus as expressed by anyone on this side of the House on the way the debate has been presented this afternoon. For that reason I cannot understand why we cannot get busy and pass the second reading of this Bill. Even if we adopt only three of the major measures and make use of them it will make the system just that little bit better. Not to do so to me seems to be hiding the real reason, whatever it is, that the second reading cannot proceed. 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral whether he is aware of a passage in the proposed indenture between the State of South Australia and the Redcliffs Petrochemical Co. Ltd- it is in sub-clause (2) of clause 25- which reads: 
For the purposes only of the Restrictive Trade Practices Act 1971 or any other legislation of the Commonwealth relating to trade practices whether passed in substitution therefor or otherwise (and only for such purposes) the State hereby approves those agreements practices arrangements acts or things in connection with the undermentioned matters which would, but for this Indenture, be a contravention of such act or other legislation. 
The sub-clause then goes on to list the matters which the State-- 
I agree almost entirely with  Senator Cotton's  remarks and the case that he makes for a better allocation of resources in Australia and a better method of reaching agreement on how those resources should be allocated. However, I do not share his optimism that this position can be arrived at easily and certainly not at the behest of the States. I remember very clearly being involved in South Australia in the presentation of a new financial approach to the Commonwealth Government. This approach was worked out between all State Premiers working together over a number of meetings- certainly more than 3 meetings- and many meetings held subsequently by the Under-Treasurers. A new updated and composite case was presented to the Commonwealth Government for resolution of the problems which bedevilled CommonwealthState financial relationships. 
All of the States were united in making a most impressive new-deal approach for the States in Australia. But they were united only until they got to the conference table and there was the final confrontation with the Commonwealth of Australia. Whilst there was no basic difference in the politics of the governments which confronted each other, the States immediately divided. After almost 12 months of hard slogging in order to compile an aggregation of ideas into an agreed approach to the Commonwealth, when the States approached the Commonwealth they divided on parochial interests. I say to  Senator 
Cotton that it was the Liberal governments that sold out the agreed approach. They were the governments of Victoria and New South Wales. When they obtained what they wanted to obtain in a separate offer outside the hard-won agreed State approach, and on a parochial basis, they left the agreement lamenting. The brand new agreement which was to be negotiated with the Commonwealth fell to nothing once again under the parochial interests of State governments. 
I believe that it would have been 1969. It took more than a year to work out the approach. It was documented and printed in a publication which I am sure is available in the Parliamentary Library. I believe that it would have been the most significant approach on financial matters to the Commonwealth since Federation, considering the seriousness with which the step was taken by the States and the seriousness with which they allegedly agreed to make the final presentation of the negotiated approach to the Commonwealth. As I have said, this fell to nothing when the parochial interests of the 2 larger States were satisfied by the Commonwealth government of the day. From a great deal of experience, because I was privileged to be involved in these negotiations and arrangements, I say with despair, to  Senator Cotton:  Under the best conceivable conditions for the States to come together, in that they were not divided politically one against the other, and under the best conceivable conditions for the promotion of their common stance in negotiations with the Commonwealth, the States divided when the pressure was on. I believe, and I say this, from experience, to  Senator Cotton:  The States are not capable of presenting a unified case to the Commonwealth. 
-No. I am not saying that at all. 1 say this to  Senator Cotton:  The arrangements were entered into, and the very hard work was proceeded with on the basis that Federation should work. I am a great supporter of that. South Australia played a very large part in the negotiations at that time because of the quality of its Under-Treasurer and his staff, which was of course recognised throughout Australia. It would be wrong not to face the fact that it was the States which fell apart and not the 
Commonwealth. It was not really the Commonwealth 's fault that the States fell apart. Not knowing the answer to  Senator Cotton's  question and agreeing with his basic assumption I say that the States so far have found themselves incapable of going about the business of arranging the solution which I think both  Senator Cotton  and I would like to find. 
I agree with that and I would like to have thought that the Federal Liberal-Country Party Government of the day would have done it, but it did not. It bought the States off individually so that it could destroy the approach that the States made to it. In that circumstance, I suggest that we will have to look at some other disciplines which will bring about the support of federation that both  Senator Cotton  and I want. 
Having said that, as a representative of a State which has a larger per capita debt than any other in the Commonwealth, I say how much I support that portion of this grant which is for the support of the capital works projects in my State. In so doing, I believe that I have an opportunity of spending a few minutes discussing a project in South Australia which, of course, is greatly allied to the dispersal of capital funds in my State, that is, the proposed Redcliffs project south of Port Augusta on Spencer Gulf. I take this opportunity of doing so because this subject is current in South Australia and is one which has provided great doubts as to the methods by which it has been handled by the State Government and as to the advisability of proceeding with the Redcliffs proposal. One of the reasons why there is doubt is the committal of State and Commonwealth loan funds which would be required as a basis for the building of the infrastructure which would stand behind the Redcliffs proposal. 
This proposal was first publicised in 1973 as part of the election program of the Premier of South Australia,  Mr Dunstan. His  proposal was introduced in his policy speech, under the heading 'Regional Growth Centres', in this fashion: 
South Australia's second regional growth centre will be established with the industrial integration of the three northern cities on our 'iron triangle '-Port Pirie, Port Augusta. Whyalla. 
As a take-off point, and the basis for a complex of new industries in those cities, the Government is already in an advanced stage of negotiation for the establishment at Redcliffs, 17 miles south of Port Augusta, of a $300m petrochemical industry of world scale, together with a fully integrated refinery to treat Cooper Basin and imported crude oil. 
These enormous works will have their own port facility. A liquid gas pipeline will be laid to Redcliffs, and natural gas will be provided to the 3 cities. The works will be established in such a way as to avoid ecological or environmental damage or pollution in the general area. 
That was the introduction of the matter. I remember clearly how I questioned  Mr Dunstan  during the election campaign as to what protection there would be of the environment of Spencer Gulf, especially in relation to the prawn industry, which is based on a very delicate environmental factor in those waters, and of course other factors of general pollution. The Premier's reply during the election campaign was that he had a report from the Department of Fisheries which gave the all clear to any possibility of the pollution of Spencer Gulf. I may say that the Premier, when asked after the election in 1973 to table the report in the House of Assembly in South Australia, said: 

 Mr Speaker, I have lost the page 
Pointing at me, he said: 
The previous Premier, I believe, has friends in the Premier's Department who have stolen it. 
I mention that matter only to illustrate to this House the very low standard which the South Australian Government has used to promote a most extensive and expensive new industry in my State. I may say that the proper promotion of this industry has been greatly handicapped by this low standard of approach. Before I leave the environmental factor I wish to remind the House that the Premier said in April before the 1973 election that the environmental question had been cleared; yet in May 1974, over one year later, a report of his own Government- of course, a report obtained under the pressure of politics in my State- under the heading of Effluents', in part of a very large report of the South Australian Department of Environment and Conservation, said that little information is yet available on the nature and quantities of plant effluents and noise. That was said over 12 months after the Premier had said that the all clear had been given. 
On the question of costs and planning the project has suffered very greatly indeed. In the State Parliament on 29 October of this year a colleague of mine asked a question concerning the costs of the project in very minute detail. I wish to give one of the Premier's answers to illustrate the slack, haphazard planning of this project. His reply reads: 
The original cost of the infrastructure is a difficult figure to quantify, because of the changing size of the complex and escalation in price. The power station, for instance, has risen in price because of these 2 factors from $9m in 1971, to $69.5m in 1977 price terms. 
If a project of this magnitude is to be sensibly promoted should we initially have everyone come in behind it on the basis of a cost of $9m which will now end up as $69m? That is just one further reason for doubting very greatly the situation which has been promoted in South Australia by the South Australian Government. 
I turn to the subject of supply. Whilst the Cooper Basin is expected to yield a very much greater total quantity of gas and liquids. than is known as yet, on present known reserves the Cooper Basin will supply the Adelaide and Sydney market for 12 years from 1977. If Redcliffs is included in that supply position the Cooper Basin, on known reserves, will be effective for 10 years. In relation to Adelaide alone it would have been effective for 1 9 to 20 years. It is contended by some that three major motives are involved in the promotion of the Redcliffs proposal. The Minister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Connor,  is not so much concerned about the establishment of a new industrial complex in South Australia but wants to use the future requirements of the Redcliffs proposal as a reason for building an intercontinental pipeline for gas to the northwest shelf of Western Australia. It is contended that the company concerned, through the indenture which I will mention directly, will get South Australian gas at most favourable terms and will be able therefore to supply in a major sense an overseas market and that  Mr Dunstan  will have a political advantage in being able to claim that he has at least produced one large new industrial complex in South Australia amongst the desert of his non-performance at the moment. 
It is interesting to note that the supply position in South Australia of the Redcliffs plant could be very much in jeopardy unless a pipeline is constructed out of the Cooper Basin fields in the future. It is also interesting to note what the Liberal Party spokesman for the Opposition in this House has said about such a pipeline. I refer the Senate to a statement in the House recently by  Senator Durack  in which, in reference to the intercontinental gas pipeline proposal, he said that he hopes that it has been abandoned because it is a ridiculous scheme which would be depriving Western Australia of a valuable resource. At this stage of the early consideration of the merits or demerits of an acrossthecontinent pipeline I do not become involved in a discussion as to whether that pipeline should or should not be built, but on the question of whether Redcliffs should be built to use the finite resources of the Cooper Basin I do become involved because the Party that is likely to be more often in government than the Party that is now in government has as its spokesman a person who says that the pipeline should not continue. Therefore, in planning the petro-chemical complex at the moment and in allocating to it the gas resources in South Australia one must consider the practical political point that it may very well not be backed by an intercontinental gas pipeline. That is a very important factor in saying whether the complex should proceed. 
I come now to the indenture about which I asked a question in the chamber this morning. I received access to this indenture only yesterday. 1 understand that it is a document that is still unavailable outside. I am astounded, as my question today indicated, that the State Government of South Australia is endeavouring to subvert the new trade practices legislation that has been passed by the Senate. It seems to me incredible. This Parliament, after great discussion, passed the trade practices legislation. The Opposition in this chamber, whilst it had strong feelings about certain provisions, did not prevent the legislation in the final assessment from passing. It can be said that the trade practices legislation has the approval of Federal Parliament. 
-That is for the honourable senator to say. It is his right to say it, but 1 do not think he voted against the third reading. Federal Parliament has approved the trade practices legislation which seeks to set up in Australia a fairer system of free competitive enterprise. The State Government of South Australia is trying to get around it and to make it void in relation to what would be, if it was proceeded with, one of the biggest industrial concerns in this nation. 
1 do not wish to confuse the issue or to downgrade the honourable senator's interjection. 1 do not wish to confuse this very vital question. I ask the honourable senator to bear with the argument on that basis. The Commonwealth Labor Government has promoted pioneering legislation in trade practices in Australia. A State Labor Government has introduced a specific clause to exempt this major new company from that legislation. I trust that  Senator Murphy  will treat this matter with sufficient gravity. I believe he will. I thank him for the answer so far to my question. I can now read this important clause more fully than the shorter passage that 1 had to read at question time. Part 25 (2) of the draft indenture states: 
For the purposes only of the Restrictive Trade Practices Act 1971 or any other legislation of the Commonwealth relating to trade practices whether passed in substitution therefore or otherwise (and only for such purposes) the State hereby approves those agreements practices arrangements acts or things in connection with the undermentioned matters which would, but for this Indenture, be a contravention of such act or other legislation. 
The matters hereinbefore referred to are- 
the acquisition of raw materials power steam and services for use in the Petrochemical Complex; 
the manufacture of chlorine caustic soda ethylene, ethylene dichloride polythene and any other products of the Petrochemical Complex or any part thereof by the Company; (iti) the sale or disposal of the aforementioned products to the Company South Australian  EDC  Company Limited, South Australian Ethylene Company Limited, South Australian Gasoline Components Company Limited, South Australian Polythene Company Limited, South Australian  Chlorakali  Company Limited, ICI Australia Limited, Alcoa of Australia Limited, or Mitsubishi Corporation or their respective subsidiaries (such companies are hereinafter collectively called 'the Companies'). 
the acquisition holding or disposal of shares in the Companies. 
the management of the Companies. 
It seems to me incredible and no wonder that  Mr Dunstan  has been keeping his indenture under wraps so that no one will see it until the day it comes before the Parliament. Of course it has not got there yet. The Committee of Inquiry that was set up very sensibly by the Commonwealth Government- I compliment it for doing so- and the. respective Federal Minister had to bring discipline to the question of the environment in this matter because the State Government was incapable, following the first standard that the Premier set, of looking after environmental questions of the Spencer Gulf in South Australia. I would say to  Senator Cotton,  if he were in the chamber, that it is another blow for federation that a State government cannot even look after the polluting effects of a proposal for its own gulf waters and that the Commonwealth must step in to look after the matter for the State Government. It is a blow for federation that the Commonwealth should have to do it. Thankfully it did. The finding of the commissioners was that the indenture was defective and that the Bill supporting it should not be passed until it was suitably amended. Of course negotiations have fallen down on this point. The companies and the State Government under Commonwealth discipline have been unable to agree and the indenture has not been proceeded with. I understand that the State Parliament is rising today. 
-First of all, I am not certain that the Labor Premier has been in touch with the Attorney-General. I understand that my colleague in South Australia will be inquiring about that today in another place. I do not wish to do the Attorney-General an injustice. I have not yet seen his reply in writing, which will be in Hansard. I understood him to say, firstly, that a State does have this power within its own borders but that it could come under the discipline of a regulation which the Attorney-General would have to frame under the Federal Trade Practices Act. I await the Attorney-General's further detailed reply, lt would be unfair to criticise him because obviously it would be a matter of some legal study. I hope that he continues what I thought was a good standard. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)-  Order! The Chair cannot condone senators interrupting another senator in the second reading debate, particularly when the remarks are inaudible to the Chair. 
I hope my remarks are not inaudible. I was addressing myself to the general question which is that it is most important, firstly, at the political level that there is apparently a division within the Labor Party at the State and Federal level as to the intentions of what I thought was a very firmly held precept of the Party and, secondly, that it has been done under cover and that the public, while talking very rightly in South Australia about the environmental prospects of Redcliffs, should have this sort of thing done on the quiet without being able to answer it publicly. 
There are other points about this indenture which are also defective. Whilst there is great public argument about the requirements of the indenture and its disciplines on the company, I find that there are 15 points on which the company itself might void the indenture. One of them is simply if the project does not appear to be viable. But the indenture may be varied with the written agreement of either party. This great $800m complex, that the funds about which we are talking in part would support, may be varied, despite the public argument and the indenture which is to go through the State Parliament, in writing by both parties, the company and the State Government, as long as the variation is not a substantial variation. It is within the province of the Government to define the meaning of the term 'substantial'. I could go on for a while but it would not do any service to the Senate. I bring to the attention of the Senate the gravity of the situation in South Australia and the extremely low standard which the State Government started in presenting this project and which has continued through the negotiations. The fact is that it has hidden from the people of South Australia some of the more obnoxious proposals of the indenture. I ask in this debate that the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy)  view with considerable gravity the question I put to him today. In general terms this is a proposal which South Australia needs. We need the industrial base it can give us. We need it to bring to South Australia an additional liquids pipeline from the Cooper basin so that gas producers can market a valuable but limited production of petroleum in liquid form from that basin but we do not need it at any cost. We do not need it at the destruction of the environment of Spencer Gulf; we do not need it at the destruction of the operation of free competitive trade in Australia. I ask the Federal Government to take the same disciplines in regard to other parts of the indenture as it has taken in relation to the part which has included the environment of South Australia. 
As a representative of one of the recipient States included in this States Grants (Special Assistance) Bill 1974, 1 am pleased to speak in support of it. I want to take a few minutes in which to mention a particular theme which I think is allied to this legislation. I was pleased that  Senator Cotton  referred to the principles which are mentioned in the second reading speech of the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt).  Whilst  Senator Cotton  mentioned that a new method of assessing the appropriate amount of grant has been used, he also went on to say that the change does not reflect any alteration in the basic principles on which the Grants Commission operates. Although I was aware of the general tenor of the basic principles under which the Commission operates, like  Senator Cotton  I referred back to them and read them again. I find them, for the purposes of the theme which I said I want to develop on this Bill, to be extremely useful. The principles are clearly set out first in the third report of the Commission in 1936, which  Senator Cotton  has mentioned. 
I find the Commission's conclusion very helpful indeed, and the one that I have taken as my chief guideline is the one which states that special grants are justified when a State, through financial stress from any cause, is unable efficiently to discharge its functions as a member of the federation and should be determined by the amount of help found necessary to make it possible for that State by reasonable effort to function at a standard not appreciably below that of other States. Of course, that standard refers basically to the living standards of the people within that State. The system adjudicated or recommended by the Grants Commission has been one of the great features which has underpinned living standards across this wide continent. It is one of the great features which has built the States into the strength which they now enjoy. We can look at each State in Australia and look at their respective strengths. The strength of the smaller States has depended, without doubt, on the extra grants that they have received over the entire operations of the Grants Commission. Of all government documents, the reports of the Grants Commission, I believe, are the most lucid and easily read. Over the long years that the Commission has been operating now, I think it should be complimented on the clear and explanatory way in which it has reported to the public and, of course, to Parliament. 
But there are other amplifications of the principles which I think are also important. On page 78 of its third report, the Commission under the heading 'Principles' said, in extract, this about the States: 
Whenever they ure in this position we say that special grants should bc made, and should bc determined by the amount of help found necessary to make it possible for the State by a reasonable effort to function at a standard not appreciably below that of other States. 
They are the words that were used in the original statement to which I made reference earlier. The report continues: 
Thus we base special grants on needs . . . We have said that there is no other course for the Commonwealth but to come to the assistance of a State when a strict examination of financial position shows no hope of its continued solvency except by special assistance. 
This is something of an aside, but a rather interesting one. The report continues: 
This is not strictly true, and there are two alternatives. One is to exclude the State from the federation by an amendment of the Constitution; but, as that would leave the Commonwealth responsible for the State's debts, it could hardly be chosen as a practical alternative to a special grant. The other alternative is for the Commonwealth to take over the government of the State in risk of default and administer it as a territory. 
The possibilities of this happening at present seem remote but they are not to be disregarded. When I read that paragraph in the report I somewhat obliquely thought of Queensland and the Commonwealth's present problems with that State. I wondered whether Queensland would prefer, if the Commonwealth would like to manipulate its grants situation and the backing it gives to Queensland, that the Commonwealth forced Queensland into being a separate State outside the Constitution or whether the Commonwealth would like to take it over as a Territory. I assume that the Commonwealth is interested in neither of those propositions at the moment. In the summary of its 1974 report the Grants Commission said: 
To assess the amount of these needs the Commission has compared the fiscal capacity of each claimant State with that of New South Wales and Victoria, taking into account differences in revenue-raising capacity and differences in the cost of providing comparable services. A two-State standard, based on a simple average for New South Wales and Victoria, was first adopted for the year of review 1 960-6 1 , following a change in financial arrangements between the Australian Government and the States under which South Australia ceased making annual applications for special grants to be recommended by the Commission. 
South Australia subsequently in 1970, 1 think it was, came back under the Grants Commission. But the most important point relevant to the argument I am developing is that, as we know here, it is a 2 -State standard, taking into account differences in revenue raising capacity and differences in the cost of providing comparable services. South Australia, according to many available present day statistics, has a lower standard of operation than have other States. It is certainly lower than that of the 2 States which are taken as a standard for the study of the Grants Commission. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
-Before the suspension of the sitting I was developing the theme that South Australia in being judged by the Australian Grants Commission against the standard set by the 2 large States in Australia would obviously be poorer in a number of ways which can be proven statistically. I was going to refer to one or two of these points. The Commission stated in its report this year that in recent years South Australia and Tasmania have had growth rates well below the Austraiian average. That, of course, is a significant reference to the lack of progress within South Australia. In relation to personal income on page 10, the report states: 
. South Australia (including the Northern Territory) is approximately 8 per cent below. New South Wales (including the Australian Capital Territory) and Victoria are well above the other States. 
That indicates that South Australia is below by approximately 8 per cent. The report states further on page 1 1: 
The 1972-73 figures show Queensland, South Australia and Tasmania in a range 10 to 13 per cent below the Australian average and Western Australia 4 per cent below that average. 
That relates to personal consumption expressed as expenditure per head of population. Therefore, quite provably the States- including the 2 claimant States, but particularly South Australiaare in need of financial assistance. 
I want to refer specifically to the imposition by South Australia of rural land tax. This is something which is of very great importance to rural people in my State. It is important because South Australia is the only State on the mainland which charges rural land tax. It is becoming a matter of very great concern to rural producers, despite statistics which still reflect the boom of a year ago. Producers are, in some aspects, now particularly hard hit by a very severe increase in the amount of rural land tax that they have to pay. It is one thing to complain but it is another to prove that the complaints are justified. I repeat that the South Australian Government is the only government in Australia on the mainland which levies rural land tax in isolation. South Australia is one of the two remaining claimant States. However, even more important than this, the standards which are set by the Commission have a big bearing on whether Western Australia should in fact charge rural land tax. The Commission, under its heading of 'Assessment of Financial Need ' uses this standard: 
In making this direct calculation, the claimant State's financial needs have been assessed as the sum of: 
) its revenue needs, defined as the difference between 
the revenue it would have raised if it had applied the average revenue effort of the standard States ... to its own revenue base, and 
the revenue it would have raised, on the basis of the standard revenue effort, if its per capita revenue base. . . had been the same as the average revenue base of the standard States; 
The third point raised by the Commission is, in effect, that the States which are claimant States should apply, in the standard of their own revenue raising, the same standard as the 2 major States. The point about this argument is that Victoria and New South Wales do not levy rural land tax. Yet South Australia which has to measure up against them for claiming special assistance under the Grants Commission does levy rural land tax. The Commission makes further reference to standards which are expected. Under the heading of 'The Budget Standard' it states: 
. after consideration of submissions by, and evidence from, the representatives of the Australian Treasury and the claimant States, the Commission decided that it would adopt a two-State standard based on the simple average of the budgetary experience of New South Wales and Victoria. 
In other parts of its report the Commission lists the categories which are considered. The report states: 
The main categories into which revenue and expenditure have been classified for this purpose are: 
Revenue 
all forms of taxation; 
land revenue; 
mining royalties and revenue; 
other revenue. 
The situation, therefore, is that on a comparable basis South Australia should not need to penalise its rural producers with a tax which the other States do not levy. The Commission makes a direct reference to land tax in this financial year's report. In section 4.86 of page 65 of the report it states: 
It does not accept the argument that it should assess needs for land revenue by considering revenues from land tax and land rentals together, in relation to the aggregate of unimproved land values, as suggested by the Queensland and Australian Treasuries. This is partly because of the valuation problem mentioned by South Australia and partly because, like South Australia, the Commission does not believe that freehold and leasehold tenure can be regarded as having the same revenue-raising capacity. Differences in revenueraising capacity as between land taxes and land rents do not only reflect past differences in State alienation policies. They also reflect a tendency in the standard States to exempt rural land from land tax, thus largely removing rural land from the base on which taxes are levied. 
The Commission itself, without dealing with it as a major aspect, in passing, says that rural land taxes are largely removed from the basis on which taxes are levied. Of course, land taxes between the States largely reflect in their great majority that land tax which is gained from other than rural lands. In South Australia, as a rough comparison, the total yield from land tax is about $10m and rural land tax is about $ 1.35m of that total of $ 10m. 
As I understand it, the Commission has not fully categorised the types of land taxes for the purposes of a true comparison but the principles under which the Commission searches for its standard and establishes a standard are clearly set out in the last reference which the Commission made in relation to these standards. The practical exemption of land tax as a base is there for all to read. 
South Australia, of course, has a number of small holdings and yet pays a remarkably heavy amount of land tax on a per capita basis. New South Wales land tax collections in 1972-73 on a per capita basis were $9.94; Victoria, $8.20; Queensland, $3.20 and South Australia $8.00. 1 know that the other States exempt rural land from land tax. Our tax, as at current values, would be a little higher in that relationship. A true figure for South Australia would probably be $7m instead of $8m. When one compares the eastern States of Victoria and New South Wales with their huge capital cities of Melbourne and Sydney, the headquarters of financial and industrial empires of Australia, with South Australia, one realises that South Australia pays a remarkably heavy per capita amount of land tax, excluding rural land tax. The estimated rural component for 1973-74 for South Australia is $l,375m. 
The South Australian Government simply refuses to listen to any plea from its citizens about this question. As recently as the last few weeks it has refused to act in the House of 
Assembly in South Australia. The type of increases I am talking about are quite significant. I will give 3 examples of the recent current revaluation which is proceeding in South Australia in rural areas. I will give this illustration of 3 examples in the mid-north of South Australia. They are all one-man operated properties which will, certainly in normal times, return just a living and some small excess, and at the present rate of incomes they may return less than that. The first property comprises 1,397 acres and on it the previous land tax payable was $98.88; it is now $480.94. The second property comprises 1,233 acres on which the previous land tax payable was $ 127.89; it is now $887.50. The third property comprises 2,218 acres on which the previous land tax payable was $ 169; it is now $1,066.66. 
Lest the Minister run away with the idea that because grain, on a unit basis, is returning, an extremely high price at the moment, let me tell him that not everyone is enjoying that bonanza. There are people living not far from where I live who for 3 successive years have lost their wheat crops through disease, and that is the only agricultural activity which would have any likelihood of making a return of capital investment in my district and in most of South Australia at this time. So the call for justice is a very strong one in South Australia on behalf of rural landholders. It is a call which is not being answered by the South Australian Labor Government and the rural producers in South Australia are therefore subjected by their State Government to a lower standard of living than any other producer on the Australian mainland, because no other producers have to pay this particular tax. If one looks at the per capita usage of superphosphate in South Australia one will note the added expenses in other directions incurred in that State which some of the more fortunate areas of Australia are not involved with. 
So I make the plea that somehow somewhere the South Australian Government be made aware that it is making charges on South Australian rural producers which it does not have to make, and that if it lifted them and did not proceed with them the Grants Commission would make good to South Australia the revenue thus forgone because that is the standard upon which the Grants Commission operates. The South Australian Government is needlessly taxing South Australian rural producers. The State Government would not suffer as a State administration from lost revenue because the Grants Commission would make it up, and what we vote on here year by year would reflect the added sustenance given by the Grants Commission if the State Government acted as it ought to act. So I make the plea, at this specific and proper time when we are dealing with the passage of grants recommended by the Grants Commission, that the South Australian Government should stop depressing an important section of its citizens to a lower standard of living than is required by the Grants Commission. 
This Bill contains some major items which I would like to see defeated but it also contains, in the words of  Senator Missen,  many excellent ideas. It is obvious that the Opposition is using every excuse it can find not to deal with the Bill. Nearly every  speaker  has expressed some support for something or other within the Bill yet the Opposition says, for some mysterious reason, that it cannot accept a package deal. Why it says that, I do not know because it has the capacity to defeat every clause which is not suitably amended to meet its wishes. No convincing argument has been given to the Senate why we should not proceed to examine this Bill, with all its great detail, sorting out principle from detail where necessary, and allowing to pass what both sides of the House obviously agree on. There must be a reason why the Opposition does not wish to do this but it has not stated that reason. 
Firstly, I cannot understand why the Opposition adopts this attitude since the last Senate election was held in great controversy about the effect of very long papers on which very many voting details were required. I know that the Party leaders gave their ideas at that time on what ought to be the solution to this greatly extended detail which faced the voters. I think  Mr Anthony,  the Leader of the Country Party, gave quite a detailed assessment of the views of his Party about the number of preferences that should be required. Any Party that has not formed a view of how to handle Senate voting procedures since the election of 1 8 May is not capable of governing. That is a simple fact of life. Many months have been available to a Party which has chosen shadow Ministers to meet the responsibilities of Ministers of the Government. It is quite ineffectual for the Liberal Party to say that it has not had the time to deal with those matters in relation to which it has already a publicly stated view or which are simple in their procedure and in the manner in which they need to be assessed. 
There are some issues which I am sure every honourable senator would support. I intend to vote for the second reading of the Bill in the rather hopeless search for an opportunity to deal with those issues on which I am sure all honourable senators would be in agreement. Although I intend to vote for the second reading of the Bill, this does not mean that I give my support to a number of the issues which 1 think have been fairly well stated by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers).  I do not have a great deal of disagreement with his objections to some of the issues with which he dealt. But it is plain that the Opposition in the main is dealing with objections and refuses to look at those issues on which the Senate would concur. The provision to upgrade the oversight in relation to voting in hospitals is extremely necessary. Following the last federal election, my Party in South Australia had very serious talks with the Commonwealth Electoral Officer in South Australia on the basis of misconduct we believe occurred in electoral voting in the division of Boothby which is now represented by  Mr John  McLeay. My Party was very dissatisfied indeed with the ethics or lack of ethics exhibited by the South Australian Liberal Party in that division at that election. 
In fact, the South Australian Liberal Party was very defective in its approach and incurred the wrath of all smaller parties, including the Australian Country Party, which was bitterly resentful of the way in which it too was treated by the Liberal Party in South Australia. It protested publicly. Our Party sent an official letter of complaint to the Electoral Officer asking him to prosecute the Liberal Party for what we believed was a serious malfunction and breaking of the laws provided under the Electoral Act in South Australia. This was particularly so in relation to the fact that the Liberal Party advertised widely that a vote for any minor party was a vote for the Labor Party. Our Party was not the only party affected; the Country Party was distinctly affected also. I am pleased to see, however, that the Country Party is taking its own electoral action and now intends to fight very heavily for its own federal representation in South Australia. May I say that in relation to those areas which naturally belong to that Party I wish it well, and I will assist it. 
Let me return to the point about the breaking of electoral laws. I believe that we certainly need to tighten those laws. If they are amended, especially in relation to voting in hospitals, the standard adopted by the Liberal Party in South Australia during elections will be lifted. Despite the fact that the Liberal Party may have been a chief offender in this regard in my State, I am sure that it would have to support any proposal put to the House which seeks to upgrade the electoral laws. 
The use of frivolous names also needs to be controlled. In bringing in his Bill in the lower House the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  illustrated this need by mentioning one or two names that have been used in the past. Certainly one name that was used in previous years was the Happy Birthday Party. The use of that name may have been a rather humorous way of livening an election, but it did not really add to the seriousness of the result. The Stop Asian Immigration Now Party was another name that was used as a device. This practice certainly needs to be controlled because once it is entered into there is no end to the ingenuity that may be used to confuse the electors or simply to reduce the quality of the result that can be obtained by a serious consideration of proper people or proper parties. 
I do not support the provisions of the legislation which are concerned with the registration of parties. On this issue, as I understand it, the Bill is built specifically to support a 2-party system in Australia. It is aimed at putting in the hands of the electoral officers and the electoral machinery means by which small parties can be suppressed, and this extends through to the amount of deposit which is required and the registration of names. The registration of a name is not always a simple matter. I remember what happened in 1 973 when the Liberal and Country League in South Australia was going through the convulsion of splitting. It gave prior notice to those of us who now form the Liberal Movement that we would be given an ultimatum as to whether we should get out of the League. Several days beforehand I went to the Companies Office to see about registering a name since we were to be given an ultimatum to get out. I found that the Liberal and Country League in South Australia had, a few days beforehand, registered the name of Liberal Party of Australia- South Australian Division. It was rather ironic that that name was not used for a year. I found also that the League had not registered the name which it had been using since 1932. The name of Liberal and Country League had never been registered up till that time, and I suspect that it has never been registered at all. But the members of the League took the precaution of registering a new name to prevent someone else in South Australia from using it. Good luck to them. They did not worry us. We have our own name. However, it was an interesting finding and it is an illustration of how people can be smart about names. They can perhaps forestall the proper use of names by others. 
I believe that is only a small aspect of the general aggregation of electoral muscle given to political parties by the fact that they become officially recognised. We then take the spectacle of democracy out of the hands of the individual and give this power to the type of organisations, of whatever sort- commercial or political- which have been known around the world at particular times to be less than savoury. So I do not believe that we should shift the emphasis from the individual to the organised party in the recognition of the electoral machinery. I think that is a very big mistake and it is one of the major drawbacks of this Bill. 
Perhaps 1 should list the items in the Bill of which I approve and for which reason I will support the second reading of the Bill. I support the proposal in relation to voting procedures in hospitals. I support also the control of misuse of obviously frivolous or harmful names. Balloting for names on postal ballots is an essential part of the system in order to remove the search for candidates whose surname begins with a letter as close to 'A' as possible. It is a silly search really because it does not take into account loyalty to the party, service to the community or the quality of a candidate. For a party to choose a person whose name starts with 'A' is demoralising to the political system. 
A system of preferential voting for Senate elections is, I think, something to which practically all political leaders have subscribed since the last Senate election. As I have said, I remember one Country Party leader in particular who had a detailed plan to overcome this problem, and it seems that the Government has met it pretty well in its proposals in relation to preferential voting in Senate elections. The adoption of those proposals would be subject to varying opinions, of course, but I could not imagine that any party would not have in the time since 18 May developed an official view which could be put to this debate on this matter. That would not be imaginable. 
So we ought to deal with those issues. It is worth giving the Bill a second reading so that we can get to them. They are important. I believe it could easily be said that the big majority of the members of this House would agree with them. Why should we forgo consideration of them because, for some technical political inter-party reason, the Liberal Party does not want to consider this Bill in Committee? That just does not seem to me to be a reasonable proposition. I repeat that the Opposition has the final safeguard. No clause can be passed without its approval. What the Opposition proposes just does not seem to be a decent way in which to deal with an important piece of legislation. 
There is one other issue which 1 would like to see attended to, and this could be done during the Committee stage of the Bill. The Bill intends to prohibit members of the new Assemblies in the Territories from standing for Federal Parliament. I think that the Bill is wrong in this regard, having come through this experience recently myself. It did not hurt me personally to resign from a State Parliament and stand for a Federal position. At no time were we as a party fearful of not winning that position. But it does seem to me to be an injustice that a person involved in a State Parliament is unable to offer easily, or at least safely, whatever experience he or she has to the Federal Parliament on behalf of a State. I can see no justification for treating members of State Parliaments in a different way from members of the Public Service or members in any private activity. To me it is an inhibition which is distinctly harmful to a State because it prevents State experience being brought to the Federal scene on behalf of the State. If it does not prevent it, it certainly inhibits it. In a practical sense, it prevents it. I would certainly vote against a clause which attempted to extend that provision to the Territories. I would prefer to leave those people free to serve their Territories, after they have had experience in State assemblies, in this House or in the other place. During the Committee stage of this debate I will certainly move an amendment to try to delete that whole clause. I think we would be doing the States and the country a better service than we might understand. 
I believe that the deposits required of candidates are too high. Compared to the deposit paid in the United States and other countries, I think we are going too high. This tends to fall in with the general proposition in this Bill- that it is meant for 2 major parties in Australia. I have received some literature from the Australia Party which I have no doubt other honourable senators have received. I imagine that the Australia Party would have well lobbied the Parliament of Australia. I think it is worth reading a couple of paragraphs of a letter from the National Campaign Director of the Australia Party. In part it states: 
In its short-sighted way, the Labor Party has endeavoured to ensure that the deposit requirements are weighted in favour of itself and its largest competitor, the Liberal Party. Under the Bill, the Country Party, DLP, Liberal Movement and Australia Party would all suffer severe financial difficulties compared with those major groupings. While it may suit both the Liberal and Labor Party to conspire -  1 do not charge conspiracy, I am reading this document-- 
To rig the system in this way, we believe that the interests of Australians demand action to put the case favouring the right of individuals and small groups to seek support from their fellow Australians. 
Obviously, the Bill in its weaker sections owes much to a yearning on the part of some Labor Party members for the days when political life was simply a contest between the major parties. 
I believe that is the yearning of the Federal Minister in so framing this particular clause. 

 - Mr Acting President, I seek leave to make a statement. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I seek leave really to ask a question, I suppose. As a newcomer to the Senate the procedures are somewhat strange to me. This is the first time that this has happened since I have been a member of the Senate. If there is no third reading debate, I would like to have the opportunity of expressing my regret that this Bill was not worked on in its latter stages to an extent that would have enabled it to be passed in some suitably agreed amended form. I very much regret that. I would like some explanation of the reason for  Senator Greenwood's  motion that a committee be formed to take up the responsibility of disagreeing. 
It might be, but there is no explanation to the Senate. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- For the benefit of the Senate, I point out that this Bill has in fact been read a third time in this chamber. The Bill was read and was transmitted to the House of Representatives where it was also read a third time. The amendments were not agreed to by the House of Representatives and were returned to the Senate. As the Committee of the Whole has not agreed to those amendments this afternoon, a third reading does not arise in the Senate and it will not be until the message is transmitted to the House of Representatives and is returned that there will be any further debate here. 
-Thank you,  Mr Acting President,  for a very full explanation. 
My remarks also will be brief. I am pleased to support the Opposition's view that this Bill should be defeated. In fact, if the Opposition had proceeded in this chamber with its move in the Lower House to amend the Bill suitably I would have voted for the defeat of every amendment and left the Bill in a state completely obnoxious to the Opposition so that it would have had to defeat it on the motion for the third reading of the Bill. That is certainly the course I would have followed if the Opposition had done in this House as the Opposition did in the House of Representatives. I have taken that view after a great deal of discussion with many people on all sides of the question of whether this amending Bill should be passed. 
I had spoken in the first instance to television interests, including the local television management in South Australia. I have spoken to representatives of the Broadcasting Control Board and I have spoken to representatives of radio and to other people interested in this matter. Like, I am sure, other honourable senators I have been inundated by requests to oppose these amendments to the Broadcasting and Television Act on behalf of the children of Australia because of the standard of the program it has been said will be foisted on them if the Bill is passed. Out of all of this conjecture, statements and assessments I have concluded that the Bill is too dangerous to be passed. 

 Senator Everett can say that it is an emotional decision if he likes, but I believe that the Bill is dangerous because there is a very great rush at the moment to control the media in Australia. There have been words spoken about this matter in debates on other Bills in this House. Again I draw the attention of the Senate to what is happening in other forms of the media, particularly in South Australia. I have in front of me a copy of what has happily been defeated in the South Australian Parliament. It is the Privacy Bill which, in a most obnoxious form, was introduced in South Australia to restrict greatly the ability of the media and the private citizen to speak its and his mind in the South Australian community. That Bill went as far as to make it an offence to use a fact which was likely to annoy. That was a legislative arrangement which the Dunstan Labor Government tried to institute in South Australia. 
In addition to that, however, there has been a very great attempt at thought control in South Australia. On the eleventh floor of the Premier's Department building there is a new barrage of electronic media which is feeding out taped messages to the Press. The day is fast passing in my State when the media can question Ministers of State at first hand. The Press is to receive and is receiving recorded messages as answers to its queries. Of course no searching inquiry can be made of recorded messages. One will receive simply what the Government will give. It has reached such a state in South Australia that the public has never been told, for instance, that the State Government Insurance Office has an accumulated loss of $4m. The media is not interested in printing it because the Premier of the day has said: 'It is all right. We will be making a loss for the next 10 years. I have told you it is all right and it is all right.' The public of South Austrafia has never been told and is not likely to be told. That is a reverse type of thought control. 1 abhor the situation that could develop under this Bill when very considerable additional controls would be given to the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. I have been told that in certain quarters of the television management area there has been a pervasive influence of threat that has come out of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board's view of the situation, and that it had been expected that this legislation would come before the Parliament because certain statements needed the backing of legislation and certain powers had to be confirmed. The Minister has gone too far. If he wanted to strengthen existing powers, he should have tried to strengthen existing powers. He should not have tried to spread a net of this width and strength that has certainly greatly alarmed the media wherever I have met its members. One can assume only that this Bill is really a statement of no confidence in the existing negotiating powers of the Board. I could not imagine that the Board, with the powers in the existing Act, could not effectively go to management of the media and demand and get co-operation. Its basic power is the power not to renew a licence. If that is not a basic power, I do not know what is. Therefore, the atmosphere in which the Minister brings this Bill into the Senate is not a happy one. There has been this attempt in South Australia. The Minister has said in the Senate in answer to a question that it is Government policy to have a national newspaper. He did not explain how far government thinking has gone on this matter. I do not wish to misrepresent him, but I think he said that it is under discussion. He certainly left the matter in the air in the sense that he said that it was current government policy. 
Yes. I will not misrepresent the Minister. I do not wish to do so. I accept what he said. I think it serves my purpose equally as well that it is government policy to have a feasibility study into the proposition to have a national newspaper in Australia. I utterly reject the thought that there should be such a vehicle. I say to the Minister that it is not a good atmosphere in which the Minister asks the Senate to approve extensive increases in the Control Board 's powers. With the policy standing as it is in that regard, the example of what another type of Labor government will do in a State and the powers that the Minister asks for now, I must vote against this Bill. 
It is conceivable that there could be some interference with the presentation of the news or some slanting of reporting from a private source, but it is quite ridiculous to say that there is no risk of that from a government controlled source. It is quite fatuous to insist that one has a better morality than the other in relation to what it could do to twist the news media. If we look at what has happened in other countries we see very many instances of governments using and twisting the media and in fact re-writing history by their use of the media. This is going on in very many countries at the moment. We do not want to give our Government the means to do that in this country. We want to leave established the checks and balances that exist today. If after some further time the Board requires an increase in or a substantiation of its power to meet future challenges that will be engendered to its determinations, let this Minister or some other Minister bring the proposal to the Senate. Whoever the Minister is, he should realise that in solving the problem he should not bring forward a blanket proposal such as the proposal that is now brought forward. 
I do not believe we should be extreme in passing this Bill. We should meet the situation and be encouraging the Board to be as co-operative as it can with private industry. I pay tribute to the leaders of the television and radio networks that have spoken to me, to the views that they have and to the track record that they have. In my opinion and in my experience they have not been obstructive to the desires and wishes of the Control Board. Why should they be penalised? Why should they be threatened? Why should their future development be cast under some sort of cloud because of a few who might cause a malfunction in the system? As I understand it, the negotiating powers of the Board have not been fully used in respect of its intentions if it says that its Act at the moment is not strong enough. 
I do not distrust the present Minister, whose work I have admired on a number of occasions, but that is not the point in passing legislation. The point is this: To what extent would powers be put into the Act if this amending Bill were passed? The proposed Act would be available to some future Minister, of whatever type of politics, whose intensity of administration and determination to control is as yet unknown to the Parliament. For those reasons I will join the Opposition in voting to defeat this Bill. 

 - Mr Deputy President, I have a great deal of sympathy with the remarks made by  Senator Wood  because it would be delightful to honourable senators on this side of the chamber to throw out this legislation which I believe prejudices greatly the future development of Australia. However, any thoughts in that direction must be cut short because of the particularly bad judgment which was shown by the Opposition in forcing an election in May of this year. That undercut any future action that might be taken in a time of crisis. The decision taken prior to May was completely unjustified insofar as any excuse was used to justify the use of numbers in this House as they were then used. There was not then a national crisis. Over many months, as  Senator Greenwood  knows, the desire was expressed to regain power at all costs, but there was no consideration of the issues before the Federal Parliament of the state of the nation. I, of course, have a great deal of sympathy with the idea put forward by  Senator Wood  that the better course of action to adopt would be to throw out this legislation, but the very fact that he joined earlier this year with other members of the Opposition in forcing a double dissolution in this Parliament which could not be justified on any sensible grounds has quite prejudiced any future action on that account. 
I regret the introduction of this legislation. It in fact seeks to increase taxation which ought to be decreased. The tax on savings, which the 10 per cent surcharge on unearned income represents, hits directly at industry in Australia, hits directly at employment opportunities in Australia and hits directly at the acccumulation of savings, which is badly needed in this country. The Government is in fact saying that it believes that saving is bad and that it is not good to save, and to accumulate capital and to invest it. If one does so one will be penalised. One will have added to an already exhorbitant rate of tax an additional surcharge which will inhibit future savings. It would be very unusual if there was one honourable senator in this House who had not heard someone say in the last few weeks that he is not going to save any further, that he believes it is simply not worth the effort and that no recognition is given to and there is very little reward for thrift. The type of action which is deliberately encouraged by the Government is the opposite to what is needed for national development. Australia which has been renowned in the past among comparable countries for its savings, for its accumulation on a per capita basis, will begin to fall from that favourable position because it is the Government's policy to discourage such savings. Legislation is very bad if it works against the basis of development. As much as people may preach that development has been harmful it is only now in the last  1  decades that the public is beginning to become aware that it is development which provides employment and it is employment which is needed by those who are now suffering from the diminishing opportunities in this country. 
These tax rates are directly inflationary. There is nothing more inflationary at the moment than the heavy and high demand for increased salaries and wages, which in part is very largely encouraged by the high rate of marginal taxation. If one looks at the Schedule attached to the Income Tax Assessment Act one will find' that the marginal tax on the early rate has, by today's inflationary values, become almost a tax of confiscation. One will see by studying the rates- I need not enumerate them to the Senate as they are in every honourable senator's file- that there is a level at a very early stage of today's values at which taxation diminishes the incentive to earn additional sums to such a degree that we will find a retreat from the area of further endeavour and a retreat from the area of savings. 
I was amused to see in yesterday's newspapers a report of  Mr Hawke  's remarks that the recent salary increase to public servants will not be inflationary and that it will have no direct effect on prices. What a fatuous, inaccurate and misleading statement it is to make to the Australian public to say that any sector of it- any large sector such as this- can demand and obtain a huge increase in salaries that will have no effect on prices in this community. The theory as enunciated by the  President  of the Australian Labor Party is that the Public Service is somehow insulated from the general price structure in Australia. That is patently untrue. The taxes which will continue to be tolerated on the progressive tax scale that we have in Australia will of course be almost as much inflationary as any other factor in this community. 
Action will have to be taken by the Government and by this Parliament really to attack the pro blem of inflation or else we will see year by year the introduction of a further series of Bills aimed at taking more from the private sector and funnelling it through to the public sector. Unless we are to see that year by year we must see in its place a real attack on inflation in this community. It does not require much reading of the works of economists in Australia to know where the fault lies at the moment. In almost every work of economists that one reads one finds a call for restraint. It is usually at the tail end and most often in one sentence because the problem is too hard politically for these people really to spell it out, but they say that we must also have restraint from the union movement. I have not read one report on this subject by an economist in recent months who has not said that somewhere in his recommendations. Of course, we do not have it. The call of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to the unions of Australia to respond in support of indexation on the basis that they are going to be offered a benefit of about $6 a week at the maximum in taxation deductions is also fatuous. How does that compare with the recent application for an increase of $ 1 8 a week that is to go before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission within a few weeks. By comparison that $6 is nothing. It is chicken feed compared with what has been obtained by direct industrial confrontation. My forecast is that the Government's request of the union movement has already failed. 
There is only one factor which will come to grips with inflation and that is statutory control of salaries and wages. The justification for that is quite clear. It is interesting to go back to the referendums of May when two of the major proposals were the transfer of power to the Federal 
Government to control prices and the companion and parallel move to control wages and salaries. It was very interesting to find that the Liberal Party of Australia mounted a very vehement, effective and successful attack on both propositions. The basic premise of the Liberal Party's attack, which I agreed with at the time- I will be quite fair; I do not in hindsight criticise; I was parallel with it in my thoughts- was to prevent the imposition of price control on industry. That was the major effort of liberalism in Australia. It is paradoxical that since both those salient points were defeated at that referendum the Government has acquired, through the Prices Justification Tribunal, effective price control over industry. 
-Give me one instance of any major industry in Australia which will buck the Prices Justification Tribunal. I give honourable senators the instance of the motor car industry. Which vehicle manufacturer in Australia will have the temerity to buck the Prices Justification Tribunal? Not one. Why? Because he knows he is completely in the hands of Government policy which can be most simply evidenced by the control of tariffs by the Federal Government. I predict that not one major industry will buck the recommendations of the Prices Justification Tribunal. What can be easily deduced from that is that the Federal Government, through the Prices Justification Tribunal, has effectively instituted price control in Australia. The one area which is not controlled is wages and salaries. I wonder about the red faces- I include my own in them- on the liberal side of politics who fought so successfully to defeat both proposals in the referendum but who were successful in relation to only one of them. 
-Of course we have to be sorry because we have price control without the essential parallel control which is needed, that is, of wages and salaries. Whilst it is politically impossible at the moment, there ought to be a new referendum in Australia asking the Australian people to give to the Australian Government the power to fix wages and salaries according to the measure of productivity in this country. I say very carefully that it must be matched to productivity. If that could be asked of the Australian people and if both parties would support it there would be a massive and overwhelming approval of it, such is the concern in the general community on this question. 
Despite the ramblings and interjections of Labor senators who are trying to interject- particularly  Senator McLaren  who appears to be opposing what he was supporting earlier this year- I would say that the initiative rests now with the Opposition. If the Opposition in the Austraiian Parliament said to the Australian Government: 'We urge you to go to the Australian people by way of referendum to obtain the power to fix wages and salaries as a measure directly indexed to the level of productivity, we will in return ensure that you go your full term of office without displacement by the Senate, the Labor Government would have every incentive to take that action. If  Senator McLaren,  who is trying to interject, will stop he might hear some argument on this question which might further his knowledge. In return for some sensible management of the community to tackle the problem of inflation the Opposition must give something. I think it is not too much for the Opposition to say to the Government: 'We will guarantee your tenure of office for your full term '. 

 -Before Senator Wheeldon runs away with that proposition I add if you will take effective action, which may be unpopular with your supporters in the . first few months, to match what is undoubtedly a crisis in the Australian community. ' It will not occur now because it is not politically possible. The Government, because of its industrial base, is unable to do so. It would be torn to pieces by its base if it said: 'We want to index wages to productivity'. The Opposition is too concerned with wrestling power from this Government to be concerned with the intricacies of inflation. A referendum will not occur at this stage because of the political situation, but I make the prediction that within 6 months many people who are sitting in this place, and others, will wish that they had taken some such action. Without it the rate of inflation in Australia will be 30 per cent in 6 months time and we will see what the leaders of Australia do in reaction to an obvious crisis situation of that nature. 
What do we find in this Bill? We find an increase in taxation. We find inhibition on the very factors that are needed to get us out of our economic problems. I agree that this Bill has no place here and should not be passed. Obviously there is no base on which it can be refused passage by the Senate because already this year there has been a defeat of the Government on measures that should never have been used for the purpose of paving the way for a double dissolution. It is not possible to consider rejection of the Bill at this time. It is with a great deal of regret that I must sit here with the Opposition and do as it does, which is to accept in silence the passage of a Bill that will greatly harm the future of Australia. 
In brief terms I point out that I am pleased to support the essentials of this Bill. I congratulate the Government on the support it is providing to the wool industry by way of loan funds at a time when it is needed in perhaps greater measure than ever before. I have looked at the proposed expanded powers of the Australian Wool Corporation and I have seen a number of factors which I would like to see attended to in Committee. However, I will support the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  in the major aspects of the Bill in general, in the way in which the members of the Corporation will be selected and in other aspects which seek to expand the marketing potential of the Corporation itself. Further than that I think it is a matter for the Committee to discuss the various amendments which will be proposed. 
I agree with the sentiments expressed by  Senator Wood  and with those echoed by  Senator Carrick.  I certainly agree with the estimates they make of the noxious aspects of this clause, the way it has harmed many hundreds of thousands of people in Australia and the damage it will do to the private school system in this country. However, I have replied in writing to the many hundreds of people who have written to me and have said, just as  Senator Carrick  has said, that the clause is part of the Government's Budget proposals. Its defeat should cause an election, if there is a serious assessment of the Budget by the Government of the day. I assume that the Opposition is not ready to cause an election at this time. I assume also that  Senator Wood  is not ready to cause an election. That being so I cannot be a party to promoting that contest again for the second time this year. Therefore I must join with the Liberal and Country Parties in reluctantly not opposing the clause. I cannot find the words to explain my reluctance to vote with  Senator Wood.  It would take far too long and hold the Senate up uselessly to spread my limited vocabulary as wide as I should like. 
I think the matter should be put in simple terms. I think it is not really a matter of expressing just the opinion that  Senator Wood  has. It is a matter of whether this House will say there ought to be an election on this issue. That is the simple issue and it ought to be put in plain terms. There would be people who would be disappointed in  Senator Carrick,  myself and others on his side for not following  Senator Wood.  They ought to know the reason. If I could vote in this House simply to excise that clause and leave the rest of the machinery run on, I would do so. Make no mistake about that. That is what I would do if that were the simple choice before me. But I recognise that it is not the simple choice. As I have said, the question is whether there will be an election on this issue. As I cannot countenance that at this time I express my very great concern at this matter. I end my short remarks by saying publicly what I have said to everyone who has written to me: The only way in which this matter can be put right is to defeat the Government so that the position can be restored by a non-Labor administration. 
Not all of the Opposition opposes clause 5.I do not. I think it is reasonable that the renovation of the constitution of the Australian Wool Corporation in this fashion is reasonable in view of the Government's support of the industry. While the industry will put in proportion of the funds which will be employed in market support, as  Senator Maunsell  has said, the Government certainly is taking some risk in what it is doing. I believe it is reasonable for the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  to ask for the alterations he is seeking to add expertise to the Corporation and to increase its ability to perform its functions which are expanded by this Bill. I have confidence in the Minister. I believe that within his province he would appoint men whom he believed were good for the industry. I believe he would do that and that he would put any other consideration in second place. I do not think there is any honourable senator in this House who could say otherwise. We know that legislation is made to cover a long period of time but one cannot look too far ahead. We cannot secure all the future options that all parties in this chamber would like. After free and frank discussions with the Minister- I am sure such discussions are available to any member of the Senate- I am willing to vote for this measure. I do not believe it is reasonable for the Senate to refuse him this clause. Before honourable senators vote lightly on this matter, following party lines, they ought to consider what they are doing in relation to the furture efficiency of the Corporation and the growers welfare. I say that after considerable thought about this point. I believe that rejection of clause 5 will lower growers prospects in the future. I say no more than that. 
I do not believe the amendment moved by  Senator Maunsell  is a wise one. It seems to me it opens up the arguments which were well canvassed in the previous Bill concerning the wool industry which was debated earlier this session. It seems to me to be very much a contradiction that on the one hand we should claim freedom of action for the Corporation in pursuit of its commercial, industrial and wool industry activities and yet, on the other hand, we stipulate that its funds shall be put into a trust fund which will have some disciplinary effect as to how that money can be used. In my assessment it does nothing that more securely ties the funds. There certainly has to be a report as to the usage and dispensation. I can only see this as an inhibiting factor on the freedom of the Corporation in maintaining its commercial operations. For that reason I do not believe that it is a good thing for the Senate to approve this amendment. 
I move: 
In proposed section 39a omit 'acquiring and '. 
This clause extends the function of the Corporation and includes the word 'acquiring'. In assessing the purpose of the phrase 'acquiring and supplying wool for the purposes of programs of aid by Australia to other countries', it would seem to me that the word 'acquiring' has been really chosen unthinkingly or unknowingly when it is used in relation to a discussion of the wool industry, because the word 'acquistion' has a particular meaning to those who have discussed wool management and wool buying in Australia. It would seem to me that the use of the word 'acquiring' in clause 12 does little, if anything, for the purposes of this phrase which is concerned with programs of aid by Australia. If the words acquiring and' are left out of the phrase the clause would read: 'supplying wool for the purposes of programs of aid by Australia to other countries'. Of course, other provisions in this amending Bill and in the Act give the Corporation power to buy in all forms, but of course not the power to acquire as is somewhat inherent in this clause. I believe that the Corporation would not use this power in any untoward fashion, but because of that fact and the fact that it frightens some people, I have moved the amendment. 
I move: 
In proposed section 39a omit 'and manufacturing'. 
This amendment is linked with a subsequent amendment to clause 13 in which I will move to delete the words 'process or'. My intention is not to give to the Corporation the power to become a manufacturer or processor of wool or woollen products in its own right. I do not see the purposes of the Corporation extending into that industrial field. If that is a necessary requirement in some future market situation, the Minister of the day can come back to this place and ask for that power to be given to the corporation. But at this time it seems to me to be quite outside the purposes of the Corporation and can be seen as a threat to the institutions and industrial organisations in Australia today which very efficiently and carefully have built up, over 100 years, very efficient wool processing plants. I do not think it is necessary to antagonise them by including in this legislation definitions which are not needed. 
I am sure that the honourable senator wants to widen this debate, but I will try not to do so. However, I thank him for his help. 
No, I did not say that. It is only a matter of time and place. I do not think that I have to expound on this amendment very much. It is not my philosophy that the Corporation should go into the industrial processing of wool or woollen products. However, it could very well be a requirement that the Corporation can arrange for the manufacture or processing of wool or woollen products. I think one can visualise that the Corporation could have stocks of particular types of wool left on its hands at particular time of the season, which could be quit only by processing. If that is the case, the Corportion should have the power to arrange for treatment or manufacture. But that is quite a different proposition from the Corporation proceeding to treat or manufacture in its own right. 
I have an amendment which is similar to the previous amendment, but it seeks to delete different words. It has the same basic reasoning, that is, not to give the Australian Wool Corporation the power to process wool but to allow it to have the power to arrange for the processing of wool. It would then not be able to become a processor with its own industrial plant but would be able to arrange for the processing of any stocks of wool that it held for whatever commercial judgment it made. I move: 
In proposed Section 40, paragraph (c) omit 'process or' 
I move: 
Leave out 'revoke or', insert 'with the concurrence of a State'. 
This is the first of my amendments and it is a test for the others. I hope that the Committee will agree to this amendment. The clause as amended would read: 
For the purposes of section 6, the Minister may approve major building projects undertaken or proposed to be undertaken during the period to which this Act applies in connexion with institutions of technical and further education in a State, and may, with the concurrence of a State, vary any such approval. 
As it reads now, the Minister may revoke or vary any such approval. That seems to me to be a totally unwarranted power to give to the Minister in addition to all his other quite complete controlling and supervisory powers in relation to approval and inquiry and all the other many-sided facets of control involved in giving his approval. It seems completely unwarranted alongside those powers for him to be given the power to revoke a decision already made. 
In the passage of the Commonwealth-States roads legislation we asked why the Minister wanted a revocation power in the legislation. When it was all boiled down and the amendment was moved and discussed, we could find no reason except that he wanted it as an additional control measure. The Minister may reply that he would like to have this power and would use it sparingly and would never in any way be vindictive. But already this year 2 Federal Ministers have indicated that they will, if necessary, be vindictive. One remembers the dissension that arose in New South Wales in regard to the further construction and the demolition to make way for construction of a freeway. Without entering any part of the argument as to whether the freeway ought to have been proceeded with, I point out that the facts of life are that 2 Federal Ministers said in the media they would take away New South Wales roads money which was needed for purposes other than the specific freeway construction if the New South Wales Government did not comply with their wishes. In my view that was a most vindictive and totally subversive view taken by the Federal Ministers in relation to the New South Wales roads program. The power given in this clause gives that sort of Minister, whom 1 have clearly outlined in the example which I have just given, the ability to say to a State: 'Not only may I not approve your future projects but I shall revoke my approval of this project you have half-completed'. It is a power that is completely unwarranted and, as I have said, it can be described only as a vindictive power. There can be no other reason for it because the Federal Minister has every other aspect of control in establishing the program in the first instance. 
It is a far cry from the view of Federation which would say that a handsome and proper sum of financial assistance should be given to the States to work out a technical education program to come to this point where the Minister not only approves but also may revoke. I come from a State which has a proud record in education. 
It has a proud record in much of technical education also.  Senator McLaren  would be aware that the Liberal Country League Government in South Australia in 1968 dramatically restored capital expenditure on education which had been reduced dramatically by his Party when it was in office from 1965-1968. They are the facts of life. No papering over of the dramatic reduction in capital expenditure on education by his Party when it was in office from 1965 to 1968 will hide that fact. We come from a State which revised education. I am pleased to say that a subsequent Labor Government followed that lead and continued to help education in South Australia. So we have nothing to fear in South Australia from our development of education. 
Having said that, I return to a point which I made during my speech on the second reading of this Bill. If the Senate allows this revocation power to proceed we must forget the fiction that we believe in the existence of States as separate governing entitites. We had better forget that fiction and get on with the business of building a supreme Commonwealth Government. That is what we will be doing if we allow this clause to remain in the Bill. I do not believe that we should be sidetracked by the issue- important though it may be to those who want this assistance- that the States might not receive this money until March. The responsibility for that does not rest on those who will safeguard some small amount of State initiative. If this Bill is delayed it will be because the Australian Labor Government refuses to recall the House of Representatives before Christmas. There is no factor which prevents the recalling the House of Representatives before Christmas. 
-Only a political factor is involved, as  Senator Missen  said. No other practical factor is involved. I repudiate any suggestion that the responsibility for delay in this measure or in relation to any other Bill this week rests with those who amend those Bills. The responsibility will sit squarely on the shoulders of the Australian Government. I put to honourable senators the very great importance of this issue. The decision that the Government makes will certainly set the course for future action or nonaction in relation to similar powers which are taken by the Australian Government in relation to expenditure of funds by the States. I remind the Senate, as I said in my speech on the second reading of this Bill, that with this sort of power being extended by Bill after Bill passed by this House, the States are rapidly becoming constitutional skeletons and ultimately will become unnecessary in the system of Australian Government. 
Of course,  Senator Geenwood  is exactly right. I hope that, whether I disagree or agree with any honourable senator, I will do so on the logic as I see it and as I interpret it. I agree entirely with  Senator Greenwood  that the Senate is being intimidated. As I said earlier, if this Bill should be amended and await the pleasure of the House of Representatives it will not be the fault of the Senate, it will be the fault of the Government's programming of the sitting days of the 2 Houses of Parliament. 

 Senator McLaren has no difficulty with this Bill. He is quite right to get up and attack my amendment and to defend his situation, as he did, because this Bill falls completely in line with what he wishes for the governments of Australia. He is a centralist. He believes in centralising power here. He believes in removing power from the States. It is written in the objectives of the Australian Labor Party to which he is bound hand and foot by the pledge he has signed. So  Senator McLaren  does not have to argue with anyone to defend his case. Like all of his colleagues, he is committed to a centralist course of finally abolishing State governments. Of course he would therefore approve this legislation as we have it before us. Not only would he like to obtain the power of revocation over State governments; he would also like to strangle them. That is where he stands, and he is quite right in saying once again to the Australian public that he wants to strangle the State governments and to have more legislation like this. The honourable senator has pledged himself to that course. He would be yet another victim of his Party if he denied it. 
That view has led to the power of revocation being written into this Bill. That is the view of the people intent on upgrading technical education in Australia who need this assistance. Many of the people whose names the honourable senator read out share his view that there should be one central government in Austalia. They would have no quarrel with that. In this issue those who speak on behalf of the States may very well be outnumbered in many quarters. I am the first to admit that. I admit the right of people to write releases as they wish about those who stand up for some remaining State powers, as indicated in this amendment. Let me say to the honourable senator and to the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  that the inclusion of this all pervading power in the Bill is one of the reasons why people in Queensland voted as they did on Saturday. Can the Labor Government not understand the reaction against this sort of attitude? I am not a supporter of the Premier of Queensland in the sense that I would not sooner see a Liberal Premier there. I am free to say that at any stage. The honourable senator cannot understand that by the inclusion of this type of power he is activating those who will destroy his Government. 
Certainly the inclusion of this power to revoke will give me added impetus to fight him out in the electorate. If I needed that, I am given it by this Bill. I will go out and I will be pleased to tell the electorate that this is what  Senator McLaren  believes in and that any re-election of him or any election of his colleagues in the Lower House will mean a continuation of the stranglehold which the Australian Labor Party now has on the States and their governments. I am pleased that this matter has been ventilated. I am sorry that it is obvious that this amendment will not be carried. Because of the haste and the intimidation, because the 2 Houses are not sitting in conjunction, I suppose we will have to wait until we go out on the hustings to refight this issue in the electorate, as we cannot do it in this House. 

 - Mr Temporary Chairman, I will not proceed with the other amendments because it is obviously not the Committee's wish to do so. I believe that I would have the support of a majority of this Committee for those amendments if it were not for the intimidation which the Committee feels it is being subjected to by reason of the fact that the House of Representatives is not sitting. I think this has all been fairly expressed, and I must say that I do not proceed under protest. I give fair notice that in relation to any future Bill which has a similar provision I will move an amendment similar to the one I have done on this occasion. 
Remainder of Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
There are two major aspects to this Bill. One of them is clearly stated in the provisions before us, which provide assistance for technical education. This has long been desired by those in Australia who are interested in that subject. The second aspect deals with a decline in the power of the States in Australia. This is clearly indicated in the provisions of this Bill which so tie the States hand and foot as to make them subservient and completely unnecessary except for the administrative aspects of this particular assistance to education. It is the latter- the unseen factor of the decline in the power of the States- which, of course, should be noticed as the debate on this Bill passes rather swifty through the second reading stage because it is typical of recent legislation that the Commonwealth, in providing special assistance to the States, shall become the dictator as to how that resource shall be expended in every way down to the most minor type of decision. This Bill incorporates what I believe is a totally objectionable provision. In specific areas it seeks to give the Minister for Education the power to revoke already approved decisions. That, to me, is the final insult to the States, which are already rapidly becoming constitutional skeletons within the so-called Australian federation. 
The one great factor which dominates the passage of this Bill mechanically through this House is that the House of Representatives is not sitting and those of us who believe in the system of federation are being held to ransom by those who so ardently want this assistance to be given to education and by the Government of the day, which has said: 'If you touch this Bill- if you amend it- there will be no action forthcoming from it until the House of Representatives meets in the middle of February. Therefore it will be March before there can be any effective resolution of the disagreement between the 2 Houses'. 
This is one of the worst features of the passage of legislation that I have ever witnessed. We in this House may as well pass all the Bills before us in the next 20 minutes and go home because we have been told that if we amend the Bills they will not be passed. 
There are tens of thousands of people in the community who value the passage of" this Bill and the financial assistance its passage will provide far more highly than they do the maintenance of federation in Australia. That choice was put to me quite clearly on the weekend and this morning. Quite a number of people have been to see me personally and have telephoned me and said: 'We believe that you are right in wanting to move amendments which will give some protection in a minor way to the States, but we will sacrifice that protection to the States to get our assistance money'. That is the attitude of the members of the Australian public who are concerned with this education procedure. The very sobering thought is that the public will sacrifice federation and the rights and powers of the States to get what it wants from the Federal Government. I predict that if this sort of legislation continues to pass through this House in numerous forms on various subjects but with a similarity of control the States will rapidly, as I have said, become constitutional skeletons. The Senate ought not to keep up the pretence that it believes in federation if the Senate allows the revocation power in this Bill to go through. If the Senate allows this Bill to go through in this fashion with these revocation clauses in it the Senate is indicating by attitude, whatever it may say in so many words, that it has given the States up as a lost cause. That will be the effect if the revocation clauses remain intact. 
The intention of the Bill is to assist in very many and various ways the establishment of technical education on a level footing with other forms of education in Australia which have received assistance prior to this recognition. The causes are noble and we would expect a very great upgrading in technical education to result in Australia. But the price, as I have said, is that it will be done by Australian Government control to the ultimate in detail. The States will become the administering authorities- in fact, the servants of the Australian Government. I therefore give notice that I propose to move some amendments to this Bill. One of those amendments is to the clause to which  Senator Guilfoyle  referred earlier relating to the request by the Federal Minister for Education to obtain information.  Senator Guilfoyle  has indicated that the Opposition will not support that clause or some amendment to it. Therefore there is little purpose in my proceeding with that amendment. But I will proceed to put and call for a seconder to my amendments which request the Senate to remove the revocation power of the Minister for Education. I warn the Senate that if it turns down these amendments and approves the inclusion of revocation clauses simply because the Senate is under pressure and has been told that the education system will not get this money because the Government will not recall the House of Representatives, the States are dead and they no longer exist in the thoughts of Australians nor in the thoughts of the Senate. 
I again say how disgusted I am to find that at the end of the session there are important amendments, supposedly well supported out in the community, which cannot be carried apparently by the Senate because they cannot be put to the House of Representatives which has gone home on holiday. 
It is a form of Government blackmail. The House of Representatives is on holiday and for some unknown reason cannot deal with the most important factors in this community. There is little more I need to say. I draw up the points again. The Bill's essential determinations to help technical education are a necessity. I regret the domination and dictatorial attitude of the Federal Government in insisting that control be exerted in the fashion set out in the Bill. I understand that those who make up the technical education profession want this Bill badly and the assistance that it will give to their profession. I also understand that they value it greater than they value the system of Australian federation. I will regret very much if the Senate allows the revocation clauses to proceed. I will still, as I have indicated, move my amendments at the required time. 
I support the remarks of  Senator Carrick  who is quite right, of course, to refer to the 95,000 people who possibly will be retrenched employees as 'unused capacity'. I wonder what the Labor Party would have done in Opposition if the Government of the day which it opposed had this sort of unemployment in prospect. I am sure that Labor's cries of alarm and disaster would have been much more vigorous than they are now from the present Opposition which, I believe, is at least giving the Government some understanding, if only it will listen, of the problem. As  Senator Carrick  rightly points out, the interest rates now charged on house mortgages in Australia prohibit so many people, who previously could have envisaged buying a home over a long period of time, entering into house contracts. So that very important part of the market which had been extending downwards when interest rates were reasonable and when people were encouraged to buy long term rather than to rent, has now been largely destroyed. The impact on the building industry in Australia has been dramatic. 
While I agree with  Senator Carrick  that interest rates must be lowered, in my opinion it is not possible to lower interest rates while we have inflation running in excess of 20 per cent and heading next year towards 30 per cent. It is simply not realistic to expect interest rates to be reduced in the face of inflation which is of a greater nature in prospect in the future than we have had during 1974. Only a subsidy directly from the Government will reduce interest rates in the face of trends which will tend to force interest rates even higher. The basis of all of these problems of course is inflation. That is the basic cause. Inflation is growing worse, not better. Palliatives are being applied today which will not in essence be effective. 
A very ominous news report which I heard over the weekend in South Australia stated that the Highways Department in South Australia had announced that its work accomplishment next year will be down 25 per cent. This reduction will not be caused by the expenditure of less money, it will be simply because inflation has destroyed one-quarter of South Australia 's road program next year. The real effects of inflation are only now becoming apparent. Unemployment will grow more rapidly in the new year. Programs such as construction carried out by the Highways Department in South Australia will be reduced. House building will be reduced because, as  Senator Carrick  rightly pointed out, the market is not available and couples cannot afford the huge sum which now has to be part of their earnings. 
I want to say in very brief terms that the whole of this economy will fall to pieces unless the Government can come to grips with the rate of inflation. We can pass Bill after Bill, with palliative after palliative, and they will mean nothing if we have an inflation rate of 30 per cent by June next year, as business people in Australia tell us we are going to have. 

 -Senator Sir Magnus Cormack knows very well that there is no reason why it will stay at any particular inflated figure. Economists will tell any government that there is no stabilising factor in high inflation rates. They will either drop dramatically under some disastrous economic effect, or they will grow even higher. They will not be stable. It is time the Government looked at all these various things it is doing, looked at all its day-to-day announcements and started to do something about the basic cause of it all. What is the building industry? What is the basic cost factor in the building industry? What are buildings made of? What is the basic cost of raw material? It is a very small factor when you look back to the start of the manufacture of the components of a house. One sees first of all, in the most clearly evident form, in the housing industry the effects of the wage and salary explosion. Here it is affecting the greatest sector in this community, and, may I say, the most worthy sector. 
Until the Government comes to grips and does something positive about the explosion in wage and salary demands all that we do here will be ineffective. So far the Government has offered nothing to attack the basic cause of our problems that will do anything for us in 1975. 1 join  Senator Carrick  in his remarks. I will vote for the Bill as a palliative measure but I say that the Government is doing nothing to meet the major challenge in front of it. It is making small isolated moves but they will not reduce the rate of inflation. The Government will not reduce the rate of inflation until it deals with the basic cause of it. 
I am happy to support the States Grants (Water Resources Assessment) Bill 1974 and the River Murray Waters Bill 1974. The River Murray Waters Agreement is something which is very important in South Australia. Our State is utterly reliant on the waters of the River Murray to which no water is contributed by the State from any subsidiary streams. We are very conscious of the operation of the River Murray Commission and the life line that the river is to South Australia. I hope that the Commission can proceed speedily with construction of the Dartmouth Dam. On its completion South Australia will be insured against the effects of drought against which it is not insured at the moment. I commend the work of the Commission and of the River Murray Waters Bill which is a small machinery measure in support of the Commission. 
Despite what has been said about research and study into the control of water pollution in Australia I would not like to see the control of the River Murray system taken outside the River Murray Commission. I certainly want to see the powers of the Commission upgraded so that it can pay a great deal more effective attention to pollution and the salinity of the waters of the Murray. In my opinion it would be a very retrograde step to take the control of the system out of the hands of the 3 States which are concerned with it, and the Commonwealth, which is an equal partner in the River Murray Commission, and to make the river and the watershed subject to the control of the other States which have no interest in it. I want to say this: The River Murray Commission has proven to be one of the greatest examples of interstate cooperation that Australia has seen. 
-Now that  Senator Georges  raises the matter, the system broke down temporarily in South Australia because of the actions of his parliamentary colleagues at the State level. They mercilessly and shamelessly used the need for water supplies in South Australia for their own political benefit. They put the Australian Labor Party first every time, before the good of their own State, so much so that they went to an election in 1970 promising that 2 dams would be built on the River Murray in the near future. That was their election policy. But they knew full well that their promise was utterly false and that the dams could not be provided in any way as they had promised. I repeat that they went to the public promising that 2 dams would be built. The then new South Australian Government in 1970-71 denied any dams to South Australia and stated, following that election promise, that it would re-negotiate the scheme. It left South Australia in the lurch for an additional 2 seasons. If there is any problem concerning a shortage of water in South Australia before the Dartmouth Dam is completed it will be the Dunstan Labor Government that is absolutely and only responsible for that shortage in our State. 
There are many other facets to the matter. I am sure that  Senator McLaren  is rearing to say something in defence of his lame duck State 
Government in South Australia. But nothing he can say can alter the facts which are well printed and well documented. 
Yes, I am sure - 
Yes, but the facts cannot be denied,  Senator Poyser.  There is no doubt that the most conservative and the most reactionary political Party in Australia is the Australian Labor Party. It has never shown any propensity to be able to change its mind. It has stuck to written objectives which are unchangeable. This is illustrated in its tactical views of the economies it governs, whether they be on the State or Federal scene. It is unable to match the moving scene in front of it. But in South Australia the State Labor Government was advised before the 1968 election that it would have to change its policy on the Chowilla Dam and promote the Dartmouth Dam because of new information that was to be introduced to it very shortly. However, that Government went to an election promising the construction of the Chowilla Dam, as did the then Opposition. Shortly after the election the information that the outgoing Labor Government knew was available was presented to the new government. That information was presented to the new government from com'puters which produced 350 studies of the River Murray system whereas only 1 3 had been available on a manual basis previously. Of course, the system was entirely reversed in relation to the yield from the river system following a comparison between Dartmouth and Chowilla. 
It was a very agonising time. I can tell  Senator McLaren  that at that time his State leader said that whatever supply point it obtained for South Australia from the Commonwealth Government, it would want 1,250,000 acre feet of water. I can also tell  Senator McLaren  that the LiberalCountry League Government of the day would not accept 1 ,250,000 acre feet and said that that was not good enough to guarantee South Australia's future. We stuck to the proposal that we would not agree to the construction of Dartmouth Dam nor would we shift from our position in regard to the Chowilla Dam until we received a very substantial increase of water supply from 1,250,000 acre feet to 1,500,000 acre feet, despite the fact that the Dunstan Administration ran out from under. It was willing to settle for a figure it had obtained already. But the new . State Government in South Australia stuck out and increased South Australia's useful water supply by 37 per cent simply by hard negotiations.  Senator McLaren  knows that to be true, and nothing that he can say consequent on what I have said tonight will alter those facts. Nothing will alter the fact that the final arrangement which the Dunstan Government had to agree to was worked out and signed by the representatives of the previous administration, which  Mr Dunstan  opposed. I will listen to the intricate argument that I am sure  Senator McLaren  will now put to us. I am sure that he will try to substantiate the cause of a government, of an administration that won government on a promise which it has never really tried to fulfil in any way, and knows it cannot fulfil. 
I understand the motives behind the amendment with which the Committee is now dealing. They are admirable. But I have consulted with the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  about this matter and I am informed on his initiative and assured that the complete power to accomplish what the amendment proposes will rest in the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Bill and therefore this amendment would result in the duplication of the power to be held in another Act. As I am informed, the acceptance of this amendment would result in the legislation being cluttered with a dual power. That being the case, I do not see any necessity to proceed with it. For that reason, although I would approve the intention which I am told will exist in another Act, I propose to support the Government on the issue. 
I propose to support the Opposition's amendment on the basis that it is not limiting but expansive on the type of mining that may be carried out and that it places the onus completely on the government of the day as to whether mining will be carried out by a government authority. It is limiting, I suppose, on the power and discretion of the Minister, but only insofar as that he must obtain the Cabinet decision to support his view. I can see nothing unreasonable about the Opposition 's amendment. It would certainly allow an interpretation and operation of this clause according to the policy of the Government of the day. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (2), at the end of paragraph (c), add 'in a territory'. 
I support the Opposition's amendments. The provision seems to be quite in contradiction with the Constitution. I think the amendment is selfexplanatory. 
This Bill is part of subsidiary legislation which has followed the passage of the very hotly contested major legislation which, as other honourable senators have said, was passed by the Joint Sitting. I am as opposed now to the changes which the Government is making as I was when I first became publicly involved in this issue, but events have moved rapidly since the Joint Sitting and we are confronted with a proposal to fund the new scheme by way of contribution. It is obvious that the public is showing perhaps even greater resistance to this scheme than at any previous time during its discussion, and that is a prevailing feeling not only among the medical profession but also among those who staff hospitals and among the general public who believe that medical service and hospitalisation as they now know them would be subject to inefficiency under the Government's scheme which would downgrade not only the quality of medical service they receive but also raise the cost of it and make it less available to them than is desirable. They will in fact be subject to disciplines to which they are not now subject in the choice of their medical officer. 
These things we know and we have argued. That has been the position probably since this Government first came to office and began to promote its new proposals. The issue as to whether or not the Government should proceed over all was settled at the joint sitting which took place earlier this session. We find now that the Opposition intends to defeat this subsidiary legislation. If the Opposition could defeat the implementation of this scheme it would have a very good point, although, as I said at the joint sitting, it would not be justified constitutionally in doing so. 
In defeating this Bill, I believe that the Opposition will do the opposite to what it intends to do, and that is to put any obstacle in the way of the Government. It is pretty clear that the Government is intent on proceeding with this scheme and it will not accept any block that is put in its way. What the Government is asking the Senate to pass is a taxation measure which is to provide for individual contributions to the medical health funds. If this Bill is defeated I understand that the Government will proceed to finance this scheme from general revenue. If the Government finances this scheme from general revenue we will have a completely noncontributory medical and health services situation in Australia. The Opposition, by defeating this Bill, will be instituting a free medical and hospital service in this country. That is what the Opposition will do if it defeats this legislation. That is the effect- if we cut through the emotion in which I earlier joined and in which I would like to join now- of what the Opposition is doing. It is taking away the contributory side of the public's responsibility to its medical and health services, which is the opposite of what the Opposition and I want. 
I should think the Government will have to seek an appropriation of money. I imagine it will be contained in a general revenue Bill. I am doubtful whether it would have to be separate. I am not all-wise yet in the way of the Federal Government but I assume that, with the major legislation passed, it will be contained in general revenue legislation. I assume that it will be placed in such a way that it will mean the defeat of the Government or otherwise. It could well be that by the middle of next year the Opposition would like to accomplish that defeat. It has not said, of course, with any certainty, at this stage that it can. 
In contemplating this legislation one must realise that unless the Government is defeated next year we are witnessing the introduction of a free medical and hospitalisation service in Australia. I hope the Opposition understands that it is punting everything on the defeat of the Government before this scheme is operating. Once this scheme is operating 'free' to the Australian community it will not be possible to make it contributory. I use the word 'free' in inverted commas, of course, knowing full well that the public will pay and pay in large measure through their general taxation revenue. Nevertheless, in all normal terms as we understand them it will be a free service and no alteration the Opposition may make when in government will be able to re-institute charges for the scheme which will have been previously provided free of charge. That is one factorthe largest factor- involved in the legislation that we are faced with today. 
As I have said, I share the Opposition's view that this is indeed a very sad day because we are witnessing a change in this manner. I joined with other honourable senators in voting against this legislation at the joint sitting. Before coming to this place, I vigorously campaigned against the Government's proposals. But that is not the issue we are discussing today. That argument has gone by. It is as a result of the fact that the Opposition in this place created a double dissolution in May of this year that the Government now has the power that the Opposition so badly did not want it to have. The power was given to the Government by the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party in the Federal Parliament. That is worth remembering and worth repeating when we look at the responsibilities and the factors which now enable the Government to introduce the scheme. It has the power to introduce the scheme because the Opposition gave it the chance to do so and the chance to hold the Joint Sitting, which it would not have had if the double dissolution had not occurred. All of those things are history.' 1 come to the very real point that was made, I thought well, in yesterday's 'Financial Review'. An article headed ' Medibank 's Painful Birth' deals with a number of possibilities which will arise from now until the projected take-off date of this scheme, namely, 1 July next year. I shall quote at random from the article. The article states: 
Despite declarations  or  opposition from doctors, health funds and private hospitals, the Government's national health scheme is set to operate from 1 July next year. 
Further on the article states: 
On the medical side of the scheme, which accounts for 60 per cent of all private insurance, the Government has considerable immunity from the actions of the scheme's three major opponents. 
And the Government, having found itself in a position of a refusal of supply, could stall an election for a good month after July 1. 
It is on the hospital side of the scheme that its opponents could successfully prevent its implementation on a State basis. 
The article then goes on to say: 
The States, with control over public hospitals, could simply refuse to co-operate or to accept the money for the hospitals scheme. On present indications Government officials expect the two Labor States, and, ironically, Queensland, to accept their offer. 
So let us have a practical look at this situation. Of the 3 States which are expected to accept the Government's offer, two will do so automatically and the other has largely roundly rejected the Labor Party at a recent election. But, because of the type of hospitalisation which that State already provides, it is almost certain to accept this scheme. So, on a State by State basis, numerically half of the States of Australia are predicted to accept the scheme in regard to hospitalisation. The article continues: 
Doctors would still have to co-operate with the bureaucracy of the scheme, most importantly billing procedures. 
But in the absence of the health funds paying refunds to patients, it would seem most doctors would have little alternative but to co-operate. 
A similar predicament faces the health funds which would become obsolete in their present form from the date of the scheme's introduction, unless they took up the Government's offer to act as agencies. 
The article then mentions the political implications. It states: 
It would be extremely difficult both politically and mechanically for a Liberal-Country Party Government to tear the commission down. 
That is what  Senator Baume  said a LiberalCountry Party Government would do. The article goes on to say: 
Even if the commission were disbanded, its employees would be permanent public servants entitled to jobs elsewhere in the Government- a point relevant in any attempt to retard the flow of employees to the commission. 
The compromise from the Opposition's viewpoint, which  Mr Chipp  supports but his Party doesn't, would be for the funds and the commission to co-exist, in a similar relationship to that of TAA and Ansett in the domestic airlines sector. 
The Government has set a December 3 1 deadline for the funds to reply to the agency offer. 
The article goes on to say: 
Ironically, the Senate's move expected this week to block the Government's legislation for the 1.35 per cent levy on taxpayers to fund the scheme, could strengthen  Mr Hayden  's propaganda position. 
He is confident in this event that the scheme could be financed from Consolidated Revenue. 
It would simply mean the tax cuts foreshadowed by the Government in next year's Budget would not be as great. 
In propaganda terms, however,  Mr Hayden  would be able to claim with some accuracy that the scheme is in fact free. 
It is in that regard that the Opposition has not fully considered its attitude to this legislation. If the Oppposition is to be effective in its opposition to the legislation it has to contemplate action that  Senator Baume  has predicted will be taken. It will have to dismantle at some time in the future what the Government has set up. We have already, in reading the article, had a look at the difficulties involved in dismantling the bureaucracy of the scheme- the fact that there would be very many employees who were permanent members of the Public Service. But the fact of the matter is that the most difficult aspect to dismantle would be that related to the fact that the scheme is free. It would be much easier for the Opposition to dismantle a contributory scheme, even though it was financed by means of a percentage levy on income. Such a scheme would be much easier to alter, to change, to dismantle or to replace than something which is free. My prediction is that the Government will see this as one of its major ambitions in office- make no mistake about it. I heard a rather enthusiastic 'Hear, hear' from my left. This is what we would expect. The Government has not been reticent about it. I believe the Government will achieve this at all electoral costs. 
There is no electoral penalty which will prevent the Government from proceeding, and no gallup polls or threats from any sector of the community will prevent the Australian Labor Party while in office from proceeding with its medical health plans. Therefore it will do everything it can to start this scheme on 1 July, or as close to that date as possible. I do not believe for one minute that the defeat of these Bills will hold up the scheme. As I said, defeat of this legislation would take the proposal further from a contributory scheme, which we on our side of politics maintain that there must be. We of course maintain that there must be a contributory scheme so that it will be obvious to the public who make use of it that there is nothing free in this world, and that an overuse of the scheme, an inefficient demand on the scheme, and an inefficient response to it where there is no relationship to some factor of costs is something which is to be deplored. 

 -While Senator Baume might be right in saying there would be a good deal of obstruction to this scheme he is ignoring the disciplinary powers that the Government has. He is ignoring the fact that the cost of medical and hospital care in Australia is sky-rocketing. There is an enormous increase. One of the great factors working against the. medical profession's view on this has been the fact that doctors have doggedly and determinedly put up their salaries and fees during the entire discussions on this. I am not commenting at this stage on whether they deserve them or not. What I am saying is that they have not helped the argument from their point of view; they only illustrate the point. Putting aside whether they are right or wrong or whether they helped their side of the question, they have highlighted the great extremes that there are in cost increases in Australia, particularly in medical and hospital care, and whatever scheme we think of in the future will have no relationship to current costs.  Senator Guilfoyle  mentioned something about a comparison with current costs. Current costs are not really relevant because they are exploding, irrespective of what scheme one is talking about. There has to be some new basis of approach to assistance for and production of hospital and medical support in Australia. 
All I can say is that I wish the Opposition would think this through. It might very well be better from the Opposition's point of view to pass this legislation and at least keep the scheme contributory than to refuse to pass the legislation and thereby make the scheme free. That to me is the essence of what we are voting on. We are not voting on whether we approve of the scheme. I am going to vote for these Bills because I want to keep the scheme contributory, but that does not say that I support the Government's plans in the slightest. I maintain my opposition in representation about these matters, as I have always done, to what the Government is seeking to do in this matter, but I must regard the Government as having the power since the Joint Sitting. Now it is going about the detail of implementing it. 
I say in closing that I think the Opposition has simply not thought this through. What it is seeking to do is to make. medical and hospital care in Australia free similar to the scheme in Britain in a sense which its supporters would regard as the most objectionable of all. I think the Opposition is hastening a scheme which it does not want, certainly one that I do not want and, by interjection I understand, one that Government supporters do not want. In any case I think the Opposition is going to force the pace. I see the defeat of this legislation as automatic and I see the emergence of a free scheme under the pressure which the Opposition has created. 
I have a good deal of sympathy with  Senator Carrick  in respect of this amendment because of the sensitivity of State governments in relation to their right to administer their own laws. However, I do not think the duck season is a good example. It might very well be a reason for not passing the amendment. From my experience, there have been all sorts of difficulties involved in coordinating the opening and closing of duck seasons. 
-No, they are not good federalists, they are centralists. But, of course, I do have sympathy with the inherent right of the States in this matter. Again, I have discussed this with the Minister and I understand his desire not to have the amendment at all. I also understand his desire to have the words 'or Territory' deleted from this amendment. I think that is fair enough. The matter in relation to a Territory is not the same as it is in relation to a State. The Commonwealth has a greater responsibility in respect of Territories than it does in respect of States. In a Territory there is not the same self-government as exists in a State. I should like to support the amendment with the exclusion of the words 'or Territory'. I do not know at what stage I should move for the deletion of these words,  Mr Chairman,  as I have not before been involved in such procedure in this chamber. However, at the appropriate stage, I shall move to delete the words 'or Territory' and then vote for the amendment. 
I also support the Opposition in that I would preserve the rights of the States. I believe that the Commonwealth should not try to impinge on intrastate trade. But it seems to me- and I think this was put to me when talking to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  this morning- that there could be some sort of vacuum in the territories if the paragraph were simply deleted. At least paragraph (f) of sub-clause (4) states: trade and commerce with other countries and among the States . . . 
This is a quote from the Constitution, I understand. It was suggested that we should add: 'in a territory'. I think  Senator Carrick  went halfway towards adopting the suggestion. If this were done, paragraph (c) of sub-clause (2) would read: 'regulating trade and commerce in connection with wildlife in a territory'. That would give the Australian Government the right, of course, to operate where I think it legitimately must. I am no lawyer, but there might be some argument about the application of constitutional power. At least the addition of these words would clear up the position and make the clause acceptable. I would move accordingly if my suggestion is acceptable. 
I understand  Senator Carrick  's concern about the width of this paragraph but I also believe that there needs to be pretty wide expression in this area. Whilst he used the term 'high seas' we can also consider small coves, limited reefs and secluded areas which must be protected from overuse by rapidly expanding recreational forcesboats, for instance. I think it is impossible to limit this to what we probably would all like to see because there are so many things not specified and unknown at the moment but which will have to be met by this paragraph. I do not object to the sentiments expressed by  Senator Carrick  but I think that the Minister will need this power in his administration. 
This is the second time in 2 days that we have had to consider under duress legislation of a most important nature. Apparently if those who lobby have their way, the Senate is to be prevented from continuing the presentation of its views concerning desirable amendments because of the timetable which presents us with an accomplished fact that the Bill will not be operative until about March if we do not agree to the amendments made to the Bill in the House of Representatives. This is an atrocious state of affairs. For 2 days straight we have had before us matters of great ideological importance which this House cannot fully and properly debate. I will not accept these amendments nor do I believe that anyone in the Opposition ought to accept them either. It is rather interesting that yesterday the teachers organisation said, in effect, that we might be right about States' powers but the money involved was so important to them that they wanted us to allow the subjugation of the States to be put into legislation concerning grants and assistance for technical education in Australia. 
Now, because the wool industry and the wool producers want this legislation they are saying, in effect, to member of Parliament, that we should allow matters of a highly ideological nature and a socialistic approach to private free enterprise to be included in the Bill, because they want, their organisation established before next March. If Australia is to be governed according to that standard, it does not matter who is in government, does it? This side is acquiescing. This is the weakest performance I have seen by any Opposition in my time in regard to matters of great ideological note. The Opposition is letting into Bills things that it does not want simply because of the time factor and the shortsighted attitude of producer organisations in relation to this matter. 
I am not being harsh. I have heard it said all too often, and as one of the farming and agricultural community I know it is all too true, that we are so anti-socialist until we want our own way. Let it not come back against this side of the Parliament in future years if something emanates from this Bill which the primary producing community does not want. Let primary industry not complain if it suddenly finds itself being taken over in an area which is does not want taken over by a government which believes all things should be done centrally and by government itself. Let not primary industry protest because its representatives at this time are saying: 'Accept this Bill for the sake of 2 months '. It is very wrong in every way. 
I say in all kindliness to my Country Party colleagues here that obviously they went too far in this House as to what was attainable by way of amendment. When one is viewing a piece of Government legislation which involves heavy financial support from the Government- the Government has received the congratulations of the House for that part of its actions in regard to the wool industry, which is a major part of its actions- and when a huge sum of money may be available on commercial terms from the Government, or by Government auspices, that was not available otherwise, it is not reasonable to expect the Government not to have some very large measure of say in the constitution of the Australian Wool Corporation. We went through that matter before. I say in all kindliness to my colleagues of the Country Party that in tampering with the base of the Bill in that regard they wanted more than they could possibly get. Therefore they have jeopardised the proper amendments they tried to get of a detailed but most important nature to them. They have lost their amendments because of their too active attitude to the Bill. I appreciated their support when the amendments went through- they did not sponsor the amendments but they supported them- but now they have in this Bill power given to the Corporation to manufacture and to process in its own name and with its own plant. Who on this side of the House wants that? Yet who on this side of the House will oppose it tonight? 
-Without committing the Minister I say that I believe the Minister would have accepted these amendments. 
I say that as a result of consultation with the Minister. He made no promises to me; I just got the feeling that the Government would have accepted everything except what was done in relation to clause 5. 
It might have been a funny feeling. I do not want to commit the Minister in that way. I said it is a feeling I had about it. Therefore we have a Bill which gives greatly extended powers- far more than the Corporation needs- in regard to operating in its own right, as  Senator Maunsell  said, in one of the greatest industries in this country. The marketing of wool is a most complex matter and is not to be attacked on the processing side simply because we would like to employ processors and generate processing plants in Australia. It is a most complex matter for those outside Australia who buy our wool and who want to process it themselves. We cannot have adventurers who take on the marketing and processing and manufacture of wool simply because they want to build up an industry, perhaps regardless of the overseas market of the wool itself. 
I intend to persist in my vote even though it is one vote among sixty. I will oppose the clauses which I opposed and amended here before. But I would say this: The Minister has put his proposition in a blanket form and if we are to express our opinion fully and properly- I do not disagree with his disagreement to the amendments to clause 5-1 must say that as one vote, and the only one I suppose, that will disagree with him I will be put in a somewhat foolish position of having to oppose his view on clause 5, which I agree with, because of my own amendments. It is a pretty moot point because I will be only one vote. But I want to say in words that I do not oppose in the way I vote the Minister's intention in relation to clause 5 of this Bill. But I regret very much the circumstances which have put us in this chamber in the position, apparently under the drift of the answer given by e.ator Maunsell, where we cannot express th*i opinion which I believe we would express if the House of Representatives were sitting. Under that protest, I will disagree with the Minister's proposal, exempting clause 5 from my remarks. 
It would seem to me that the amendment of the Opposition seeking to place a time limit on this legislation has some merit, in that it hopes thereby to to induce the Government to come forward with the better machinery which has been discussed in the second reading debate. But I cannot imagine that 30 June next year would be a sensible time. This allows only 6 months for the capacity of the Government to be enlarged to enter into these guarantees. Secondly there is every possibility that there will be some disturbance in Australian politics in mid next year which may very well leave a gap in any legislative ability. I am not forecasting anything; I am only saying what others have said to the newspapers. 
-No. I do not think there would be one honourable senator who would not admit that possibility. So it would seem to me that there could be a gap in the legislative capacity of the Australian Parliament at about this time when the period for operation of this legislation would cut off, according to the Opposition's amendment. I do not think it is reasonable administratively to expect the Government or industry to be faced with that hiatus in the implementation of these guarantees. I would support an amendment limiting the time to 31 December of next year if the Opposition wanted to do that. Otherwise, I will vote against this amendment. I will not try to amend the Opposition 's amendment. If the Opposition cares to do that, that is its business. I tell  Senator Cotton  that I would support an amendment for the extension of time of the legislation to be until the end of next year. But I believe that the short term extension is administratively unreasonable. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator Cotton's  amendment) be added. 
by leave- I am sure that  Senator Murphy  in closing the debate was in essence replying immediately to the questions which were put. I envisaged that yesterday I would attend this House and vote to give the Opposition the full opportunity to debate the issues which had been very well publicised over the weekend. I was very greatly surprised yesterday when the House was not called upon to enter into that debate. The only proper way for the Opposition to attack the question and to attack the Government was to do so directly, by putting its case to the Government and asking for a direct reply to its charges. This has not been done. Yesterday as an observer of tactics I was staggered to find the Opposition retreating from its obligation following the publicity of the weekend. Not knowing the rights or wrongs of the matter I find it even more strange tonight, at a time when there is no possibility of answering the charges which are made in such volume, that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Greenwood)  raised them by innuendo. I do not offer an opinion on the charges; I have not been given the basis of them by the Opposition and I cannot. Therefore my position as one who would have helped- I would have had a vital vote in this House- is that I am left just as ignorant of the charges as I was last weekend. I say this of the Opposition: It really dropped the ball in a very big way in the light of its responsibility to its claim. The Opposition's standards have not been raised by  Senator Greenwood  's remarks tonight. 
In speaking to the valedictory message on the adjournment let me say that, wherever I can, I leave this sort of message to my deputy. However, in this House I do not have a deputy and I wanted to rise and say how much I appreciated making contacts in my first session in this House. I thank both sides for the assistance they have given me in getting the legislation through. I look forward to the work next session. I have liked this one so much that I intend to come back. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)  I accept the remarks that have been made by the Leaders of the Parties and by honourable senators. I accept their thanks to the staff of the Senate. I know that the feelings embrace everyone who works within the Senate to make it the efficient chamber that it is. On behalf of the  President  I thank the Senate. I know that the man in whose position I act at the present time would have me wish you all a most pleasant Christmas and a very healthy and bright opening to 1975. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Senate adjourned at  12.18  a.m. to a day and hour to be fixed by  Mr President. 
I address a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the need to re-establish the business community in Darwin and to encourage those people who are needed to work on Darwin's reconstruction, will the Leader of the Government in the Senate follow up the subject of the letter which I wrote to the Prime Minister on 2 1 January and ascertain for me Government policy on my submissions recommending that company tax and income tax be not levied in the Darwin area until the beginning of the financial year 1977-78 and that sales tax on replacement items be not levied until the beginning of the financial year 1 976-77? 
I support the Opposition's move in raising this matter of urgency and I support the general contention which the Opposition makes, namely, that we are in a very difficult situation in Australia and that the present Government bears a heavy responsibility for the factors which have brought this situation about and which have been greatly highlighted by the unemployment figures. The situation is dramatised by the very rapid increase in unemployment in Australia, as shown by official figures which one finds when one scans the records or reads the daily newspapers. In flipping through my files on this subject this morning I read that on 6 September last year the actual number of people out of work was 108 000. Now in round figures there are 300 000 people out of work. This has all happened in a few months. The unemployment figure is reaching a rate unprecendented for many decades in Australia. So the Opposition is certainly correct in pinpointing some of the factors which have caused this acceleration in the rate of unemployment in Australia. As I have said, I support the Opposition's move today. 
I have personally found, as I am sure all honourable senators have found, a very great concern in the community about how wc are to extricate Australia from the problems that it now faces. One of the most concerning things about this matter is that most business leaders believe that a real recovery will take much longer than the recovery from any other recession since the last World War has taken, because of the fact that investment in future productivity is not being made in Australia. This means that in future there will not be jobs in industry and commerce when employment will be required and when we would otherwise expect a return to generally prosperous times. 
I also wish to congratulate the Opposition for producing its national economic program which was announced this week. Whilst I see some obvious factors in it which have not yet been faced, I believe that it is an excellent collation of facts which have led to the present situation in Australia. The program contains pointers to the future which will need to be defined and refined when the time comes. I congratulate the Liberal and Country parties on presenting this program because it is the most coherent plan for the economic future of Australia that exists. As the document itself points out very clearly, the program compares more than favourably with the distracted and highly divisive moves which the Government has taken in the last financial year in its economic planning. It is a coherent document and it looks quite a long way into the future. However, I believe that whilst the matter of urgency which we are discussing concerns itself mainly with unemployment in Australia, inflation is the greatest problem of all. Unemployment is a product of the rapid and excessive rate of inflation which we now suffer. 
When we hear so much news and so many reports of Government activity in relation to the motor car industry we find that the Government is obsessed with the symptoms of the situation rather than with the causes. I think that we all would applaud any genuine moves taken to restore employment to those who do not have it, but it is rather disquieting to find that the most senior Government Ministers disregard the causes of the present situation and treat the symptoms. Therefore we can expect a repetition of the matters which concern us so deeply now. I should like to quote from this document, for which I have given the Opposition parties due credit, in order to emphasise some of the things in which I, too, believe. I believe that the emphasis in this document on the danger of inflation to this community and how it destroys job opportunities is very well taken. I shall quote an excerpt which is headed 'The Domestic Economy'. It reads: 
Some argue that inflation (and thus its consequences) is a social and political rather than an economic problem. This argument is valid to the extent that inflation is caused by governments which lack the necessary leadership and resolve to carry through responsible economic policies. Increases in both government and private expenditure- the sources of material welfare- depend upon the capacity of the community to save, to work, and to produce. We believe that governments must show leadership in restraint. 
The document also emphasises the value of the private sector in the economy and how it is the private sector- individuals and companies, as the document states- that can best develop our natural resources and employ our work force. 
Without quoting further from this document for the benefit of the parties which have compiled it, I repeat that I believe it is a valuable document for those parties and a valuable document for discussion within this Parliament. However, I find some paradoxes within it. I notice emphasis is placed on the trade practices legislation which will be used to ensure that competitive devices are not frustrated. That is something of a paradox because if the Opposition parties had had their way in this chamber the trade practices legislation would have been an empty shell and it would not now have presented the opportunity, as the Opposition parties concede in their document that it does, to ensure that competition in the business community is real and effective. 
It is not a misinterpretation of the situation. Having taken a particular stand on the issues which were discussed at the committee stage of the consideration of the trade practices legislation, I think that a study of Hansard will prove to  Senator Wright  the exactness of what I have said. I say, in giving due credit to him, that the honourable senator who rejoined the Liberal Party yesterday took a very leading part in ensuring that the trade practices legislation would be as effective as it is now. If  Senator Wright's  party, when  Senator Townley  was not a member of it, had had its way the trade practices legislation, as I have said, would have been an empty shell and it would have done the Opposition little good to have included it now as a tool in its policy making machinery. 
There are other contradictions in the Opposition's program. It is difficult to adhere to a policy of generally reducing Federal Government expenditure when at the same time the State governments are to receive large additional funds under the Opposition's recommended policy. I understand the pressures on State governments and their need to sustain the services which they provide to the community at a very basic level. But it must be realised also that State governments need to look at their own organisations. I believe that all State governments, Liberal, Labor or Country Party, would do well to look at their work forces and the way they fulfil their services to the community in order to ensure that they are operating at the most efficient level. 
I do not believe that there is one government in Australia that could not reduce its government services by having a great deal more of its work done by private contract. When I look at my own State and others, I know from experience that there are great areas of government work carried out less efficiently than it could be carried out. All State governments need to look carefully at efficiency. Whilst some of them may be Liberal governments that does not mean that they should always adopt a liberal ideology in regard to the workings of their departments. There is a great need to return to private contract work in the performance of what is after all an aggregate of a very large spending area in Government in Australia, the State governments. 
-My word I would. I would assume that under a Federal Labor Government there would be a movement in the wrong direction. The Budget figures show this quite clearly. The aggregation of expenditure to the Federal Government is one of the base causes of inflation. I again refer to the Liberal Party's document and give it full praise and credit for very clearly and simply drawing this factor to the attention of those who read it. 
I want to emphasise this point about State governments,  Mr President,  because in the general economic situation in Australia they often slip unnoticed into the practice of doing so much by means of their departments instead of having it done in the contract field. I remember some few years ago that an attempt was made in South Australia to do this, particularly in relation to road works. When the new Labor government came in, the Dunstan regime, that policy was deliberately reversed and more work was put back to the Government and done directly by the Government's work force. I want to make that point because I do not believe that States have exhausted all the efficiencies that they could apply to their own administrations. This is an important matter when we discuss the subject of giving the States further assistance with their programs and to maintain employment. Inflation certainly is the main problem. 
One useful advance has been made in the debate on inflation in Australia. Both sides of politics admit there is inflation and both sides of politics admit the cause. I want to quote from a statement made on 4 December last by  Mr Hawke.  He said: 
We can't excuse the Government for the record level of unemployment. 
That in itself is an amazing admission. It is complete substantiation, because it comes from the Labor side of politics; it comes from the  President  of the Australian Labor Party, speaking in one of his 2 major capacities. He was speaking as  president  of the Party which pre-selected the honourable senators who sit opposite here in this House.  Mr Hawke  said that the Government could not be excused from the reasons which have caused unemployment in Australia. That is complete vindication of the Opposition's point of view in the debate this afternoon. All one need do is frame that quotation, hang it on some notice board and cease the debate. The point of this debate has been proven because of what  Mr Hawke  said. If the  President  of the Australian Labor Party says that the Government cannot be excused, I would suggest that it is little excuse for Ministers and back benchers to say that it can be excused.  Mr Hawke  continued and said: 
They made too many wrong decisions taken on bud advice. However, we'll still try to co-operate with the Government to try to save and restore jobs. 
I tender that statement as evidence that the  President  of the Party of honourable senators opposite has said that the Opposition today is right. Taking further the subject of the general admission of the cause of the problem, on 28 January this year the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was quoted under the heading Whitlam Blames Crisis on Wages' as follows: 
Wage demands were now the cause of inflation and unemployment in Australia. 

 Mr Snedden followed that on 27 January by saying that the Prime Minister had now conceded what the Opposition Parties had been saying for some time- that wage claims were to blame for unemployment and inflation. So we have  Mr Hawke  saying that the Government is blameworthy in this situation of the creation of unemployment, and we have  Mr Whitlam  and  Mr Snedden  saying that wage and salary claims are the most significant factor in the causes of inflation in this country. That,  Mr President,  is a very powerful conjunction of thought on the part of the political leaders in Australia. 
The subject was taken further by a  Mr Richard  Ackland in an article he wrote which appeared in the 'Australian Financial Review' on 13 January this year. In that article he quoted the Minister for Labor and Immigration,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, as follows: 
The substantial increase in female award rates had its effect on female intensive industries, '  Mr Cameron  said. 
For the year ended September 1974 the award rate for adult females in the textile, clothing and footwear industries increased by 5 1 .2 per cent. 

 Mr Cameron said that these industries simply were not able to cope with such a short sharp increase in wage costs. 
I must revert to  Mr Cameron's  general view,  Mr President.  He could not resist saying this, according to the same article: 
While we have a system that can be manipulated by giant multi-national corporations we have to expect employment to fall whenever wage costs reduce profits to levels that are unacceptable to foreign board-rooms. 
So, even after there has been a general admission of the cause of inflation, even in the same general article in which he is quoted  Mr Cameron  went on to blame the multi-national companies for the failure of the present Federal Government. All I can say is: How false is that claim. If only  Mr Cameron  would listen to those who lead industry in Australia, multi-nationals or otherwise. 
I would have preferred to think that the motion would be passed in the form in which it was presented to the House. It is obvious now that the amendment will be accepted. At least we will have an expression from the Senate, in part, that there ought to be an observance by the New South Wales Government of the convention which has been adhered to since the proportional representation system for the election of the Senate originated in 1949. Referring to the general tone of the contributions to the debate from this side of the House, I had always thought before I became too closely associated with some aspects of the non-Labor Parties in Australia that our side of politics was a little better than the other. I had always thought that we had some ideals that we could present to the public and which would appeal more than those of others. Yet I found tonight that the Leader of the Opposition in this place  (Senator Withers)  justified his tacit defence of the Premier of New South Wales by saying that his actions were no worse than the actions of the Labor Party. In the process of putting his argument and his deductions he went on to say that because the Labor Party had done things which in his opinion were distasteful, so others ought to be excused for doing things which were distasteful. 
-He did say it and an examination of Hansard tomorrow will show it. If the Leader of the Opposition were in the commercial world he would be subject to some restrictions of the law for presenting an argument as fallacious as he presented here tonight. 
-He could not stand the Trade Practices Act being applied in the commercial sense to his presentation of argument because he said that one bad action justified another. I was rather incredulous when I found that that thought had crept into  Senator Guilfoyle's  argument, the honourable senator who just resumed her seat. She talked about a necessary respect for the Premier of New South Wales. Respect for a Premier is not automatic, lt has to be earned. So far the Premier of New South Wales has not earned it. As a spectator I was willing to be somewhat charitable about one remarkable statement he made in Melbourne soon after his election as Premier of New South Wales. I understand that he said: 'One vote one value is'- expletive deleted- 'nonsense'. I thought that his attitude in supporting the Queensland attack on one vote one value as a principle of justice in the Australian community was something that could be excused as a new Premier's enthusiasm. But now we have this second attack on the general conception of democracy in Australia. He will have to take further action . . . 
. . . in other directions,  Senator Wright,  to earn the respect of Australians. It is not good enough for honourable senators on this side of the House or the Premier of New South Wales to argue political points in justification of the avoidance of the responsibility of adhering to a political convention of such great value. The greatest part of the arguments from honourable senators on this side of the House tonight have been entirely party political. They related to party policies and attitudes and were used to excuse a Premier who would attack the system. This was another demonstration by people who cannot discern the difference between a political discussion and a retention of a system which enables that discussion to proceed. People far more eloquent than I am on the Liberal side of politics thankfully have expressed this in clear and no uncertain terms. Those Liberals who sprang to the defence of the convention and custom which we arc defending tonight should receive great praise from their side of politics.  Mr Lewis,  by his statement of intended action, has substantially let down all Liberals throughout Australia who have supported his Party, either at elections or with finance. Because of his statement all of us on this side of politics are a little diminished. 
There has been talk tonight of State rights. All Premiers, except the Queensland Premier I understand, have said that this convention should be adhered to. I would have thought that it was a tacit State right to do the proper thing by this convention. Who is abrogating the obligation to uphold State rights now? Is it the Commonwealth Government or the Government of New South Wales by the stated intention of its leader? Who preaches State rights in this matter? It is easy to run to the Constitution and to say what this amendment does, that the responsibility is finally with the Parliament of New South Wales, but I believe that if this convention is breached it will be necessary to find some device to be put to the Australian public by referendum to secure a proper way of selection of replacement senators for resigned or departed senators rather than to rely on the whims and political choices of people such as  Mr Lewis.  I believe that will be the obligation of this Government if  Mr Lewis  proceeds with his stated intention. It will be the obligation of the Federal Government to put to the Australian people at the earliest opportunity a referendum to alter the Constitution to put beyond doubt the method of choice of successors and to prevent the piracy which has been intended in this case. 
-That can be handled. 
It has been thought of in great depth. There are procedures. There is one written into the Constitution of Tasmania. It is not totally satisfactory, but it is written into the Constitution of that State. It is operative. There have been other recommendations which  Senator Webster  can study and which are at his disposal. There is no totally satisfactory means. The intended action is not satisfactory. I believe that if the convention is breached in this way it would surely be the least desirable choice of all those which may be devised. 
We are not talking about what happens in Tasmania. We are talking about what is about to happen in New South Wales where there will be an attack on the general concept of democracy as held by most of Australia. That is what we are talking about. 

 Senator Durack, by his interjection, is tacitly supporting the person who makes this attack. I return to this point: Where have all the brave Liberals been during the crisis upon the matter of a replacement senator? There have been a few. I said earlier that they should be raised to the highest level of regard by Liberals in Australia. Where have all the other brave Liberals been? We know very well that if more Federal Liberals had spoken clearly yesterday or the day before the matter would be beyond doubt. Even this amendment will give the Premier of New South Wales some little let-out. May I warn those people who will appease others that it will not work ultimately. I have had long experience- too long experience- with the sort of people who would perpetrate such an act on a community. I remember clearly over a number of years appeasing those who would circumvent democracy. I remember coming to the peak of that appeasement in 1972 when I agreed to a scheme for the redistribution of boundaries for the upper House in South Australia. I subverted my entire political principles in that appeasement when I agreed to a new scheme for the election of Legislative Councillors in South Australia. It was new and was supposed to be democratic. It was worked out after long months behind closed doors so that the public's will in South Australia would not be effective in the upper House. 
I say that with considerable emphasis. There were long months of consideration. The words used, after many hours of discussion, were to prevent the will of the public from coming through and being effective in the upper House in South Australia. For party solidarity we agreed to appease. We approved a scheme which had a 2 to 1 weighting against city voters. Within 6 weeks the people who demanded that concession were demanding further concessions, after getting concessions to their undemocratic principles year after year. I warn members of the Liberal Party that to give in to these people is simply to encourage them to ask for more. One Liberal said to me tonight: 'What do we do later? Do we take hand grenades with us? What is the next action after this?' There can be no defence. If it is wrong, it is wrong. This deals with the principle of the manner in which legislation is formed in this country. 1 repeat that we should be careful to stick to the subject of the argument and to make sure that we do not use someone else's alleged bad conduct as an excuse for our own side's bad conduct. That is as high as the Opposition's argument has run tonight. The argument is: The others have done something bad; it is not so bad if we do it ourselves. Where have the high ideals of those who support the Liberal Party throughout Australia gone? They rest with those who spoke first, and all credit to them. If honourable senators do not like the principle they will have to face it on another occasion. 
It is interesting to note the people who supported  Mr Lewis's  stated intention. One is the Premier of Queensland. An article in last week's Nation Review' reports an interview which the Premier gave on the British Broadcasting Commission in London. I am having its authenticity checked. My first preliminary check indicates that it is correct. This is as it is reported. These are  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  's remarks on the BBC: 
Gough Whitlam has this delusion that he speaks for Australia on these trips he makes around the world. There is no Australia . . . 
Nobody seems to understand. There is no Australia. There are 6 separate, sovereign States in Australia, and I have come to London to make it very clear to the Queen, the Prime Minister, and the responsible Ministers that Whitlam simply has no right to travel around the world as though he actually had some competence to represent Australia. 
I will not take the matter any further until I receive authentic backing for that report, which I hope to get from the BBC. I leave it before the Senate as a statement which I understand the Premier has not yet challenged. He is one of the people who have supported  Mr Lewis  in his early intention. I have further remarks to make about this matter but I understand that the Manager of Government Business in the Senate  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  wishes to make progress with legislation tonight. Therefore I ask for leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I do not wish to speak for very long. I shall simply sum up the remarks I made last night. I refer again to the point I made when I started to speak to the motion. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  adopted an extremely low tone in his approach to this question and adopted the basic attitude that if something was done by the other side which in his opinion was wrong, his side was entitled to retaliate in the same fashion. This attitude was somewhat disputed by interjection last night. I have since had a chance to study the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition and I would like to remind the House of some of them. He said:  -this is not a matter of high moral principle about which he-  referring to the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt)-  prated for some moments. It is nothing but a naked political vehicle by which the Commonwealth Government can attack the State governments. 
I remind the House of the very basis of why this motion has to be discussed at all so that honourable senators can judge who is being unfair. The Leader of the Opposition went on to say:  -this is nothing but a vehicle to attack  Mr Lewis  and the Liberal-Country Party of New South Wales. As for this rather phoney argument that the vacancy at present occurring was democratically filled by a million electors and their will must continue, who did those electors elect? They elected an individual . . . This is who they elected. 
He then went on to say: 
The Government is saying that the electors voted for a Labor ticket. Well, that is a denigration of democracy. 
I remind the House that the Leader of the Opposition said that to vote for a party ticket in a Senate election is a denigration of democracy. He went on to make other statements of a similar nature, but I shall quote only one more. When he referred to the handling of this matter he said: 
It should not be done by the device of trying to attack our State colleagues for taking mean political advantage of a situation. 
Who is taking mean political advantage of the situation? This is where I reprove, with the Leader of the Opposition's own words, his attitude to this question. He referred to taking mean political advantage. His statement is very similar to the statement that the Premier of New South 
Wales made. The Premier was asked whether he thought the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  would retaliate at the Premiers Conference. I shall paraphrase his remarks in reply, but they can be looked up. They had this direct meaning". 'That would be pretty petty'. The Premier of New South Wales is willing to break a convention agreed to in writing by previous Premiers when it was first established and  to  charge anyone else who takes retaliation as being pretty petty. Since last night we have been able to see what the public is thinking and what the leader writers of Australia are thinking. The comments of these writers are extremely interesting. They do not support the defence of  Mr Lewis  that was put up here last night by the Liberal and Country Parties. I believe that a firmer statement has been made, by the 'Age'. In referring to  Mr Lewis  it states: 
While he and his Cabinet contemplate what ought to bc the inconceivable, the Federal Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  should act like the Federal leader he is supposed to be and tell  Mr Lewis,  firmly and sharply, where his democratic duty lies. 
The reports today are that it took  Mr Snedden  until Wednesday to make a telephone call about this matter. The 'Australian Financial Review' deals with this matter in fairly lengthy substance. I will not use a great deal of what it states to enhance my argument but I use these comments: 
If  Mr Lewis  is granted his wish and Australians have to trudge to the polls for the third time in less than 30 months what a great finale it should be for  Mr Whitlam. 
The Labor leader was able to make great play in the 1974 campaign of the obvious differences between  Mr Snedden  and  Mr Anthony. 
Now we have a State Liberal Premier helping to force an election on grounds that the Federal Liberal leader docs not agree with. 
On top of this  Mr Snedden  is at odds with  Mr Anthony  on upholding the convention, a former Liberal Prime Minister has said  Mr Lewis  is mad. while another Liberal from bencher,  Mr Killen,  and the Victorian Premier have thrown their weight behind the same party appointee convention. 
What a ringer of a campaign for  Mr Whitlam.  Half the Liberal Party including its leader is on his side for a start. 

 Mr Lewis wants to be known as iron fisted. "IT people arc playing it tough, then I play it tough too, "he said. 
The Premier who wants to bc called iron fisted may yet go down in history as iron headed. 
The 'Canberra Times' ends its leader today with this statement: 

 Mr Lewis may not yet have broken the convention- and it is the fervent hope of this newspaper that he will not- hut hehas made it unsafe. Because a convention is a matter of honour and trust it cannot stand the assaults of political brigands.  Mr Lewis  has demonstrated that, even if he is bluffing, he is not a man to be trusted in such matters. 
I remind honourable senators on this side of the House that he is a Liberal. 
I do not like the trend of this situation. I fervently hope that  Mr Lewis  will reverse his stand on this matter and his intention to appoint a Liberal or someone other than the Labor Party nominee. I do so on behalf of my own colleagues in South Australia. There are 2 Labor governed States in this country. In South Australia I have 3 political colleagues who in the choice of a replacement senator would hold the balance of power between the so-called Liberal Party, the one Country Party member and the Labor Party. There are distinctly 3 members who stand between the 32 members on one side ofthe House and the 32 members on the other side. I do not want my colleagues in South Australia to come under pressure to break the convention again to right a wrong that was done in another State. I do not in any way wish that on those people, because their intention most certainly would be to uphold the convention. What would honourable senators on this side of the Chamber want them to do today, next week or next month if the question was raised? What would honourable senators on this side of the House ask them to do? I suppose they could point to the resolution which the Opposition has watered down and which the Government has accepted in its place. I suppose honourable senators could say: 'Well, this is our intention'. As I said last night and as the 'Age' has clearly said Liberals have not given the leadership on this matter that they should have. It is the old story. 
-They have not given the leadership and  Senator Wright  is aware of that. It is that inability to lead which is the reason why the Liberals are so outgeneralled and out-gunned in the other place every day of the week. 
-Senator Wright can explain why his Party has defended  Mr Lewis  so vigorously in this House. 
I will get on to the provocation in a minute- in fact right now. What is the reason for this strange Liberal lethargy? Why are we so backward on our side in politics in upholding the principle ofthe democratic election of members to Parliament and of this convention which is to continue it? Why are honourable senators on this side of the chamber so backward? I believe the answer lies in the fact that the moderates are too silent. The moderates in the Liberal Party of Australia are in deep trouble. One of their troubles is their own fear to speak up. 
As I said last night, I know from bitter experience that not to speak is to lose to the extremists. This is so evident in this particular case. One of the disappointments of members of the Liberal Party around Australia today is the way they strictly caucus their members. It is certainly not what the Liberal tradition used to be in the State I come from. I use the words 'used to be' because since Liberalism has divided on itself in South Australia and now declines under the Party which still represents it, it has begun to caucus itself strictly also on the State scene. Liberals are frightened to speak because they are bound by strict Party votes. That is not the way a strong Liberal Party should conduct itself. 
-No, we did not.  Senator Webster  is wrong. Under the Playford Administration in South Australia there was never a vote taken in the Party room. 
I congratulate the Liberal Party in Queensland if that is the case. 
If honourable senators here are trying to say that no votes are taken in the Liberal Party room, that they are not held to votes, let them get up and say so. 
I am not worried about the general rule. I want to know what went on here and how undertakings were given to caucus. We know very well that the Liberal Party of Australia is too strongly bound and that those who are moderate are silenced under the discipline of a party which demands that silence. The situation is certainly one in which, if the moderates cannot speak up and give the leadership that is required, we will find - 
-Senator Laucke speaks to this matter by interjection. So that he will remember, let me tell him this: There are members of the Liberal Party from South Australia in this chamber and in the lower House who have promised in private conversations to support reforms but when they have gone into the Party room they have folded their tents and gone away. 
I am talking in the State sense, for  Senator Jessop  's requirements. That relates to the Party meetings which I have attended. I have seen those who would say in private that they would support reform in moderation and when the time of test would come they would slink away. This is a public issue. We have a public instance of this happening now. The remarks made last night by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  and as recorded in Hansard indicate that clearly. He joins the Liberal Premier of New South Wales in everything but the vote which he will give to the amendment here today. 1 refer again to the so-called moderates. I think it was  Senator Jessop  who, by interjection last night, spoke about my blackmailing the party in South Australia into preselectingwe will ask him when he comes backMartin Cameron as a replacement senator in this place and who was elected by South Australia - 
I do withdraw because I have made a mistake. It was  Senator Young.  If I looked at  Senator Jessop  and made that mistake, I am sorry. 
I have no reason to offend these gentlemen. I withdraw that if necessary. It brings up a situation which I was using only in general explanation. I do not take offence at the honourable senator's remarks. It does not worry me because those things are said continually about this situation. In relation to the preselection of Martin Cameron I simply say that I understand the opposition of  Senator Jessop  was great- I do not want to misconstrue himand I think  Senator Young  was very much against his preselection. The basis of the argument within the South Australian Liberal Party in opposition to the preselecton of Martin Cameron was that he was a moderate. He believed in one vote one value, especially in relation to the upper House in South Australia. That was the great public argument which his preselection caused in our State. 
It was the beginning of the very public argument about whether people should have an equal say in their affairs in the South Australian Parliament. It was the first public argument which gathered about that preselection at that time. For  Senator Wright's  information, that is why the preselecton of  Senator Cameron,  as he was later, became so much a political issue on our side of politics in our State. I do not want to charge  Senator Young  but that is how I heard him introduce it last night. If I misheard, I do not want to continue saying it and he can put it right, but that is as I heard it last night. 
I am not worried about the terms he used. I appreciate his raising the subject because he raises a very big one about the conflict between moderates and extremists within our side of politics. Having had that experience from those previous years I listened to the extremists speaking here last night. By no method of simply speaking in support of  Mr Lewis  but voting for a watered down motion, can they get around their responsibility which they hereby take on themselves on this question. I support the amendment because it would be divisive to do otherwise. I would certainly appreciate a stronger motion rather than a let out for  Mr Lewis  and those Liberals who were too weak to speak out at the crucial time, namely, on the first occasion the controversy arose this week. I applaud the Government for the stand that it has taken, and I subscribe to hardly any of the speech of the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate which was more disgraceful than any he charged Government members with having made. 
A great deal of extravagant language seems to have been used tonight. I suppose that in one sense this is the most divisive discussion about Darwin since the disaster struck that city. I take issue with  Senator Gietzelt  when he says that the Opposition, in seeking to move amendments in this House, is listening to subversive elements in Darwin. That, I think, is something that on reflection  Senator Gietzelt  will regret having said. It is unfair to those citizens who have sought to retain at the most local and closest level some effective say in how the city of Darwin will be reconstructed. That, whether it is right or wrong, is a natural desire and it is not to be labelled subversion. 

 Senator Gietzelt also, of course, predicated his argument on something which assumes that the Northern Territory, particularly Darwin, is to be controlled from Darwin. He said that the modern application of town planning is to have the final, in fact paramount, say in the hands of the Minister. What Minister? There is no Minister for Town Planning in the Northern Territory. The Northern Territory is at the dawn of its evolution in political terms, as it seeks statehood some time in the future. It is, therefore, a very special case. What  Senator Gietzelt  is saying is that he wants to put the clock back rather than forward by retaining absolute control of the reconstruction of Darwin here in Canberra, instead of allowing some new political development in Darwin on the lines that have developed in the other States of Australia, when it can look forward to having perhaps its own type of ministerial control and its own town planner situated at least in the Northern Territory- one would expect in Darwin. I find great inconsistency in  Senator Gietzelt  's remarks. I certainly deplore the extravagance of the language he has used. 
I believe too that some fault has developed on the side of the Opposition in assuming that the Government is at great fault. The Government has much to be proud of in the way it has handled the Darwin disaster. Until this time there has been very little public criticism of what it has done. It can point with some pride to the fact that there was a disaster organisation set up within its term in office which enabled a very swift reaction to the cyclone disaster in Darwin. One can only assume that it would be proud of the swift reaction to the call for assistance. So if the amendments are largely passed here tonight and the people of Darwin are able through canvassing members of this Parliament to effect amendments which sufficiently recognise the local desire to participate in the Darwin reconstruction we may very well have an ideal Bill passing out of this Parliament. It seems to me a pity that in the process of getting together a Bill which may please most people and serve the reconstruction of Darwin well this chamber should divide on a political basis when it ought not to do so. 
I will listen to arguments on the amendments but I feel committed to support the major amendments that are to be moved by the Opposition. I will listen with care to the arguments which are put up in support of them and to those which do not support them. I do not intend to try to be an expert on Darwin. I spent a day and a half in the middle of January in that city. I did so on the basis that one ought to have a look at it because I expected that there would be in the future some discussion and perhaps division on what ought to be done about its reconstruction. One thought I came away with, and that was not with any idea that I had an overall knowledge of the problems of that place after such a short stay there, was that the cost structures which would develop in Darwin under the pressure of that enormous reconstruction which would have to be undertaken there would have to be very carefully watched. 
After talking with local business people and those who held responsible positions in the city I believed and I still believe that the Government should take action in relation to the tax structure as it affects the city of Darwin. I found upon my return that others had taken this up before I had. The member for the Northern Territory in the House of Representatives,  Mr Calder,  had put forward a case for substantial tax alleviation in Darwin a day or two after the disastrous cyclone struck. I know that there was a report in the media of one of the members of the Legislative Assembly in the Northern Territory recommending that there ought to be a year's delay in tax collection. On my return from Darwin I, quite independently submitted to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that there ought to be for the remainder of this financial year and 2 further financial years an exemption from personal income tax and company tax in the disaster area of Darwin. I suggested also that there ought to be a remission of sales tax on all goods purchased as replacements for goods lost in the Darwin disaster for a period of 18 months until the end of June 1976. The Prime Minister was good enough to send a reply from his Treasury officers without expressing any political opinion as to the Government's view of the general submissions which had been made to it on tax relief. 
Whilst I recognise the general official view that it would be somewhat difficult in a sense to isolate income earned in Darwin and to isolate for sales tax purposes the goods sold in Darwin for use in the Northern Territory, I find none of the objections overriding and none to be greater than those, now existing in respect of the application of other tax concessions in the rest of Australia. For instance in relation to sales tax it is well known that primary production, as one instance, has a general exemption from sales tax on many goods which are used in the furtherance of that industry. One way to obtain an exemption is simply by signing a form at the point of purchase. I suggest that that would be far more likely to be abused across the general complexity of life in Australia than it would be in a place such as Darwin which is so easily isolated in a geographical sense. I would suggest that if encouragement is needed in the Darwin area to entice experts, tradesmen and people who work in industry or will have to work in industry there to restore that city, and a very fomidible physical task it represents, it would be better if the whole of Australia bore that cost by way of a reduction of taxation so that the incentive can be given in that way rather than by way of an over-inflated wage structure. Once the economy of Darwin is inflated specifically because of the special demands which are made by its reconstruction it will be very difficult in the future to contain costs and bring them back to normalcy with those in the rest of Australia. 
In addition local business organisations will tell those who are interested that there is an enormous requirement for capital to replace that which was lost in its many forms in the disaster. One of the surest ways to accomplish a resurgence of business and commerce in Darwin is to make it tax free for a significant period and I suggest that  2Vi  years is a significant period of time. I remind honourable senators that taxation remission or freedom from taxation existed in the Northern Territory, I think, from 1 945 to 1 950. It is therefore not without precedent for a tax free period such as this to apply specifically to the Darwin area. If honourable senators want to see what a remission of taxation does there are plenty of places in the world to show how it will revitalise the community and do it very swiftly. I suggest it would not be unfair and would be the best way to create a resurgence of business there without over-inflating the general economy above that of the rest of Australia. 
I urge the Government to take careful note of the submissions which have been made to it, not to be put off by difficulties of detail which already exist in other aspects of taxation applications in Australia, but to see the general prinicple. I believe that there would be enormous cooperation from people involved and that a normal surveillance of the system would prevent its basic misuse beyond that which would exist in other areas today. This policy, however, would have to be adopted quite early because businesses and individuals will soon have to take significant planning steps. I suggest that the Government ought to decide very soon to take some action in relation to taxation remission and that it should not be niggardly about it. I believe that the rest of Australia would not begrudge the tax loss which would, of course, be borne by the general community during that period. I would like to say a little more but it is obvious that much that has been said tonight ought not to have been said and I suggest that we and the people of Darwin would be better served if we got off the second reading stage and attended to the amendments. 
I move: 
Delete the words 'General Manager or an' and substitute 3'for'2'. 
-Senator Everett is correct. I hope that  Senator Carrick  is following this better than I am. I alter my amendment so that it reads: 
Delete the words 'the General Manager or an Acting General Manager' and substitute '3 ' for '2'. 
I hope I understand the concept of a town plan but I am not sure of what 'a determination affecting the use of land' could mean under this amendment and how small an event 'a determination affecting the use of land ' could be and how frequently such determinations should be given. I assume it is a good principle that people should have the right to object, as previous speakers from this side of the chamber have said, and that they should have the right for their objection to be heard. At least the final power rests with the Commission to decide whether or not there is worth and merit in that objection. I would not like to approve something which could be a continual hazard to the Commission in performing the duties expected of it. I would like some explanation, if possible, as to what the proponents or objectors to this amendment see in the words 'or a determination'. Can that be a continuing number of isolated decisions quite outside the general concept of a town plan which could raise hazards in the progress of the Commission? I would like an answer if possible. 
I believe that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  raised a very proper point when he pointed out the width of possible objections that may be lodged by a person who may be affected by a combination of a town plan or a determination if the clause refers to 'a town plan or a determination'. It seems to me that it is much wider than one would want it to be as a basis for possible objection by someone affected. I therefore believe that there ought to be a limitation of one or the other. I would be happy to accept 'town plan' or 'determination' if the people who are affected are limited. I think one or the other has to remain, but the two together support the Minister's objection. Possibly the fairest way- I have discussed this possibility with  Senator Durack-  is to limit the scope of the people who could be affected by the appeals mechanism. I suggest that the Opposition might very well take out of sub-clause (2) the words 'a person who may' and insert the words 'any person who has an interest in any land'. The subclause would then read: 
Where a town plan or determination has been exhibited in accordance with this section, any person who has an interest in any land affected by the town plan or determination may lodge - 
I would imagine that the word 'interest' would cover not only financial interest and ownership but also previous or present residential interest. It would overcome the difficulty and very markedly restrict the possible appeals that would be lodged. I think it would also meet the Minister's objection and still provide a very fair hearing for those who object to the way their life has been altered by the Commission's decisions. 
I am willing to vote for  Senator Durack  's amendment on the basis that he last proposed it, that is, that some better wording and closer definitions are drafted in the interim period. I do point out that assess and award compensation for any loss or damage' is obviously too wide and I would support the Minister in his objection to that. In voting for the amendment I want to make it quite clear that I do so on the basis of the latter part of  Senator Durack  's statement. 
I did not think it would be necessary for me to say anything on this amendment. I think that in the light of the remarks of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  I should. I intend to support the amendment. I do not support it believing that it will accomplish the organisation which the Minister has described. It seems to me a very fair compromise between the powers which we on this side of the chamber think the Darwin Reconstruction Commission ought to have and the powers which the Government thinks it ought to have. The amendment clearly sets out that if there is a difference in policy between the Minister for the Northern Territory and the Commission, Cabinet shall decide. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has agreed. He talked of Cabinet's responsibility extending to the money which would be spent in the Government's name. The amendment seems to me an excellent compromise. I vote for it knowing that in the event of controversy the Government's will will prevail. That is not taking from the Government any final matters of decision on policy. The Minister has said that the issue would be raised only on a matter of controversy on matters of major policy. The amendment places the control in the hands of Cabinet. 
We are talking about Darwin and its reconstruction. The Commission is a special body. Otherwise we would not need this legislation. I speak not to widen the debate but to put into words what I am voting for. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Durack's amendment)  be left out. 
Yesterday the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  won me in his explanation of why he did not want this amendment passed. 
I do not know to whom one's loyalties should go in this Bill. I know where I put mine. I give my loyalty to the needs of the people of Darwin as I see them and as they are to be ministered to by this Commission. I am not concerned with the precepts of the Australian Labor Party or the Liberal Party in my deliberations on this Bill. If that satisfies the Minister, I can now tell him that if he does not want the Opposition's amendment to proceed I will support him. If that puts him in some difficulty in view of his previous remarks, it is not my fault. This is the first occasion I have been able to speak on this amendment. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 14 and 15- by leave- taken together and agreed to. 
Clause 16. 
) The Commission may, by notice under the seal of the Commission, or a person authorized by writing under the seal of the Commission to give directions under this section may, by oral direction, direct all or any persons or person to leave, or prohibit all or any persons or person from entering, premises in the Darwin Area that, in the opinion of the Commission or of the authorized person, as the case may be, are in a dangerous condition or unfit for occupation and a person shall comply with any such direction that is applicable to him. 
Penalty: $ 1 , 000 or imprisonment for 3 months, or both. 
I found it very difficult to help the Minister today in a previous experience in this House about another amendment, but I shall try again and say that I do not agree entirely with what has been put by  Senator Carrick,  although I recognise the principle involved in the move; that is, to make sure that the thoughts and aspirations of Darwin citizens are not lost in a commission which is dominated, in theory perhaps, by members chosen from outside that city. I do believe that to increase the number of members on the Commission is to increase its unwieldiness. An additional member would lend something to the weight of numbers and the effect that has on the committee structure. I should imagine that a  chairman  of the calibre of  Sir Leslie  Thiess is obviously someone who would be above a play on local politics or overweighted representation of the Government's interests and could be set above those interests. Therefore there ought to be a balance beneath his chairmanship, and that balance should be ideally, as far as Darwin residents are concerned, no worse than three to three. I should be very happy to support a proposition which established a balance in that way, but I believe that the  chairman  should not be counted as one of the balance, and I think that is one of the failures of the Opposition's proposal in using a four to four comparison. 
I should therefore like to help the Minister to some degree, if he will accept the help this time, by suggesting that the Commission should remain at seven, but I agree in principle- an important principle, I believe- with the Opposition's proposal that the manager should be a working manager, subject to the decisions and disciplines and encouragements of the commission, and should not be a member of it. That is a principle well founded in other statutory or semi-statutory bodies and one which should be promoted here. I therefore propose, if the Minister would like to follow this, that the Senate oppose amendment No. 8, which increases the size of the Commission and leave the number at seven; to support amendment No. 9, which removes the general manager as a member of the commission and places in his stead a member of the Darwin Citizens' Council- the council which was formally set up and approved under this legislation; to oppose amendment No. 10, which sets out to increase the representation of the House of Assembly; and to support clause 1 1 , which is consequential on the removal of the  chairman  as a member of the Commission. 
Yes, the manager. The Minister will see from that that by setting the  chairman  undoubtedly above any considerations of local interests or far-flung interests, one would find under his chairmanship the possibility, let me say the certainty, of three local Darwinian representatives on the Commission. 
-That is at least, and that is all that they could expect, no doubt, in looking at legislation which leaves the other members unnamed and unpositioned. But at least Darwin residents have the certainty of an equal representation under the  chairman.  That would leave two other members to be appointed at the discretion of the Governor-General, and the appointment of the  deputy chairman,  also at the Governor-General's behest. I can see no fairer way of altering this than that. I do believe, and I fully agree with  Senator Carrick,  that as it stands now it could be construed by Darwin residents as being loaded against their interests, and that is not a good way to start a commission which must deal essentially with goodwill, hopefully with goodwill, rather than with a heavy disciplinarian hand resting on this legislation. I commend to the Minister what I think is a very sensible middle course, and I hope that the Opposition will accept the middle course, which I think achieves the Opposition's aim without real loss, an aim which I support and with which I am not at variance except in important detail. I should like to think that the Opposition will not press, for instance, for the enlargement of the Commission, which I think tends to alter the balances. One cannot then neatly refer to balances, and the enlargement of the Commission would bring the  chairman  into a position of balance where he ought not to be placed, even in thinking about the matter. He is undoubtedly above any thoughts of balance. I hope that this time the Minister will accept the middle course help that I offer to him. 
I feel that the Minister has been a very bad influence on some parts of the legislation and his influence is now extending to members of his own Party.  Senator Georges  has no right to assume that he knows how this amendment - 
I tried to stand up and the honourable senator stood up before me. That is his right, but if the honourable senator decides to use his prior right and assumes how I am going to vote, that is his business. I thought I might be able to say how I am going to vote instead of the honourable senator telling me how I will vote. I outlined quite clearly to the Committee how I proposed to vote on the 4 amendments before the House. I indicated that I would vote against the amendment which would increase the membership of the Commission from the Legislative Assembly from 1 to 2. 1 indicated that membership of the Commission should stay at the same number as originally intended, that is 7 members. This would provide a balance underneath the  Chairman-  which would not include the  Chairman-  of, theoretically, 3 members from the Government side and 3 members with local interest. Therefore  Senator Georges  remarks are not only out of order but also are distinctly wrong. Still pursuing the general principle that  Senator Carrick  has moved to create a balance I oppose this amendment which would increase the membership of the Commission to 8 and achieve a balance. I believe a balance would be achieved more effectively with a total number of 7 members. 
It seems to me that this part of clause 18 ought to be tidied up as a consequence of the amendments made to the constitution of the Commission earlier in the clause. That would then remove any intention which was stated by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  and would leave the Commission with the ability to commence to perform its functions without any inhibition caused by the alteration that had been made. That could be done by simply removing the reference to the General Manager- that is consequential without his being taken out of the earlier stages of the amendment- and increasing the number of other members from 2 to 3. I have not been through the clause with the finest of combs but it would then read: 
The Commission may commence to perform its functions and exercise its powers when the  Chairman,  the Acting General Manager and 3 other members have been appointed . . . 
We would have no impasse at all then and the Commission would not be held up for one iota of time. I suggest that that is the best way of doing it. It is a consequential amendment which leaves the same number of appointees as the Minister had to begin with. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  is descending to the same level of argument as he reached during the debate on another Bill relating to the Commonwealth-State roads agreement that he piloted through this chamber. On that occasion he roared out of this place saying that the Bill would fall rather than that the Government would accept amendments, but later on, under advise from his colleagues, he came back and accepted amendments. Therefore his words in this chamber are not to be taken too seriously but are simply evidence of the fact that he is very cross with the Senate because he has not got his own way about this Bill. He resorts to misconceptions and misleading advice to the Committee. It is within his Government's province to appoint the 3 members as well as the  chairman  who must be appointed to the Commission. They can be the  deputy chairman  and two others. If any honourable senator in this place is in any doubt as to who the representative from the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly will be he obviously has been hiding because it is well known. There is no problem about that matter. In any case, there can be no hasty appointments, because they are made by the Governor-General. Therefore the time-table of appointment and the operation of this Commission lie within the ministerial and governmental area, not outside it. 
-The Minister must admit that the numbers required to be members of the Commission to allow it to operate are unaltered. He must admit that point. They were to be the  chairman,  the alternative of general manager or acting general manager, and two others. I ask the Minister how many there are to be under this amendment? There will be the  chairman  and three others, still a total of four. The Minister was talking nonsense when he said that there was some impediment put in the way of the Commission's operations. There were to be 4 members for which the Government was responsible and there still are. No impediment whatsoever has been put in regard to the time-table for the operation of the Commission, any more than was placed in this Bill by the Minister who authorised it. 
I am sorry that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  sees a great deal of sinister plotting involved in the desire of Darwin residents to have as much say as they legitimately can have in the rebuilding of their city. 
I hope that most Darwin residents will take an interest in the rebuilding of their city and I have no doubt that the legislation, the way it is framed, would encourage them to do so. I believe that the amendments have also been framed to encourage them to do so. I think that the local residents have done very well by the amendments which have been carried so far. Local representation has beengreatly enhanced by the amendments moved by  Senator Durack  and  Senator Carrick  today. Quite opposite to the accusation that the Minister made about my part in helping to carry the amendments, I am proud to help carry them, and I do so acknowledging no plot or sinister motives behind their movement in the Senate by their movers. 
Again the Minister is being difficult to help but I intended to help him with this amendment and, despite his attitude, I will. I think there is a great deal in what the Minister says about not wishing to duplicate the representations which are involved on this Commission. If this Citizens' Council is being appointed in essence by the Assembly I think that the Minister has a legitimate point when he says that it could be in some ways a replica of the Assembly itself. That would not be a desirable thing. It should limit the width of proper representation of the views that could come to the Commission. If there is some median line with some people appointing some members and other people appointing others we will get to a complicated situation. I do not believe that the Committee is in a condition to divide the amendment and to divide the responsibility of appointing the 20 members of the advisory committee. I do not feel disposed to support the amendment. I think there is some substance in the Minister's objection that it could lead to duplication. In any case I think we must also show some confidence in the Minister. There needs to be confidence in all who are involved in this matter. I am willing to show confidence in the Minister, certainly on this occasion. 

 - Senator Marriott has drifted far away from the amendment and has brought politics deeply into the question. He might like to explain to the Committee why he voted against the right of persons in the Northern Territory to elect senators. That might very well finish the argument. I suggest that would be sufficient cause for him to withdraw from the argument he has put about a very narrow matter in this Bill. The Minister for the Northern Territory has been stripped of much of the power that the Government intended to give him. This amendment is quite another matter. It is quite misleading to extend the argument on this amendment over all the Bill. I remind  Senator Marriott  that if he had followed the debate carefully he would have found that this clause was one of the few clauses in which the Minister retains power. It would be well for him to study it clearly and see that. As the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  has said, the clause prevents duplication in the selection of those involved in the vast community effort of rebuilding Darwin. 
It seems to me that sub-clause (2) (a) does give the Darwin Citizens' Council the capacity, where it thinks desirable to do so, to give advice to the Commission in relation to any matter that is likely to affect the interests of persons who are or become resident in the Darwin area. To me that does not seem to have any limitation. I know that it does not spell out an ombudsman's role, but if that is to be spelt out in other legislation, why do it here? There just does not seem to be any limitation. I wonder how the honourable senators who have proposed the amendment would answer what I read into paragraph (a) of subclause (2). 
Am I to understand from the Minister that on every occasion that a regulation is put forward it would be put forward only to activate or to ensure the operation of sub-clause ( 1 )? Is that the basis of his remark? Is it as isolated as that? 
-Additional to subclause ( 1 )? 
-The Minister uses the word 'benefit', and of course the Opposition is concerned that something may harm a citizen 's rights. That is its concern. In the midst of those 2 arguments, far, far away from the seat of all that has happened, it is very difficult to form an opinion on that which might be worthwhile. 
What the Minister is saying may very well mean that without subclause (2) people may not be able to get the benefits in sub-clause ( 1 ). 
I should think that perhaps the Opposition ought to view it in the light of the fact that it will have the same numbers as it has now and vote for the disallowance of a regulation that is objectionable to it. If certain things come to pass it may have even more, but its position should not diminish from its present numbers to act against an objectionable regulation. 
I just said under certain circumstances. Certainly its shadow will not grow less. I must say that, as a member of this Committee, I am genuinely in doubt as to whether we are depriving some citizen in Darwin of some benefit of earlier payment or some short cut under the present Act which may benefit him. I should be very loath to oppose a provision the basis of which I understand is to safeguard citizens. It would not be the first time, of course, where over-anxious protection has harmed people. 
Well, you are wrong.  Senator Georges  has been wrong previously,  Mr Chairman,  but I will not go into that. 
I suggest that it would not be breaking faith with the Darwin people to extend the decision on this until the regulation is seen, and that is about what a failure to support this amendment would be. I suspect that it is a bit of one and a bit of the other and, unless there is some other argument which is more pertinent, I think I must support the Minister. 
It seems to me that this regulation-making power falls in a very similar category to the matter we considered in relation to altering the law concerning acquisition. There could be many instances- rather than be extravagant, I should say that there may be some or even a few instanceswhere this will be necessary to do something quickly, for reasons of convenience or to carry out some activity which may not be really at variance with the Legislative Assembly itself but is a matter related to the emergency of the redevelopment. I would suggest that the Senate could extend this decision, which it is doing, by relying on the regulation making power or by refusing to sustain a regulation. This involves nothing more than putting off the decision and particularising it. The value of a regulation making power is that it enables a plan such as this to be formulated in a particular way. Instead of giving a blanket refusal, I suggest that the Senate could give a selective refusal and would know what it is talking about, whereas at the moment we simply do not know. I think it is reasonable to extend the decision to another day when it will be warranted. I would believe and hope that the decision will not need to be taken in a negative fashion, but if it is necessary, and if the Senate sees itself as a safeguard for the developing Legislative Assembly in the Northern Territory, it can take that action. I again say that it would be selective and particular and therefore more useful and would not do the harm, unknown at this moment, that almost inevitably would be done in one corner of this administration in denying the ability to make regulations according to this demand. 
I support this action because I believe there is an emergency situation. I have spent only a day and a half in Darwin. I needed to spend only an hour and a half to formulate the general conclusion that a lot of shortcuts will have to be made if the people's convenience is to be met. Of course, the very fact that so many people have so quickly returned to Darwin means that a lot of shortcuts have been made. I consider  Senator Greenwood's  position on the same basis as I mentioned to one of his back benchers.  Senator Greenwood  voted to deny direct Senate representation for the Northern Territory, and he did so vehemently. Yesterday one of his colleagues still continued his opposition to the full national representation of the Northern Territory. It is a pretty shallow base and it is humbug for  Senator Greenwood  to prate about parliamentary democracy when he has voted, and led his Party to vote, against the inclusion of representatives of the Northern Territory in this chamber. If he had his way, right throughout the future, or for a very long time to come, there would be no senators from the Northern Territory. I am pleased to say that the Parliament was able to circumvent that attitude by a Joint Sitting. 
This is not an ordinary situation, and anyone who has been to Darwin will tell you that it is not an ordinary situation. There is another side to this matter of parliamentary democracy. If the alterations are to be made, they will be made in this place. I sincerely hope that that side of parliamentary democracy- the use of regulation making power- which will receive scrutiny in this place, and the safeguards of disallowance, if necessary, will be scrutinised by Northern Territory senators in this place.  Senator Greenwood  has done nothing but impede their impending presence here. 
I shall be very brief in my remarks. I want to say that I am going to oppose the Bill for the very reasons which  Senator Everett  said that it ought not to be opposed and they are the political considerations. I do not for one minute believe that the mood of the Premiers of Australia is really to acknowledge the national Parliament today. I think that it is altogether too divisive for the Opposition to continue its tactics of creating a division in Australia to take this one further even to the States and say that it is a matter of CommonwealthState relations. Almost every argument we hear from the Opposition in this chamber about matters such as this resolves for them into an attack upon the States. This argument has been much used even today in a debate on another matter, that is, the proposed conjunction of elections between this and the Lower House. Again we ran into the States issue. I believe, as I have said, that the Opposition has deliberately made it so and will deliberately continue to make it so as long as it is in Opposition. It will continue to destroy the healthy development of the Australian nation by the attitudes that it adopts to every one of these questions. I am not willing to further that argument by, rather uselessly in my case, supporting this Bill tonight, although I agree with the objects which are set out within it. 
I have said that the divisions within the Australian scene are very dangerous to the development of the Australian nation. They are fostered by the members of the Liberal and Country Parties in the Queensland Parliament, the New South Wales Parliament and this House. Those who sit on this side of the House cannot decide for themselves whether this House is a House of Review or a House which makes and breaks governments. We hear this argument from one  speaker  to another with each adopting a different attitude to suit his particular stance at the time. I believe that to vote for this Bill will be to further the divisions which I deplore in the Australian community. It is up to this side of the House to decide really where it is going on this national argument, to decide whether it really means what the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  said at the weekend, that is, that he is going to destroy and dismantle the Grants Commission in Australia and set up some other unnamed and unexplained device for the maintenance of the one living standard throughout this community. I believe that this Opposition is not in a fit state to vote for this legislation and I do not intend to vote for it to further - 
I do not care whether I am labelled sanctimonious or not. I am rather tired, as are so many of  Senator Baume  's supporters in New South Wales at a very high level, of the duplicity of the Opposition in this House, and for a number of reason which are rather mixed, as I have illustrated, I do not intend to vote for this legislation. 

 Senator JAMES MCCLELLAND (New South Wales- Minister for Manufacturing 
Industry)- in reply-  Senator Wright  has exhibited his unflagging, if slightly windy, devotion to consistency by flaying  Senator Everett  for his alleged inconsistency in relation to appeals to the Privy Council. I admire  Senator Wright's  devotion to consistency but would remind him of his own slightly bent record in this regard. One of the matters which has engaged this Parliament over the last couple of weeks has been of particular concern to this Senate and that is the manner of filling casual vacancies. One would have thought that a stern admirer of consistency such as  Senator Wright  would have raised his voice in support of the principle which he enunciated as long ago as 1959 as a member of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review when he went along with this proposition: 
Since proportional representation has been the system for electing senators, various State Parliaments have been called upon to make appointment to fill a casual vacancy and in each instance the States have scrupulously observed the principle which the Committee would have liked to be incorporated in the Constitution. 
The Committee recommended: 
That the Constitution be amended to provide that in the circumstances mentioned in paragraph 61 a place which becomes vacant should become vacant within the meaning of section 15. 
We have not heard from  Senator Wright  on this. Maybe he has been adverting to more serious matters but when he chooses to let the Senate have a little homily on the matter of consistency we would like to hear him in defence of the sentiments he espoused 16 years ago but about which he is curiously silent today. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: In view of the Borrie report which greatly diminishes the expectation of population growth in Australia and in view of the great resistance of public servants in Adelaide to being forcibly transferred to the new development of Monarto, will the Government review its support of the Monarto proposition and either delay the implementation of the Monarto scheme or, more desirably, cease all support of that particularly undesirable scheme in South Australia? 
I am pleased that I am in the chamber actually to see that the people who are making these statements are on the Opposition side because, if the statements that we have heard had been heard by one over the radio and one had not recognised the voices as coming from certain individuals, one would imagine that it was members of the Labor Party making a number of the statements which have come from the Opposition side. In leading in this debate,  Senator Durack  said: 'We would have done things differently. The Liberal and Country Parties would have done things differently'. One is justified therefore in asking the question: Who originated this legislation? Who originated the question that we are now discussing? Of course it was a Prime Minister of another time,  Mr John  Gorton. He first brought this subject into being. It was discussed in State Cabinet rooms around Australia in relation to the question of the supremacy of the State or the Commonwealth in off-shore areas. 
I am not talking about the particular Bill. We are talking about the subject matter which first brought up this question. It was brought up in the time of the Liberal-Country Party Government. That is when this question of who had supremacy in these areas began, and that is the question which we are now discussing. 
The second thing that I heard this evening was  Senator Scott  warning the people that there might be another joint sitting. Who in this Parliament will cause a joint sitting? Will it be the Government? Will the Government suddenly say to the Opposition: 'We have had so much frustration- as we have had with this Bill- that we will have another double dissolution'? We know what will be the only answer to the question of who will cause a double dissolution this year. If there is to be one, it will be because the Opposition side of the chamber has denied Supply once again, as it did last year. That is the only reason that there will be a double dissolution in 1975. So the decision as to whether or not there will be a double dissolution will rest with  Senator Scott  who warned the rest of Australia that in some strange fashion there might be a joint sitting. If he does not want one he can stop one. He can say tonight if he wants to that there will not be one. He has only to rise to his feet and say: 'I will not support any denial of Supply'. If he is so concerned then he still has time tonight during the broadcast of proceedings which he used to warn Australia to get up and say that he will use his influence to prevent what he fears so much. 
I heard  Senator Missen  interjecting that the Government is getting ready for a double dissolution. It was said in a complaining sort of tone that the Government was bringing this Bill in as the basis for a double dissolution. We ask again: Who will cause a double dissolution? Who can prevent it?  Senator Missen  can rise in his place tonight and say that there will not be a double dissolution. Again, the decision rests with him. 

 -If Senator Webster is going to bring up the argument that the Opposition did not deny Supply last year and did not cause an election, it is no wonder his side of the House is turning this debate completely upside down.  Senator Greenwood  can laugh at the fun of it all. Perhaps he too can get up and say that his Party did not deny Supply. Who in Australia will believe that? Who will believe that technicality which he raises? It is no wonder that the backers of the Liberal and Country Parties in Australia are so dismayed at their representatives in this House. I can say from experience that this year they are extremely dismayed at the tactics that the Opposition has used to frustrate government in Australia because legislation, although it may be good, happens to be brought in by a Labor Government and therefore cannot be supported. This Bill is one such piece of legislation. 
Opposition senators have been saying tonight that it is a tragedy for Australia that mineral exploration has not been proceeding at a faster pace. But what will the denial of this legislation do should the High Court of Australia find that the Commonwealth has supremacy in the areas we are discussing? It will mean that the Commonwealth will then not be able to proceed until the Government comes back and gets this legislation through the Houses of Parliament because it will have been denied the essential mechanics for the development of minerals off-shore. It will not be able to proceed with the allocation of leases and the development and exploitation of off-shore mineral resources. We heard honourable senators on the Opposition side of this chamber lament the lack of co-operative federalism. I must say that  Senator Georges  raised that subject very effectively when he referred to the Queensland Premier refusing to co-operate in many details with the Commonwealth, one of which I suppose will be the Lands Commission. The Queensland Premier will be quite happy to have land in his capital city at a higher price than no doubt it will be in other capital cities because he will not accept Government assistance to facilitate the putting on the market of great areas of land. Also, as  Senator Georges  has said, the Premier when overseas said to Japan: 'You cannot have coal unless you buy our beef. This is the man apparently for whom the Opposition would deny this legislation. It is for that sort of man that the Opposition tonight would refuse to pass the essential part of the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill which it knocked down when it went before this House in 1973, when  Senator Greenwood  said that, firstly - 
I did not quite catch that interjection. 
-Senator Greenwood said in 1973 that 'there are therefore 2 fundamentals which have to be linked with any resolution of this problem: firstly, to know what the limits of authority are'- that is tremendously important for we do not want to have a vacuum in which no one has the responsibility- 'and, secondly, when we do know where the authority lies'- I suggest he would have been referring there to the matter which is now before the High Court- 'we must have it worked out cooperatively with whatever regime we have in the off-shore waters'. In a practical sense, forgetting the States' rights issue as an overriding one here- I suggest that the development of Australia's off-shore minerals is of greater importance than the issue of the States' rights at this time after so many years of dissension about that matter have gone by- the subject really to be discussed tonight is whether the Commonwealth is to have the mechanics of making the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill operate if the High Court should find in its favour. That, I believe, is the discussion we have before us. What the Opposition is saying is: 'No. The Commonwealth shall not have the mechanics to make that legislation operative if it is given the authority as a result of the present challenge'. Australia will be the loser, as Australia has been the loser in so many things that the Opposition has defeated simply because legislation is brought in by a Labor Government. 
This I deplore. People should read very carefully the speeches which have been made here tonight by the Opposition to see really who is making them and to see how topsy-turvy have been the arguments made by Liberal and Country Party senators who lament the development of mineral search and exploitation in Australia and yet in one blow tonight will strike at the very development of minerals and the exploitation of minerals in Australia. This Bill is not worth a lot of debate because it is a second run, but for the Opposition to charge the Government that there is some danger in a joint sitting is the height of hypocrisy. I, too, would warn about the dangers of a joint sitting. The Liberal and Country Parties in Australia and their backers are looking right down the barrel of a joint sitting. I suppose that 2 months ago they and their supporters would have said that they could not lose an election caused by a double dissolution. They cannot say that today because of their actions and because of  Mr Lewis  in New South Wales, a friend of  Senator Young. 
We will have  Senator Young  on in South Australia about who is helping the socialists because, now that  Senator Young  has mentioned it, we can ask Australia: Why is it that Australia is now presented with Medibank? Why is it that Australia is now presented with a Petroleum and Minerals Authority? The answer simply is that last year the Liberal and Country Party forced the joint dissolution of the 2 Houses. They lost the election and, incidentally, would not accept the verdict. As a result of them forcing an election when they ought not to have done so they were taken to a Joint Sitting by the Labor Party and all those things which their supporters detested so much came into being. The Liberal and Country Parties, with  Senator Young  bearing full responsibility for it, gave the power to the socialists he now interjects about.  His  leader is now stomping around Australian asking his supporters publicly to support another double dissolution.  Senator Jessop  in the Senate the other day asked me to join his Party in forcing this Government to the people again. It is on again;  Mr Snedden  says it publicly and  Senator Jessop  asks for support in the Senate. They are doing this without any certainty of winning an election. I say as a Liberal that I am dismayed that these people, with their supporters and their inherent political beliefs, will take their risks and very much the risks to their future in Australia by threatening to send the Government to the people again without knowing they will win. That is the tactics of the matter without the principle. We will see whether Opposition members will follow their Leader who has been damned by nearly every newspaper leader writer in Australia. Even today, their Leader lost the 'Sydney Morning Herald '. This is the style of politics that we have surrounding the legislation before us and the Sydney Morning Herald' brought that out in part of its leader article this morning. The article referred to the disaster for  Mr Snedden  last week at the hands of the Prime Minister being bad enough. It said that this week he has again started on the wrong foot by making a statement of truly astonishing political ineptitude to the effect that a Liberal-Country Party Government would dismantle all except a few of the present Labor Government's policies. The article goes on to say: 
It is uncomfortably reminiscent of the Luddites of the early nineteenth century, who disliked the Industrial Revolution so much that they set about destroying as much of the hated new machinery as they could. In the late twentieth century, voters are surely entitled to look for a rather more subtle approach. 
It goes on to say that that is not intelligent or sensible and that generalised, ^discriminating com.minations command little respect. That is the Leader that some of these honourable senators are attempting to follow apparently into the jaws of another double dissolution and to the extent of looking down the barrel of a second joint sitting in the history of the Australian Parliament. They ask for support to knock out legislation that Australia vitally needs to settle a question that has been far too long bedevilling the State and Federal issue. All I can say is that I am extremely sorry that the Opposition has turned the argument upside down and charged the Government with something of which they themselves are guilty. 
Since the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill 1974 (No. 2) 1975 was last discussed in this House I have been able to canvass a wide section of employers in this community and I have found very great support for the passage of this measure. I have also tested public opinion by publishing an article on this subject in which I suggested that a good deal of social and industrial justice would be achieved if we could insert into this type of legislation a requirement for voting along the lines of parliamentary procedures. I suggested that voting should be compulsory and secret and that it should in that way reflect truly the view of those unionists who are involved in the decisions which will be made under this legislation. There was widespread support by mail and by personal contact for the suggestion I made in the article. Of course it was not new, but at least it is the sole attempt in this chamber to do something along those lines to this legislation. I have been pleased since to notice that  Mr Laurie  Short has gone further and suggested some sort of triennial, formally fixed elections for the election of union officials. No doubt that suggestion has merit, although one could think of defects involved in being so formal in relation to fixing times at particular periods for such elections. 
I am disappointed to find that this very widespread support among those who are Australia's very large employers and yet to find that the Opposition has advanced this argument not one whit further. We really will never make any progress if those who hold the Senate as a House of review take this attitude every time a Bill comes before it in the similarity in which Bills do. Obviously no progress can be made if those who constitute the majority say that they want the Bill but as it is not in the form in which they want it they will reject it. That, I suppose, is a fair attitude to take on the first presentation of a Bill, but surely it cannot be a fair attitude to take on succeeding presentations of the same legislation. In other words, the Opposition, if it does not agree with the important aspects of the Bill, should set about putting it in order as it believes it ought to be. It is not good enough for members of the Opposition to say that they simply believe in the principle but the details do not suit them, when surely they have the wit and capacity to put the legislation in the form in which it does suit them. To say that they do not have the capacity, of course, is to deny that they should govern. Members of the Opposition hope at some stage in the future to find themselves in Government. They would then have to have the answer. It would be far more to their credit if they had the answer now. 
Surely there has been time since the previous presentation of the Bill for  Senator Greenwood  and others to devise policies which will put this Bill into the frame in which they could support it. Do they deny that they have had that time? Do they have no idea of detail? Do they not know? If they do know, why are they hiding their views? What is the reason why they support the principle but cannot bring forth the details? Do they not have enough friends in the industrial field to produce the help they require? What is the blockage? It is a very vital question. I think  Senator Scott  said that there was some urgency about industrial relations. Surely we would all acknowledge that. The matter of instituting democratic elections to make decisions about industrial matters will take some time to establish. It will take years for the effects to filter through from the power that is held in this way and based in this fashion. So we ought to be busy about it as soon as possible. 
I must say that I am puzzled to the extreme to find that we on this side oppose the principle but do not have the wit to supply the detail. I suppose the answer could be, as I said in the first instance, that it is the duty of the Government to govern, but surely not on the second or third presentation, whatever it has been, in this House. I return to the subject. If the Senate is in any way a House of review it has a responsibility in this direction and it has a responsibility to those very large employers who find themselves transfixed by the barbs and arrows of industrial disruption, many of which emanate from the discord created by having too many unions in Australia. 
The men who must face up to this issue in practice want this legislation. They do not go as far in wanting an alteration to it as I would like to see or, obviously, as far as the unnamed alterations that the Opposition in general would like to have. I have in my possession that poor, pathetic amendment I had last year that cannot see the light of day and cannot be argued in detail because this side will deny the Bill a second reading and deny all possibility of altering it and fashioning it as a Liberal ethic would have it fashioned. I again refer in passing to the procedures. Surely we can ask that the people who must make the decisions about amalagmations should do so on a compulsory basis, as we must do at elections of Australian parliaments, and on a secret basis, as we now enjoy in the ballot box for Australian parliaments, and in this case they could be made by postal ballot. 
The Opposition denies these things. To deny even a discussion about putting them into the Bill is to deny any genuine interest in it. Too many things are said loosely in verbal form in politics. Politicians and parties will have to stand by the results of their actions. If the Opposition is simply going to negate this Bill without trying to insert the details that it is supposed to want in it, I must assume, that it is again the principle. Although  Senator Greenwood  may say in this House that he is for it, I must assume that he is not. What else can one assume when the people who back him politically want it? I can say that with utmost certainty. What else can one assume when he says that he wants it but denies it passage and denies a discussion during the second reading, even though he has the safeguard of turning it out at the third reading, as properly should apply in the parliamentary system, 
I regret that we will not get to discuss that vital issue in the community of secret ballots and the involvement of all union members in the decisions they make. I again say that this is a perfect opportunity to insert into this Bill certain principles without disrupting the general conduct of industrial relations in Australia. It is a magnificent opportunity to put something into a Bill the provisions of which have not been used very much in the past and which are not causing genuine disruption. If the Government will not accept it, it is then its responsibility; it is not the responsibility of this side. But as the Opposition intends to proceed, it will be this side's responsibility. When I talk to major employers in Australia again I will again have to say that we are prevented from bringing this Bill into effect and that we are preventing the Government from introducing parliamentary type disciplines into union elections and decisions because our side will not have them discussed. It will not allow the Bill to proceed to a point when we could go ahead with that sort of insertion. 
I only voice my protest. I will vote for the Bill on the basis that, should it proceed past the second reading, I will very avidly present a case for amendment to insert these parliamentary principles. If they are not inserted I will vote against the Bill at the third reading. I want to make my support of the Bill quite clear in this House so that it will not be misconstrued, but I regret that one must leave the House and the decision that is apparently to be made knowing that the practical result of the action of the Opposition is that it does not support further amalgamation of unions and having amalgamations facilitated in this way. 
It would not be an effective discussion. It cannot be effective in that sense. One can deal again with technical matters. What I am saying to  Senator Wright  is that if he votes against the second reading he is precluding the alteration of the Bill in this fashion. He knows that. I think that is a great pity when so many people in Australian want it. I suggest to  Senator Wright  that if he took a vote of the Australian public he would find that there is overwhelming support, as I have found in the community, for these types of disciplines. 
I am sorry that  Senator Wright  was apparently asleep when I was going through my explanation, but I gave him a full explanation of my attitude and I invite him to read it later. I also invite  Senator Wright  not to deny the support of principles in which his side of politics believe fervently and in which large employers across this nation believe fervently and to deny this Bill which they urgently want to help them in their part in making industrial relations a happier field in Australia. 
It is pleasing to see that on this occasion the Opposition will support the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill which will widen the ambit and operation of the Australian Industry Development Corporation. It is very fitting that it should do so on a day when a  former  Prime Minister,  Mr John  Gorton, who took such a hand in forming the Corporation has announced that he will not be coming back to this Parliament after the next election.  Mr Gorton  deserves a great deal of credit for the initiative which he took in this matter. I am very pleased that the Senate has seen fit to extend the work of the AIDC in this way. There are many examples in Australia, particularly in a smaller fashion in the States' sphere, which show the amount of help which can be given by statutory bodies to private industry in the community. 
I trust that the additional authority given to the AIDC will help private industry in Australia at a time when it distinctly needs that help and when entrepreneurs are finding it extremely difficult to maintain a flow of capital to their enterprises. Any delays which have been caused have only delayed the effect of the legislation and have caused harm to a number of industries in Australia. Obviously only a needless delay has taken place since the vote was taken here last year. 
For my pan, I do not want to expand the argument which was given then, nor do I want to speak for any length of time this evening. However, I cannot bring myself to vote for the National Investment Fund Bill. That is not because I see any antagonism to the establishment of that fund in the sense that it is perhaps something which the Government could use in a socialistic fashion. I am not going to say that my opposition to the National Investment Fund is because I do not trust the Government. However, I believe that if it is formed it will take the 
AIDC away from its original and essential purpose which is to help Australian industry develop with overseas loan money as a replacement for  overseas  equity. I have not antagonism to the general flow of funds into Australia by way of capital if those funds cannot be replaced by capital gathered by Australians and if they come into this country in a minority shareholding. Obviously, unless we take some determined effort to make sure that we replace equity by loan funds we will not be doing enough to enhance the percentage of Australian ownership in Australian industries. 
I believe that the AIDC should be made to concentrate in this area which is so valuable in ensuring that Australian industry in a greater fashion in the future more than in the past remains in Australian hands. The substance of Australian capital gathered through the National Investment Fund is a neat companion operation and perhaps idealistically goes hand in hand with the operations of the AIDC, but I believe that it does or it could divert the National Investment Fund from its original and essential purpose. 
I am objecting to it in this fashion for the reasons I have just given. There is now an enormous search in the Australian market for funds. The current interest rates will demonstrate to  Senator Georges  the intensity of that effort to collect funds in Australia. The AIDC clearly should maintain its search for funds essentially overseas to make sure that it operates in that very sensitive and essential area. With those remarks, I express my support for the major Bill; but, unfortunately and without prejudice, I am unable to support the Bill to establish a National Investment Fund. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  I call  Senator Guilfoyle.  As she is not rising, I call  Senator Cotton. 

 - Mr President, I support your motion for the adjournment of the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the South Australian Premier's statement today that the proposal to build the city of Monarto will proceed, and the rejection last night by a meeting of public servants, called by the Public Service Association in Adelaide, of the South Australian Government's proposal to conscript them to Monarto, will the Leader of the Government give an unqualified assurance that the reference to Commonwealth Government departments on page 20 of the most recent report of the Monarto Development Commission will not result in a similar conscription of Commonwealth public servants? If the Australian Government adopts the same hard line as its South Australian counterpart, which departments will be subjected to duress to enforce their employees ' relocation? 
I support the Bill and the proposed amendments. I particularly want to say how pleased I am that the amendments are in their present form because of the value of this industry in South Australia and the impossibility of the Bill, as first introduced, fulfilling a satisfactory test of fairness to the Australian producers. I want to emphasise also the need to safeguard South Australia's future which, under present population predictions in relation to growth, is bleak indeed. The Borrie report placed South Australia at the very bottom of the rate of percentage increase in population in Australia. South Australia has to be particularly careful to safeguard the industries it has because at this time it is getting very few new ones. In fact there has been a marked difference in the introduction into South Australia of new industries. By default or by design South Australia has become a nongrowth State so far as new industries are concerned. 
I particularly welcome the amendments which will safeguard a valuable industry in South Australia, one of the most efficient in this country and one which has produced a brand name in relation to white goods which is respected everywhere in Australia. It is obvious that the Australian market for compressors is insufficient to produce the economies which apply overseas. Yet it is strange that the Government's intention in the original Bill to have one compressor producer in Australia was to place at least one other user of those compressors at a price disadvantage in relation to its own costs of production, even on a smaller scale. So the amendment is certainly justified in equity so far as South Australia is concerned, and it will maintain an important industry in our State. The delay has apparently caused an increase in the allocation of 62 1/2 per cent over the first $2m. I suppose that can be welcomed by the industry itself. The Bill as it was first introduced appeared to infringe the Commonwealth Constitution, as has already been mentioned. All in all I nave much pleasure in supporting the Bill and the amendment. 
I believe it is a very sensible compromise that the matters which were objected to previously in the generality are now included in specific terms in a schedule. This seems to make a very tidy Bill and a very positive proposal of the 5 items of agreement which have been concluded with other countries. I do not share the fear that some speakers seem to have that Australia may be over-committing itself. Quite frankly, there is very little prospect of enforcing these agreements against the will of a country which is party to the agreement. I believe that the method which the United States authorities are now using against Australia in refusing to allow kangaroo products into that country- the matter of trading in products from endangered or other species- is about the only means of enforcement, apart from political or general trading sanctions. Therefore, it seems to me that we are putting our conscience on the line and saying: 'By agreeing in this way we will look responsibly at the wildlife which is specifically mentioned and we will take steps to preserve it in certain ways '. 
The first treaty referred to in the Schedule relates to the international agreement on wetlands. I am told that the obligation under this treaty which Australia will be adopting is to provide one major wetland and to maintain it in perpetuity; if the country concerned varies that wetland it must provide another as a substitute. In other words, under the first agreement we are committed to the provision and maintenance of one extensive wetland in Australia which will provide a habitat for all the wildlife that may be representative of Australia. I am told that the second treaty extends to the high seas the prohibition on sealing which now applies to the Antarctic. There is some doubt that the present agreement on cessation of sealing in the Antarctic would apply. So it is only an extension of an already internationally agreed prohibition on sealing in Antarctica. The third treaty deals with the point which I think  Senator Carrick  made about matters which could be of nature and man combined. Upon inquiry I was told that it could include things such as the pyramids of Egypt and the Albert Park in the Congo. These 2 examples were given to me. The obligation is by nomination of the government only. 
The fourth treaty lists the endangered species. There may be a lot of senators in this place who would consider themselves subject to this agreement on endangered species. 
As  Senator Missen  said, one does not get much protection. Whether or not people are endangered in the near future will be a matter of actions taken in this place. 
The fifth treaty deals with the migration of common species. They could and must be regarded as a common resource of the countries through which they move. I see the motion as a very sensible compromise. I am sure the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  is aware of all these details and many more which are the subject of the amendments referred to in the motion which he so avidly moved. I add my support to the general support for the amendments. 
I do not intend to support the motion, but I must say that I have some sympathy with the people who moved it. I believe that last year the Senate was right in taking the decision to try to give an example to the rest of Australia. It was an example which, unfortunately, was ignored by State Parliaments. I think subsequent to the deferral of the acceptance of the recommendation of the Remuneration Tribunal members of the Parliaments of Western Australia and Queensland voted themselves very handsome increases in salary.  Mr President,  if you read this morning's newspapers you will find it reported that the Premier of New South Wales will receive a higher salary than the Prime Minister of Australia even after the acceptance of this most recent determination. If that is the case it means that State Parliaments are the pace-setters now in salary increases for parliamentarians in Australia. There are far more State parliamentarians than there are Federal parliamentarians. Therefore the example given by the Senate has been overwhelmingly ignored by State parliaments. It does no purpose at all not to accept this determination and to create an even widening disparity between what ought to be the emolument of Federal members of Parliament and what they are actually getting. Rejection could create a most difficult time in the future when adjustment would have to be made for severe and very real economic reasons. I would like to have seen a deferral for 12 months but I cannot support the move now because of the reasons given. 
I must say I am rather interested in  Senator Withers'  description of how the determination was presented again. All week I have been wondering why it was presented now. I know that last year I studied the notice paper pretty diligently. Yet the Senate was able to pass the request to the Tribunal to report again without my knowledge. I know that I am the only one in my Party here. I assure  Senator Withers  that I look at the notice paper quickly. Certainly he, or whoever was responsible for the request, was pretty smart about it, not only in hiding it from the media of Australia but also from at least one politician in this chamber. With some regret that the deferral is not for 12 months I must say that I substantially agree with the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt)  and with  Senator Withers  in this matter. 
In supporting the Bill I suppose I must agree with  Senator Greenwood  's remarks in the sense that all of us are concerned about Australia's security. I wish to make one reference in this regard. I looked up the word 'security' and I found that it has several meanings. One of them is that it is the quality or state of being secure. It is also freedom from anxiety and care. One of the problems in Australia today is the uncertainty which  Senator Greenwood  's own political Leader is causing in this community. Under the heading of  Senator Greenwood's  amendment I would like to develop briefly the theme of the tremendous uncertainty which lies over Australia and which of course is a threat to its security in another direction. 
In recent days and weeks there have been so many conflicting statements from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  concerning the future conduct of politics in Australia that Australians are finding some revulsion at the activities in the national Parliament because they can see no real attempt to govern Australia. As many newspaper leader writers have put it, they see simply an attempt by the Opposition to use its power at the proper and judicious time which will give it ascent to government in Australia rather than providing the leadership that this country desires. Under the heading of  Senator Greenwood's  amendment I want to refer particularly to the recent statements on Medibank and the proposals which have been put forward and then denied concerning a possible election upon the issue. In recent times  Mr Anthony  has proposed that, if the Government should include in a general Supply Bill an appropriation of money for the Medibank scheme, it is inevitable that the Senate will reject that Bill. This has led to very strong conjecture that we will have an election possibly in June and certainly no later than July. The Leader of the Opposition has been questioned very directly about this proposition, which was put forward by the Leader of the Country Party, as to where his Party stands in relation to a statement that was made apparently on the general behalf of the Opposition. 
Yesterday the Leader of the Opposition conducted a Press conference at which he was questioned very deeply about this matter as to whether his party would automatically proceed along the lines recommended by  Mr Anthony  in recent days. Because of  Senator Greenwood's  concern for security, he ought to read the transcript of statements made by his Leader yesterday to the Press of Australia, and therefore to the public of Australia, on one of the greatest matters affecting its security.  Mr Snedden  started by saying: 
Everyone ready. ... All bets placed. . . . Pull up the ladder. . . . Everyone set. . . . 
He then launched into an attack on the Medibank scheme, much of which I would agree with as an assessment of that scheme. Of course, that is not the point that I make in this debate. I do not wish to reopen the question of Medibank. I wish to take further the question of Australia 's security regarding any guarantee of continuity of government.  Mr Snedden  was asked: 
Over the weekend,  Mr Anthony  said there would be an earlier Federal election over Medibank. He said there was no way in the world that the Opposition Senators would not reject Bills appropriating money to the scheme. 

 Mr Snedden said: 
I think you ought to get your terms right.  Mr Anthony  did not say that, as I have been informed.  Mr Anthony  said that the senators had a very great opposition to the national health scheme. He then went on to talk about if supply for Medibank was included in the Supply Bills, that the Senators were more likely to vote against it. Now, that is certainly the fact. The Opposition parties are determined to fight national health scheme for the reasons I have just given. 
He was asked: 
He said there was no way in the world, quote unquote, that the Federal Opposition was going to pass a Bill that would finance the program. If the financing arrangements for the Medibank is the Supply Bill in May will the Opposition . . . 
At this point  Mr Snedden  said: 
When we see the Supply Bill we will make our decision about it. 
He was then asked: 
When  Mr Anthony  was speaking over the weekend he committed the Opposition Party to reject Supply, if those Bills contained the funds for Medibank.  Mr Anthony  said Once they have fought the appropriation in Parliament there is no way in the world that the Opposition is going to allow that to go through and then you will compel the Government to take the issue to the people. Now do you agree that this commitment made by . . . 
At that point  Mr Snedden  broke in and said: 
It was not a commitment made by  Mr Anthony.  The matter has not been considered by the Party in the sense that it must be considered, and that is when it is before it, a Supply Bill before it. 
He was then asked: 
There is no difference between you and  Mr Anthony  on this point? 
He answered: 
What I am saying is that  Mr Anthony  is making an assumption that we will continue to oppose Medibank, and National Health Scheme and we will, he was absolutely correct in that. He was casting his mind ahead to a point where there will be a Supply Bill in the Parliament which would contain an appropriation, supply for next year for the National Health Scheme, and he was making an assumption of the fate of it. What I am saying is that the assumption is reasonably based but no decision will be taken until the Supply Bill is before the Parliament. 
The next question was: 
Would you say that it is a speculative assumption at this stage? 
He said: 
What? 
The questioner said: 
A speculation on  Mr Anthony  's part, pure speculation. 

 Mr Snedden replied: 
Well, you can apply whatever term you like to it. I have stated what the position is. You can apply as you will your interpretation. 
Another question was put: 
Would you say,  Mr Snedden,  that you agree with  Mr Anthony's  assumption? 
After a long meandering reply,  Mr Snedden  ended the reply with this: 

 Mr Anthony knowing that because it is a decision of both parties, then carried the matter further as to what would happen in the event of the Supply Bill coming before the Parties. Now I have told you that we will take the decision on the Supply Bill when it arrives. 
The next question was: 
Does that mean that you agree with  Mr Anthony? 
The answer was: 
I have told you what I have stated. 
There is another page or so of this most ambiguous, unintelligible garbage. Then  Mr Snedden  was asked: 
When do you think the election will be? 
He replied: 
When do you think so? 
Here is the person who holds himself out as the responsible, alternative Prime Minister of Australia answering in that fashion when his coleader in the Opposition coalition is going around the country and saying that there is no way in the world that the Senate will accept a Supply Bill which contains funds for Medibank.  His  answer is: 
When do you think so? 
Another question was: 
Do you think it was wise of  Mr Anthony  to make this statement in anticipation of your Party's . . . 
The answer was: 

 Mr Anthony has made a statement. I have explained to you the background of the statement and  Mr Anthony  has made it. Now it doesn't help in any way for a question like that . . . 

 Mr Snedden said: 
I had long discussions with  Mr Anthony  and with other shadow Ministers - 
Very shadowy, I would say -   . . and last week there was at least a couple of discussions.  Mr Anthony  did not consult me in any detail about what he was going to say over the weekend. 
I know that it embarrasses honourable senators on this side, just as it embarrasses me. I join with  Senator Greenwood  in expressing concern for Australia's security under this type of pseudo leadership. 
-Senator Greenwood can decide who is helping Labor. I  will have my say. There is more of this transcript. I suppose members of the Opposition in this chamber are right to show that they do not want to hear it. I do not like it. It only repeats itself page after page. It has been made public and public comment has been made on it. I will come to the public comment in a minute.  Mr Snedden  was then asked: 
Given the state of the economy and the state of the Government why do you think the Opposition popularity rating has fallen 7 per cent and why do you think your own popularity rating as a leader has fallen 4 or S per cent? 
His answer was: 
I have good thoughts about it but I don't think it will help. The fact is that the Labor Party were at the very bottom of the trough. 
He goes on along that line. All the thoughts and ramblings of the alternative Prime Minister of Australia are there. Every citizen of this country is faced with this conundrum: Will there be an election by July? No one knows. Apparently  Mr Snedden  does not know. He will not say to the Australian community: 'We are definitely going to vote out the appropriation in this House'. He will not say to the Australian community: 'We will not vote out the appropriation in this House '. He has said to the Australian community that the terms of office for a government go from 6 months to 6 months. That is the security he has given Australia and that is the security which apparently  Senator Greenwood  supports. But it is not a matter which members of the Australian public like. Much comment has been made. It is coming to a head in a very realistic fashion when the advice has been given to the Liberal Party to shut up or put up. They are some of the things that are being said. The heading in today's 'Australian Financial Review' is: 'Snedden in Wake of Anthony as Medibank Issue Clouds Further'. I have just given the reason why the issue is clouded. The article is written by a prominent reporter on the basis of  Mr Snedden  's remarks yesterday, to which I have just referred, and  Mr Anthony's  remarks prior to  Mr Snedden  's remarks. The issue for Australians is that they do not know what health scheme they will have, they do not know whether they will have an election and they do not know who will lead the Liberal Party to any supposed election. 
One of the great questions across Australia is how long  Mr Snedden  will retain his job. Everyone knows he is pushing for an election to save it. Everyone knows that  Mr Anthony  is pushing for an election to put off a redistribution of boundaries in the Australian scene. That is common knowledge. The editorial in the 'Australian Financial Review' ends with these words: 
But it has been clear since last May that the non-Labor parties have devoted all their attention to gauging when to use their tactical position in the Senate to force the Governmen to the polls. Such an attitude will inevitably reap a bitter harvest for the non-Labor ranks in the future. 
That is an illustration of why the Opposition has been so lax in policy matters. I refer in passing to the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill which was dealt with by the Senate a few days ago. Members of the Opposition said 4 months ago when the Bill was first introduced that they did not have time to produce a policy and so they defeated the Bill. Four months later- a few days ago- they did the same thing. They had a 4- months' intervening period to produce a policy. They have not produced one. They have devoted all their energy, as the editorial very correctly interpreted, to gauging when they should use their upper House power. This ambiguity and this search for use of upper House power has led to a ridiculous situation. The Opposition is so ambiguous that it starts to defend itself and its misstatements. It is not only confusing to the public but also it is confusing to itself and so it is now beginning to spend so much valuable Opposition time in defending itself. 
I notice today that  Mr Anthony  had a letter placed in the 'Australian Financial Review' saying that he had not threatened an election. The letter is headed 'Medibank denial'.  Mr Anthony  wrote: 
Your article headed 'Doug Anthony and Medibank' is based on a misunderstanding of what I have said on this subject. ... No words attributed to me in that report in any way support your claim that lam trying to precipitate an early election over Medibank, or I am threatening people over this issue. 
He goes on in that vein and writes: 
My point is that if the Government adopted this ruse in an effort to secure funds for Medibank, it would do so knowing that it was embarking on a course which almost inevitably would lead to the rejection of Supply. 
He is not threatening an election; he is just saying that if the Medibank funds are included in the Bill it will be rejected. But he is not threatening an election; not at all. The fact is that the Opposition parties forced an election which created the ensuing Joint Sitting which gave the Australian Labor Party the full endorsement of its health plans. The Opposition then denied the Government the right to fund the scheme through a taxation levy and now it is saying that it will not get funds through the Supply Bill. So the Opposition denies the result of the election and the Joint Sitting it created and takes to the absurd scene and length this denial of funds. 
-Senator Townley ought to know better than to try to distract from the central theme of an argument. If the honourable senator wants to examine his own position I suggest he reads his words later. The point is that the Opposition is threatening in words through  Mr Anthony  to precipitate an election on the Australian people which the public does not want about a scheme which the Opposition does not then want to make the central theme of the election. The Opposition has already said that Medibank, whilst it would be a major part of the election, would not be the central theme. 
It might sound sensible to  Senator Townley  and it might illustrate why I did not continue replying to his earlier interjection. He has made his own reasons for his own causes. I am saying that  Mr Anthony  definitely is threatening the Australian people with an election.  Mr Snedden  desperately is trying not to agree with him, at the same time leaving his options open in the event that he can persuade his colleagues and members in this House to deny Supply. This position is providing for Australia one of the most worrying times in relation to its Government that it has seen for very many years. 
This country has no stability of government, not only because Labor is in government and has many things in its policies with which I do not agree, but also because no continuity of government is lying before it. As I have said before, it is up to the Opposition to clarify the procedure and stop threatening and stop dividing itself in the process. The Government will not be any stronger because of the weakness of the Opposition. One of the rules of parliamentary conduct is that a weak Opposition brings about a weak Government, and we certainly have one of the weakest Oppositions that we have had for many years in the Federal scene. This conduct which I refer to today is only taking to an absurd length the weaknesses of our side of politics. I ask honourable senators to go back to their Party and to tell their Leader to make himself quite clear in his statements to the Australian people, to stop using the absurd phrases that he used yesterday and to say quite clearly to the Australian public what he is going to do and what he recommends about these issues. Only then will he begin to earn the respect of the public which is responding so far in the negative as shown through the latest opinion poll. 
Having said that I shall now refer to a vote of the Appropriation Bill under the Department of 
Urban and Regional Development. I refer to the proposed development in South Australia known as Monarto. I asked a question on Tuesday about the State Government's intention to conscript South Australian public servants to that city to provide the nucleus of population for it; in other words, to provide the population excuse for the project as it now stands. The Government obviously could look to very few private citizens to become the initial residents of the Monarto development. It has relied heavily on its planning to force South Australian public servants in Adelaide or wherever they might be- but particularly from 3 State Government departments in Adelaide- to go to Monarto. The Minister for Development in South Australia,  Mr Broomhill,  made a statement recently in the State Parliament which had alarming implications for Australian Government public servants as well. In a reply in the House of Assembly to a question on notice on the subject of Commonwealth public servants going to Monarto and whether the number would be 1 500 the Minister replied: 
No official examination has been made of the Australian Government's operations in Adelaide in this connection. . . . The Australian Government has not given a firm commitment to relocate Australian public servants at Monarto, but it is reasonably expected after the matter has been officially examined that such a commitment will be given. 
That was the basis of the question I asked of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt)  on Tuesday. I am pleased that although his answer was not definite- I appreciate that it could not have been definite because the responsibility is not his alone but also that of his colleagues- it certainly came down on the side of not conscripting Commonwealth public servants in Adelaide to go to Monarto. But I do refer the attention of the Ministers in the chamber at the moment to the first annual report of the Monarto Development Commission on this subject. Reference was made in that report to the very subject of Commonwealth public servants going to Monarto. On page 20 of that very well produced, futuristic and in some ways misrepresentative booklet the following statement appears: 
The possibility of a number of Commonwealth Government Departmental activities moving to Monarto is being investigated. 
Obviously that was an early statement which was a basis for the State Minister's further rather optimistic referral to what he hoped would be a shift by Commonwealth departments to that proposed city. 
Great concern has been expressed in Adelaide about this development. On Wednesday of this week- yesterday- there was a report in the Advertiser' of a meeting on Tuesday evening in Adelaide at which some hundreds of members of the Public Service Association of South Australia gathered to discuss the demand of the State Premier that they go to Monarto or no longer hold their jobs- in other words, that they either shift or else have no job in the Public Service. That was regarded by them- very rightly- as a form of conscription by the State Government. The report states: 
Members of the Public Service Association of South Australia decided last night that no public servant should be compelled to transfer to Monarto. 
The decision was a rejection of the attitude of the Premier, who said a week ago that public servants who refused to go to Monarto would lose their jobs. 
The following resolution was adopted: 
This meeting of members of the Public Service Association fully endorses the Association's policies that no member shall be relocated to work at Monarto against his will and that no member who declines to be relocated shall be discriminated against in any way. 
We believe that the vast majority of members employed in the three relocating departments do not desire to either work and/or live at Monarto. 
It is our view that the provision of realistic relocation conditions by the Government will not alter that situation markedly. 
We therefore call upon the Association to oppose the relocation of these three departments at Monarto as presently proposed and to request the Government to reconsider its decision to do so. 
That expresses in concise terms the official view of the Public Service Association, which, of course, is based on its members' attendance at that meeting on Tuesday night. It also raises the much wider question of whether the Monarto project should proceed. I believe that the Monarto project should be stopped at this time, that it should not proceed now and that the costly structure of administration which is being built up for this proposal at this moment should be dismantled. There are 2 compelling reasons why. The first one I shall mention is, of course, not the greater. I listened to  Senator Cotton  speak on these Appropriation Bills yesterday and I could not agree more with what he said concerning the financial dangers confronting this country and the enormous impact that is going to be felt in the ensuing months as a result of the use by the Government of a huge deficit to bolster its administrative proposals and its revitalisation of some sections of the commercial and industrial community. We are going to pay a very great price for that deficit in the form of inflation and other effects in the ensuing several months and possibly for several years to come. There is a desperate need for the Government to reduce its expenditure wherever it can in a way which, of course, does not react directly and adversely against the general employment level in the community. It is suffering as a government from the very rapid moves it has made in the last 2 years to transfer from the private sector to the public sector. The attempts which must be made now to transfer back in relative terms from the public sector to the private sector are creating the strains and, of course, driving the deficit to unheard of proportions. One of the economies that the Government can make is in the field of the development of Monarto. 
I do not know the Albury-Wodonga area. In that sense it would be wrong of me to take up the advocacy with such strength. But I do know this area and I do know its surroundings. I am therefore confident about what I am saying. I say that postponement of its development will not have an adverse effect on the employment situation as it exists because Monarto is today really still in the minds of people and on the drawing boards of draftsmen. It is essentially a collection of administrators at this point. But it is about to take off into the disaster area in the sense that soon- quite soon- funds will be irreversibly committed to the building of a city which is unwanted in South Australia. 
I come to the second and most major point, that is, the projections which have been made by the National Population Inquiry, which is now known as the Borrie Committee, in its report. I must say with a great deal of hurt that the State of South Australia has been predicted to have a very lean future as far as growth is concerned. It has come out as the State at the lowest level on all the scales and has been shown to be the least likely to develop. The predictions which have been made in the Monarto Commission's report have been so definitely contradicted in the Borrie report. There is no doubt that Monarto has been over-promoted. We in South Australia have become used to having a Premier who will ruthlessly use any project to promote his own political fortunes, regardless of the worth of the project or its viability. Of course, the Redcliffs project in South Australia has been dealt with before in this House. I will not bore the House again with it. It is an extreme example of how promotion will get way ahead of Government common sense if  Mr Dunstan  has anything to do with it. 
In response to  Senator McAuliffe  's interjection I say that it is one thing for the Premier to say that the conditions are so attractive in South Australia but it is an other thing for him to explain why it is so unattractive for people to go there and why the predictions for it are so far behind those for the other States in Australia. Why are people migrating from South Australia? Why will people not migrate to South Australia? There has to be a reason for that. I remind  Senator McAuliffe  that the reverse used to be the case. In 1963-64 South Australia took 29 per cent of the migrants who came from Britain to Australia on assisted passages. The Borrie report has now predicted a dramatic reversal for South Australia. 
I think that my statistics should satisfy  Senator McAuliffe  that individual examples do not overcome the mass movements which are quite clearly outlined before us. I go back to the Monarto Development Commission report and give examples of how Monarto has been over-promoted as a city. This is very important because of the immense expenditure proposed for the city. We are not talking of an initial expenditure of a few million dollars; we are talking about the committal of hundreds of millions of dollars, and ultimately thousands of millions of dollars. This is the style of promotion of this city which is set out in the first annual report of the Monarto Development Commission: 
Discussions have been initiated with the PostmasterGeneral's Department in Melbourne to determine the viability of such a system at Monarto. The introduction of a wide-band distribution network could allow the installation of video-telephones, and could provide facilities to send written documents from one house or office to another simply by placing each sheet in a small electronic 'box' and dialling the appropriate telephone number. Studies include consideration of TV as a community facility for special interest transmission and for education. 
I put this proposition to the Senate: Is it proper, in 1975, for video telephones and video electronic transfer devices to enable transmission of documents from house to house to be used as a means of promoting Monarto in this year? Is that a reason for the Commonwealth to commit funds it does not have to that city now? I refer now to one other illustration. This report states: 
The working Draft Concept Plan, placed on public display in June 1974 . . . provided for corridors intended solely for the use of public transport and which could, in due course, be utilised for track transport, such as a personalised rapid transportation system. 
What does 'personal rapid transportation system' mean? Is it a motor car? That is the most relevant and nearest example. As one reads this document one sees the similarity of wording to a thing called the Bruening report which was an American expert's 3 weeks study of what is known as the MATS plan for South Australia. I am reminded of one other report that  Mr Dunstan  had done about the theatres in South Australia. One man said that all you needed to go through with the project was dynamic positivism. You will need more than dynamic positivism to sell Monarto to South Australians when the predictions for South Australia's growth are so dramatically pessimistic as they are in the Borrie report. I refer once more to the population growth as envisaged by the promoters of Monarto. This is important, of course, because we have to understand their motivation for the new city. On page 5 of the Monarto Development Commission 's report it is stated: 
It became evident that, given complete freedom to develop and build, Adelaide's population would grow in an objectionable sprawl from its present size of 870 000, at June 1974, to approximately 1 300 000 by the year 2000. The problems of pollution and congestion experienced by Sydney, Melbourne and many cities overseas would be imposed to an increasing degree on Adelaide, with a consequential lowering of standards and quality of life. 
The essential figures are a prediction by the Monarto Development Commission that Adelaide would grow from 870 000 to 1.3 million in 25 years time. The Borrie report does not substantiate those figures which are the very basis for Monarto. I refer to page 424 of the Borrie report because it is a good beginning. On that page is set out the projected population of Australia's major cities. This information was given by the Cities Commission. The estimate was given by the Cities Commission and this also had a very vital effect on the planning for Monarto. The Cities Commission prediction for Adelaide was 843 000 in 1971 and 2 100 000 in the year 2001. That is the estimated increase in 25 years. If that increase were to take place obviously one would have to say that there has to be an alternative growth centre. All these people cannot go into Adelaide, to the north on the Adelaide Plains or down south to Willunga. But that figure is proved under the Borrie study to be totally incorrect. It is not within a shadow of being reached. The figures given in the Borrie study are contained on ensuing pages. At page 426 there is this statement: 
The assumption of a national population of 23 million or even 2 1 million people by the turn of the century is now quite unwarranted in the light of current trends in fertility and in net immigration. 
But that, whilst damning enough to previous projections of Australia's growth, is on an Australiawide basis. Within that framework of a dramatic reduction of prediction for the whole of Australia comes an even more dramatic prediction of low growth for South Australia. That State was singled out as the lowest growth area for all Australia. This fact doubly compounds the effect of the Monarto Development Commission report. At page 428 of the Borrie report is set out the prediction for South Australia as compared with other States. The projected population for the whole State, under a number of possibilities, ranges from 1 173 000 in 1971 to 1 381 000 by the year 200 1. That is under the first possibility. Under the second possibility the prediction is up to 1.5 million, the third is 1.25 million and the fourth is 1 .369 million. 
I remind the Senate that those figures are for the whole of South Australia whereas the Cities Commission has predicted 2.1 million for Adelaide. This illustrates the enormous disparity in the predictions for the future. There are others. On page 429 of the Borrie report the increases are listed in absolute terms as predicted. For South Australia by the year 200 1 the predicted increase ranged across this field- 207 000, 354 000, 67 000 and 195 000. If honourable senators take an average of those figures they will find that the average prediction of increase in the total population for South Australia is 205 000 by the year 2001. There is a refinement of this figure at page 442 where there is a reference to urban areas. On that page we find the predictions for the urban areas in South Australia are set out in this way: There are predicted increases of 149 000, 254 000, 48 000 and 140 000. On the ensuing page the predicted populations are given as percentages and for South Australia they are 17 per cent, 30 per cent, 5 per cent and 1 6 per cent. 
These figures dramatically undermine any proposals for the establishment of Monarto. They mean that if Monarto is to be fulfilled, according to the Borrie report there would be almost negative growth in Adelaide. We know how nonsensical that is because no matter what inducements are given there will be very many people who will want to live in Adelaide for business or personal reasons. Therefore the South Australian Government now finds itself in the most difficult of all positions. It has signed an agreement with the Commonwealth to proceed with Monarto. It is politically committed to a State election within 12 months. The Borrie report brings to the scene dramatic news that the Monarto proposal should be put into reverse. To proceed will probably waste a tremendous amount of Australian taxpayers' money at a time when the Government is committed to economies. 

 -Apparently Senator McLaren is not listening. He can reply directly. What I am saying is that a report has been on his desk for several weeks. It is new material. It completely contradicts any previous material.  Senator McLaren  had better understand that. 
If the honourable senator throws this report away I suggest that he will not govern on facts or proven material. What he will do is help to govern on emotion in the sense that he lives about 4 miles from where it is proposed to build Monarto. 
I invite  Senator McLaren  to look at the pretty pictures in the back of the Monarto document. He lives close to the area. Let him tell the Senate for how many months of the year these pretty pictures apply to the district of Monarto. Let him honestly say whether they are true reflections of that district. 
-That indicates the worth of  Senator McLaren's  obviously future contribution to the debate. Those who know the district know that it is a completely overpromoted area. This morning, in response to very real criticisms which are being made across the length and breadth of South Australia about this wasteful and unnecessary project in South Australia, the Premier said that he will not now force residents in Adelaide who work for the 3 government departments to live in Monarto. He has changed his tune. In one week he has shown more flexibility, apparently, than  Senator McLaren.  He has changed his mind which, obviously,  Senator McLaren  will not do. But today the Premier changed his mind and said that the South Australian public servants in Adelaide did not have to live in Monarto. All he has said is that they must work in Monarto. They do not have to live there but they must work there. I suggest to the South Australian Premier that this is a quite incomprehensible scheme when, at this stage, he says: 'You do not have to live in Monarto but you have to work there'. Monarto is perhaps 35 or 40 miles from where the public servants live. If they live at Brighton it is 50 miles and 60 miles if they live at Reynella. This morning the Premier said: 'I do not care how you get there. You can get there by rickshaw, steamboat or helicopter. I do not care how you get there but you have to be there when work starts and you can leave when it finishes'. What a proposition of economic efficiency that is. 
I suggest to  Senator McLaren  that he should contribute to the debate as provided in Standing Orders. The proposition put up by the South Australian Government is that it may not be efficient for public servants to live there but it must be the place where they work. So they can travel anything up to 100 miles a days to get to work whereas now they may travel 10 or 15 miles. That is what the South Australian Premier is saying to his public servants and they reject it, as do most South Australians. Monarto in our State is developing into one of the first really big political and Government issues which we have seen for many a decade. It has become a matter of very great concern for South Australians. I suggest it should be a matter of concern for the rest of Australia because their money will go into a city where very few people want to live and into a State which is predicted to have a minimal population growth in the next 25 years. The population growth will nowhere near sustain the expansion rate of Adelaide over the last 25 years. Therefore this proposal is totally unwarranted on projected population growth. It is totally unwarranted at a time when the Federal Government must reduce expenditure. It is totally unwanted by almost the entire public of South Australia. I welcome the opportunity afforded by these Appropriation Bills to say just that. 
Since this Bill was introduced in the Senate last year there has been a great deal of activity, although perhaps least of all among members of Parliament. I have found that members of the community who are deeply involved in the securities industry have taken the view that members of Parliament have been rather tardy in studying the Bill and readying themselves to debate it. In any case, a great deal of activity has occurred in the industry itself, and 1 have had the pleasure of speaking to individuals and organisations on the matter. I have found, of course- as no doubt other senators have found- a variety of views. Some individuals would like to see the Bill defeated, but I believe a significantly greater number of individuals, involved in the securities industry, would welcome many of the provisions of the Bill, while requiring significant amendments to other sections of it. I think it can be said that the industry has displayed a pretty responsible attitude to this legislation. 
As has been said here today, there are calls for very significant amendments to the Bill and I think the contentions are very reasonably based. The regulation of the securities industry, as honourable senators are well aware, is said to be quite a separate matter in some instances from regulations in respect to company law. Therefore there are many aspects of this Bill which are yet to be studied by members of the Parliament and there are many aspects which are yet to be made clear to the industry itself and to many individuals and companies in the community. Therefore I support the referral of this Bill to a select committee. In other circumstances I would have quarrelled with the length of time by which that committee should report, which it is proposed shall be 1 September, but in view of the time factors governing the sittings of the House I believe that period is reasonable, lt is not possible for the committee to report in time for this session for the Senate to deal with the select committee's findings. Therefore 1 September is a reasonable date in the light of the new session which must begin in the second half of the year. 
I do have some problem with a little of the detail of the amendment moved by the Opposition. My problem relates to the certainty or otherwise of the final majority say of the Government on that committee. My experience has been, and I suppose this would apply to all members of Parliament, that the Government of the day ought to have a majority on a select committee that may have to take a final vote on contentious issues. At least theoretically the government of the day ought to have a majority on a committee. That basically has been my experience in the State sphere, as I said, and I am sure that must have been the case here. It certainly has been exhibited as the right of government in regard to a number of committees. Therefore 1 intend to move an amendment to paragraph 5 of the amendment presented in the name of the Opposition to ensure that if the Senate desires to support the committee it will be chaired by a 
Government supporter. I assume, and I believe it is so, that the Opposition did not intend that the committee should be chaired otherwise and in moving my amendment I do not disparage the Opposition's view. I would like to see the matter set out clearly in the amendment so that there can be no doubt for those who consider it and vote upon it this evening. I wish to speak no longer than to say that I think it should be set out clearly in writing just who the  chairman  of this very important committee will be which will study this Bill designed to institute very wide ranging and new regulatory powers if it is passed or in part passed in this parliament. In support of the Opposition's amendment I therefore move: 
In paragraph (5) leave out all words after 'be' and insert one of the senators nominated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate. ' 
Paragraph 5 of the amendment would then read: 
That the  Chairman  of the Committee be one of the senators nominated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate. 
The effect of this would be to give a casting vote to the  chairman  in respect of matters of contention dealt with by a full committee. The Government would have a margin of one, a majority, as it ought to have on such a select committee. I moved the amendment in the expectation that the Senate will provide what I think is a proper and normal provision, one for which there is precedent, enabling a normal vote to be taken by a select committee and giving the majority to the Government in respect of contentious matters. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  Is the amendment seconded? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 

 Senator Hall, are you agreeable to that course? 

The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted for that course to be followed? 
There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Amendment- by leave- amended. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. Is it a fact that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development had prepared for Cabinet a submission to abolish the Cities Commission and to replace it with a cities bureau, within the Department of Urban and Regional Development, at Albury-Wodonga? Is it a fact that the Secretary of the Department and the  Chairman  of the Cities Commission were unaware of the submission to Cabinet before it was lodged? Has the submission been withdrawn because the Minister claimed he had not seen it? Why does the Minister intend to abolish the Cities Commission which his own Government set up in 1973, only 18 months ago, and has since vigorously expanded? What alterations would be made to the priority of growth centres if the Cities Commission were abolished? Why did the Minister not inform the  Chairman  of the Cities Commission of the submission before it was completed? Is the Minister aware that some State authorities are deeply alarmed at the prospect of such a change? 
I believe that the Opposition's amendment should be supported. I disagree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  that no principle is involved because there is a very great principle involved. People who work in the Public Service of this country should not have an advantage in this way over those who work in private employment outside Australia on behalf of their employer. I cannot see why a person who is an Australian national and a citizen of this country who may be overseas for a number of years should be prevented from having a say about the future of the country to which he intends to return. There could be people who spend half their lifetime overseas involved in diplomatic service on behalf of their country or in other areas looking after Australia's interests abroad. It is a matter of some great principle that the government should not institute a right for those who work for the Government and preclude those who do not work for the Government to vote while overseas. On a matter of principle I certainly support the Opposition's amendment. 
Question put: 
That the paragraphs proposed to be left out  (Senator Withers' amendment)  be left out. 
 Senator McLaren  demonstrates his partisan attitude to this Bill by immediately dividing those who may protest about voters who should not be able to vote in a certain election on the basis of whether they may vote Labor or Liberal. The intention that ought to be held uppermost in any thoughts on this matter is to have as correct a roll as possible. I personally know of an instance in South Australia where several hundred people were removed from a State roll by proper objection. If that proper objection had been taken to its fullest extent and if there had been time to enable the roll to be cleaned up for a by-election, the election result would have been quite dramatically different. That is a thought that ought to be uppermost in anyone's mind when considering whether or not one should inhibit a study of the roll. 
What the Government is doing by the method that  Senator Marriott  has illustrated is suggesting that the charge for making a frivolous objectionI think 'frivolous' is the word used in the Act- should be increased to inhibit those who may look at the roll from making objections. They may decide that they are taking a risk and that they might incur some significant economic penalty. I suggest that  Senator McLaren  and the Government have lost sight of the main objective of the parent section of the Act, which is to ensure that an election is as fair as one can make it. By making it harder to object the Government is likely to have a roll which includes people who ought not to be allowed to vote. 
The most uncharitable view one could take of this clause is that it is a thoroughly unprincipled one aimed at trying to entrench existing parties at the expense, as the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Withers,  said, of any new group that would be able otherwise to emerge through the pressures of the day. It will give a decided advantage to the parties already existing and perpetuate the very grave injustice that exists today in regard to the time allocated by the Australian Broadcasting Commission, for instance, when campaigning is under way for Federal and State elections. Parties which are not established are subject to extreme disadvantage in regard to the free time made available to them by the ABC. If we want justice in our electoral support and electoral possibilities in this community we have to take some action to make sure that in future the ABC acts fairly. In the past it has acted unfairly. The same principles as  Senator Withers  put forward in regard to this clause apply to the ABC. At another time and on another occasion I would like to see something done to rectify the very grave injustices in that area. 
The most charitable thing one could say about this clause is that the Government is exhibiting the very conservative streak which flows so deeply through the Labor Party. It does not want change. It wants to establish the considered order of things as it exists and it wants to inhibit those who may come newly to the situation. 
I use the word conservative' in the worst established South Australian sense. I agree with  Senator Withers-  I am rather alarmed because I seem to be agreeing with him all evening- that the public is disarming and does know whether it is voting for the 
Australian Labor Party, the Democratic Labor Party, the Liberal Party, or the Liberal Movement. I believe the voter is intelligent. In South Australia the voters are so intelligent that they are shifting in droves from the Liberal Party to the Liberal Movement. As to whether party members are bound in this place, we know that members of the Labor Party are bound and we suspect that members of the Liberal Party are bound, although its members deny it. All I can say is that later, when dealing with further clauses of this Bill, we will be able to discern whether members of the Liberal Party are bound. We will see whether their vote on this occasion corresponds to their declared opinion last year. I support the Opposition's attitude in regard to this clause. 
I move: 
Leave out all words after 'is' (first occuring). 
I seek to use this amendment as a vehicle to repeal the parent section, section 70, of the principal Act, the Commonwealth Electoral Act, which states: 
No person who- 
is at the date of nomination a Member of the Parliament of a State; or 
b) was at any time within fourteen days prior to the date of nomination a member of the Parliament of a State; or 
has resigned from the Parliament of a State and has the right, under the law of the State, if not elected to the Parliament of the Commonwealth, to be reelected to the Parliament of the State without the holding of a poll, shall be capable of being nominated as a  Senator, or  as a Member of the House of Representatives. 
I remind the Committee of the first words of the section 'No person' and of the concluding words of the section 'shall be capable of being nominated as a  Senator, or  as a Member of the House of Representatives'. There were some earlier prohibitions in State laws. In South Australia, for most of the State's history, ministers of religion were prohibited from becoming members of State Parliament. This prohibition was in the State Electoral Act. I think it was built into the State's constitution. The prohibition was removed eventually a few years ago. It was seen to be a very silly prohibition. It is not the State laws which prevent members of the State parliaments standing for a Federal seat, it is the Commonwealth Electoral Act. As honourable senators are well aware, clause 23 of the Electoral Laws Amendment Bill seeks to extend this prohibition on members of State parliaments being elected to the Federal Parliament to members of the legislative assemblies of the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory being elected to the Federal Parliament. I see this prohibition as a very real bar to obtaining as Federal members existing members of Parliament who may have some particular expertise. 
Whilst it is a simple technical matter to resign one's seat in a State parliament and after the required time lapse stand for a Federal seat or for a position in the Senate, it is a very great inhibition to members of Parliament to risk their entire political career to make the step from a State to the Federal scene. I think the prohibition is quite unwarranted. Whilst I have not had the time to assemble the detail as to precise dates, I understand that in the late 1920s it was possible, under legislation passed by State parliaments, for State members to stand for the Federal Parliament. The Federal Parliament, through its Commonwealth Electoral Act, took blocking action and altered that Act. That provision still stands today in section 70 in such a way as to prohibit what the States had made possible. I do not think there should be any more prohibitions on State members being members of this Parliament than there were on ministers of religion being members of State houses. I think it is an antiquated provision. I think it is antiquated thinking which wants to extend the current prohibition to members of the legislative assemblies of the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory. 
Why should there be a prohibition standing in the way of existing State and Territory members when there is no prohibition on members of the Public Service, for instance? What really different parallels could there be at senior levels? The secretary of a State department- the head of a department- could stand for the Senate but his Minister or a State backbencher could not stand for the Senate without risking everything he has built up in his political career, putting it all at stake and hoping he wins. 
-Senator Georges is right to draw my attention to perhaps an overstatement on my part. Public servants must resign. I am not sure of the State law. I know that Federal public servants must resign. The resignation is a technicality because in each case their position is secure for them under present procedures if they fail. They must take some long service leave and resign. If they do not succeed they go back to their position. That is not the case with a member of State Parliament. If he has to resign his seat in the State Parliament, as he does, and he fails to gain entry into the Federal Parliament, his career is finished until he contests another election, hopefully, with the break affecting very adversely his standing in the public in the meantime. 
Why should we extend this prohibition? The very least we should do is knock out this clause to ensure that the Territories are not treated unjustly. The most we should do is to use this amendment to clause 23 to repeal the parent section, section 70 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. I believe there will be no flood of State members into Federal Parliament. If they are elected, they will be elected on their reputation. 

 - Senator Withers is quite right. Why would a member of the Victorian Parliament leave that Parliament for pecuniary reasons? Members there are much better off than we are. What is more important, they can get their rises without the public criticism which the Federal Parliament has to endure when there are rises in our emoluments. Whether a man is a member of Parliament, a senior public servant or is in some public employ or is selfemployed, he has to be elected on merits that he must prove to the public. If he has merits which have been substantiated in State political service or in territorial political service and he is certain of. winning a Federal seat, he is valuable to this place or the other place. 

I think he should resign before his seat is declared. For me, that is a sufficient time factor. I would say that he should resign before the declaration of his seat. As the clause stands today, it is a somewhat vindictive clause. Under a State law he cannot stand if he is certain of again obtaining his seat. I repeat section 70 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. It states: 
No person who- 
has resigned from the Parliament of a State and has the right, under the law of the State, if not elected to the .Parliament of the Commonwealth, to .bc reelected to the Parliament of the State without the holding of a poll. 
It goes into some detail about prohibition on a safe retreat to the seat that he would seek to leave. 1 believe that in the past we must have lost experience from State parliaments which would have been invaluable to this Parliament. Does my amendment need a seconder? 1 believe one senator is interested in seconding it, but he is not present. Time will not permit me to continue. 
I thank  Senator Wood  for his support. At the same time I recognise the difficulties which have been raised on both sides of the chamber as to the detailed and overlapping functions and responsibilities that may occur by the absolute removal by the deletion of section 70 of the principal Act of any disciplines in this regard. However, I am still as firmly convinced as ever that something ought to be done. The matter is not now as nicely boxed as those who will oppose my amendment might imagine because, as one honourable senator has already said, the existing clauses mean that it would be possible for a federal administration, if it so desired deliberately to fix the time between nominations and the issuing of the writ, to preclude any member of a State parliament from standing at a federal election. That is quite possible under the existing provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. I believe that it is just as unfair as the reverse situation and that some of the difficulties that might arise are those which have been postulated by honourable senators tonight. Let us not imagine that by defeating this amendment we are tidying things up nicely because we are not. 
I wish to instance my own experience of last year. I watched very carefully the decisions of the Federal Government in this matter. I left my resignation from the State Parliament to the very last day that I could leave it, not so much from the point of view of salary but as a matter of political tactics. Quite frankly, we did not want a byelection to be held in the seat that I was vacating before the Senate election. So for quite proper political tactical reasons my resignation was left until the last possible day. Other parties were not at all co-operative. I know that the Labor Party was watching very carefully the date of my resignation. There was jubilation in the Parliamentary refreshment room when it was thought that I might have left my resignation too late. I had not done so but it was a matter of some jubilation that I might have left it too late. We cannot always obtain nor expect the co-operation to which  Senator Withers  referred. We cannot expect it when politics can be fought at a very hard and determined level. 
I see an absolute need to clear up this situation so that there may be justice in this direction. I recognise some of the problems that have been raised here tonight. But the question then arises as to how we are to achieve a solution. Everyone of us knows that it may be a long while before section 70 of the principal Act is again raised in an amending Bill. It is only the fact that section 70 has been raised to extend this prohibition to the Legislative Assemblies of the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory that enables us to refer back to it. So it might be ten or fifteen years before section 70 is raised again by a government in such a measure. If this Bill is passed and my amendment is passed and the prohibition is extended, the government of the day, whether it be a Liberal government or a Labor government, may make no attempt for a decade to do anything about it. How are we to ensure that it does? I suggest that we can ensure that the government of the day does something before the next election by either passing my amendment or refusing to pass the clause in the Bill. If either of those two courses are taken the Government will have to take some initiative either to clear up the situation for the Legislative Assemblies, which would have none of the prohibition which the States now have, or to clear up the matter for the Legislative Assemblies of the Territories and for the States, which would not be dealt with at all. I suppose that those of us who have spoken tonight with some favour for the principle should ensure that the Government is forced to do something about it by supporting my amendment or at least defeating the clause in the amending Bill. In that way this situation would be left unsatisfied and the Government would have to introduce some of the detail which it foresees as being additionally necessary to what I have included in my amendment. Therefore, I intend to continue to support my amendment. If it is not passed I will vote against the clause in the Bill. By both those courses I will be trying to force the Government to take action along the lines that I and other honourable senators desire. I want to make it quite clear that in taking that action I recognise the difficulties and understand that the Government would have to do something. I am not acting in a blind fashion with regard to this matter. I want my attitude to be made quite clear. 
I am appreciative of  Senator Withers'  attitude to this question. For my part it is a toss-up as to which would be the better way of impressing the matter on the Government- to pass my amendment or to do as  Senator Withers  has suggested, that is, simply not to pass the clause and therefore draw the matter to the Government's attention. I believe that that is only half satisfactory. I should like  Senator Withers  to consider not voting for the Government's amendment in this amending Bill and allowing the initiative to rest permanently with the Government so that it will have to take action. We all have seen governments say they will look at things, but on occasions it takes a long time for them to do so. The only thing is to leave the necessity to do something about this matter in the Government's court. If the necessity is there, if this prohibition is not placed on members of legislative assemblies and if the Government thinks that the matter is important enough it will do something about it. But if, when the Bill is returned to the Senate, the Opposition agrees with the Government's amendment to the Act, all pressure will be off the Government to take any action at all. The only occasion on which subsequent changes to the Act will be effected will be when we are considering Government legislation or private member's Bills. I suggest that action taken in either of those cases would be unlikely to achieve our objective and that the Government would have achieved its objective. I suggest to  Senator Withers,  with due respect, that when the Bill is returned to the Senate he should leave the Government somewhat unsatisfied. I think that whatever differences we on this side of the chamber may have we surely must have the continuing aim to leave the Government largely unsatisfied. If  Senator Wood  would agree to transfer to  Senator Withers'  proposition the support that I believe he so nobly indicated he would give to my amendment,  we  should simply vote against the clause and that would save the time of the Committee. 
Willi iiic permission of the Committee. 
Whilst the Opposition, in accepting this Bill into the Committee stage and therefore accepting many of its provisions, has adopted a much more forward attitude than it adopted when the Bill was introduced in a previous year and the Opposition knocked out the whole of that Bill, it is resiling in this case by refusing to accept what is undoubtedly the most just means of listing candidates for House of Representatives elections. I just do not believe that  Senator Withers  is as innocent as he would have us believe from the speech he has just made. If he looks at the list of members of the House of Representatives he will find a very heavy weighting in favour of those whose surnames start with letters at the beginning of the alphabet. Apparently it pays for a condidate to have his surname begin with the letter  C  as there are 19 members of the House of Representatives whose surnames start with that letter. 
Obviously, in his political life  Senator Withers  has heard of the search that his Party has made in particular seats for candidates whose surnames begin with letters that will put them on the ballot paper ahead of the sitting member who represents the opposite party.  Senator Withers  knows that political scientists can substantiate claims that a certain percentage of votes at an election goes to the candidate whose name is first on the list. Why would the Opposition want to oppose a scheme that removes that automatic advantage that a candidate can have over a sitting member? 
Why should a sitting member be disadvantaged by the fact that the opposing party can find a candidate with a surname that begins with a letter of the alphabet that is ahead of the letter with which the sitting member's surname begins? Such a practice gives an unfair advantage to the candidate who opposes the sitting member. In opposing the provision in the Bill, the Opposition is intending to perpetuate a scheme that is blatantly unfair to sitting members of Parliament, and political scientists can prove it is unfair. I can see not one whit of reason why the Opposition would oppose a provision that would give sitting members at least the right to fight an election on the basis of their performance rather than have to contend with smartalec tricks used by their political opponents. Although  Senator Withers  may be innocent in many other matters, I do not believe that he is as innocent as he has made out in his remarks about this provision. 
He has not revealed to the Committee why his Party proposes to vote against this clause. He has said that he will have one lottery as against another. He also said- I think I heard arightthat nowadays members of the public are intelligent enough to select the candidate they want. He knows very well that the overwhelming number of people will vote for the party they want. Therefore, the party will search for a person whose name begins with a letter of the alphabet that will give him a favourable position on the ballot paper. I do not think that position should be supported by  Senator Withers  or any other member of the Committee. 
I think that  Senator Withers  has provided his own answer. He referred to the 20 seats which would make or break the Government. He went through the surnames of the sitting members, indicating the letter of the alphabet with which their surnames begin. One thing that  Senator Withers  knows is that opposing parties will look for candidates whose surname starts with a letter at the beginning of the alphabet. That is the automatic search which the parties will make. Some parties will decide in their preselection machinery that a candidate whose surname starts with a letter at the beginning of the alphabet is more valuable as a person than someone else. Most certainly the letter of the alphabet with which a person's name begins will be an important consideration. I ask  Senator Withers  whether he wants the Government of Australia to be decided in the 20 seats to which he referred by the letter of the alphabet with which the names of a number of candidates begin. I suggest that he does not want that. I suggest that he ought to stop being caucused and vote for a most desirable clause. 
I was first made aware personally of possible conflicts of a member of Parliament with the Constitution in the State sphere when I came into Parliament as long ago as 1959. At that time I was a representative of a rural area and as a rural operator I used to grow some very delectable turkeys. I remember the chief of the South Australian parliamentary catering service coming to me and saying: 'Will you sell me some of your turkeys, perhaps one a week, at the wholesale price? I am paying 7s.6d. per lb from my supplier. Can you sell me turkeys at a lower fee?' I said: 'Yes, I will deliver turkeys to you at a concession rate of 5s. per lb.' She said: 'Great, I will take one a week and then members of Parliament in our very frugal State can have turkey on their menu every week'. 
I brought down, of course, one of the best turkeys and presented it to the caterer. She was wildly enthusiastic, as were all members of the State Parliament when they tasted the fare. The conversation in the refreshment rooms that evening was about this magnificent turkey meat. This was the subject of the conversation until one of the senior members of the Playford Government said to me: 'If you sell those turkeys to the catering service your seat will be vacant. You will be dealing with the Crown and you cannot do that. However small the practice may be, you have a financial interest with the Crown'. I cannot remember whether I took payment or whether I forwent it on the basis that I might be prejudicing my seat. So to this day I do not know whether I got my 5, but I do know that I got an extremely valuable lesson on the business of contravening constitutions with personal interest. I have never forgotten it. 
I may say that those who have been involved in the South Australian Parliament have been acutely aware of the need to be absolutely free of any dealings with the State Government, and it has been a rule of thumb that no one may have a loan from the State Bank of South Australia, no one may rent a South Australian Housing Trust house, and no one may do any other thing that has any financial contract with the State, whether it be the State providing a service to the person or the person providing a service to the State; no pecuniary interest may pass. 
It is with that background that I am, of course, intrigued by the actions of the Senate as it is now going through it deliberations. The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt)  referred constantly in his speech to the referral by the Joint Committee on Pecuniary Interests of Members of Parliament to the Senate. In straight technical terms, of course, it is not a referral. The 
Committee is charged only with acquainting the Senate. The Committee has no charter and no terms of reference to accuse anyone on this matter. It acquaints the Senate only of the charges which are made. The action of the Committee diminishes the responsibilities of the Senate not one whit. It is the Senate which is doing this work today and no one else- not arly committee. 
The Committee only acquainted the Senate. So any deliberations that are made on  Senator Webster  are done by the Senate in this chamber today and no responsibility belongs anywhere else for the actions which the Senate will take. Therefore the Committee is assessing really whether  Senator Webster's  case should go before the High Court, and the general opinion of this Senate is that he shall be judged. A serious doubt has been raised, the Senate has been acquainted with the fact and the Senate rightly believes that it should not itself deliberate in such a court. It is the intention of the Senate in some way to refer this question to the Court of Disputed Returns. I agree with those speakers who have taken the view that it ought to be referred to the Court of Disputed Returns, although I will return to the manner of its referral before I finish my speech. 
There is also a general area of concern that the whole question of members dealing at any level with the Government be cleared up so that no one shall innocently transgress as well as perhaps deliberately transgress. The statements of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in another place and the statements by  Senator Withers  on behalf of the Opposition parties in this place yesterday clearly defined this desire to clarify the situation. In seeking to refer the question for the clarification of all members, we tend to paper over or to obscure the real question on which we will vote, that is, whether we are sending  Senator Webster  to his political execution. That is what we are really talking about. We could decide the other matter any time. On any day we could pass the proposition in  Senator Withers  ' amendment. What we decide will vitally affect the rights of an individual to sit here and the rights of his supporters at the election to be represented here by him. We may well be sending him to his political execution, depending upon the other matters which surround the referral. 
I find this a pretty distasteful affair which is all too neatly packaged. We have been told by the main speakers on behalf of the Government that we must not have a witch hunt. Am I to take it from that that the witch hunt stops with  Senator Webster?  We go as far as that with the witch hunt, and we stop there. We take one step. We implicate one senator. We have that witch hunt. We stop at that point. There is to be no further witch hunt. That is as far as we go. But we do have a witch hunt. Senators on both sides have said that  Senator Webster  should be judged. That is a witch hunt by any definition and is paralleled possibly by the witch hunt here today. I wish to make it quite clear that in speaking in these terms I am not a member of  Senator Webster's  Party, which is evident to everyone in this chamber. I have had some fairly deep political divisions with him. At times we have somewhat virulently crossed swords in the chamber. I see coming in the future the greatest of political divisions with  Senator Webster,  and that is the proposal to pass the redistribution of electorates in Australia. I want it clear that I am no political friend in the sense that on many main issues we disagree. I share with him a general direction of non-Labor, but I am in no way tied with him. When I speak on his behalf in any way today I do not do so from any political comradeship. I speak on the basis of obtaining justice, which the motion and the amendment are not obtaining today. 
The Senate has a ludicrous proposition before it. Faced with all the rumours in the corridors of Parliament House and with the 2 matters which were raised quite properly by  Senator Wright  today, the Senate is proposing to send one person forward to obtain absolution. Throw him to the dragons and he will be our confession. Then in the following weeks and months we can try to paper it all over so that no one else will come under the sort of scrutiny and sentencing that  Senator Webster  will come under today. Where is the fairness of this chamber if it passes the motion or the motion as it is sought to be amended? It is true that other members have agreements with the Commonwealth. One cannot have an agreement with the Commonwealth whether it is to supply the Commonwealth with services for which one is paid or whether it is for services which one obtains from the Commonwealth and for which one pays the Commonwealth. The Constitution is rigid about this matter. It has been read a number of times. I read again the relevant part, in the context of the 2-way proposition. It states that any member who: 
Has any direct or indirect pecuniary interest in any agreement with the Public Service of the Commonwealth. 
They are the words. We can forget the company structure at the moment. That is another matter which  Senator Webster  will, I am sure, raise at the right time. He has asserted that there are more than 25 interested people in his company. 
He made that assertion recently in the Senate. Let us forget that argument in relation to the application of this section. The Constitution states that any member who: 
Has any direct or indirect pecuniary interest in any agreement with the Public Service of the Commonwealth. 
Other members have direct pecuniary agreements with the Public Service of the Commonwealth.  Senator Wright  mentioned one today. The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has an agreement which is signed on paper headed Commonwealth of Australia'. It was dealt with and processed by public servants of the Commonwealth. He gets a pecuniary advantage which is far in excess of any that  Senator Webster  has gained. I challenge anyone to deny categorically that the  Deputy  Prime Minister has had such a pecuniary advantage. The Senate will send one person to the Court of Disputed Returns to obtain absolution for all the Parliament.  Senator Georges  said that we should keep quiet about it.  Senator Wright  has done a service to the Senate by raising it. I intend to add to the motion an amendment which will attempt to bring some relative justice.  Senator Wright  used some very good phrases in his speech. I cannot remember them now. He said that justice must be done. 
-The tone of the interjections is that I could become an informer, that it is some dirty work. It is all right as the basis of the Labor Party's proposal in relation to  Senator Webster,  but it is below the dignity of a senator to be involved in obtaining relative justice for  Senator Webster.  The documents are quite clear for  Senator Cavanagh  to deliberate on his ministerial colleague. In February this year the  Deputy  Prime Minister by an agreement with the Public Service of the Commonwealth obtained a flat at a very advantageous rate- $10.40 a week. Where else could one get a flat in Canberra for $ 10.40 a week? 
Will the Minister categorically deny it? Will he say that there is a doubt, or will he categorically deny it? 
-They are the exact words I wanted from the Minister. He is not a legal man. He is not capable of legally interpreting whether  Dr Cairns  has broken the directions of the Constitution. Who is? The Court of Disputed Returns is. The decision of the Joint Committee on Pecuniary Interests of Members of Parliament was to acquaint the Senate of the position in relation to  Senator Webster.  A process is also available for the Joint Committee to acquaint the House of Representatives, under its Standing Orders, in almost identical terms, of the position in relation to one member of the House of Representatives. That Committee is able to call for papers, call witnesses and find out all things which are pertinent to its inquiry. I suggest that it is derelict in its duty if it sentences one member from this place. It should not send him from here for the adjudication of the Court of Disputed Returns to protect other members. It is all too neatly packaged. It is one of the most sordid moves that I have seen in my political career- to hide one 's own or to hide others. 
People on both sides are involved. Make no mistake about it. I do not charge  Dr Cairns  in isolation. I do not intend to name any others, but their cases are freely available and are freely documented. If they are available and documented, why do we attack one man only? There is no answer. There can be no answer. Because an informer has given evidence to the Committee about one man, the Committee will turn Nelson's eye to all the others. It is a shameful dereliction of duty by this House. I suggest that if  Senator Webster's  case is a prima facie case of breaching the Constitution- as I think  Senator Wright  said it was- certainly  Dr Cairns'  case is in the same category. There is no difference in the severity of the breach. I suggest that  Dr Cairns'  monetary reward is greater. If one took the possible and probable percentage of commercial profit from the contracts that the Webster firm had with the Commonwealth- in tender and in competition with others- and took the company tax from it, divided it by five, which has been  Senator Webster's  personal interest in the past, one would find that the pecuniary increment to  Senator Webster  would be far below that which accrues to  Dr Cairns,  who receives a subsidy on his flat and pays only $10.40 a week. 
It is pure nonsense to choose one man because he happens to be involved in a shareholding arrangement which has received a positive payment from the Commonwealth and yet to say to another, who gets an advantage by paying the 
Commonwealth about one-third of the commercial rate for a flat, that he shall go free. It is pure nonsense and it is totally inequitable. I suggest that  Dr Cairns'  - 
the types of circumstances in which the receipt by members of the Parliament of moneys, fees and other benefits might constitute a breach of sections 44 (v) and/or 45 (iii) of the Constitution . . . 
I rule that  Senator Hall  is speaking within the terms of that section of the amendment and can continue his remarks. 
-Thank you,  Mr President.  I suggest that if  Senator Webster's  case is to be referred directly to the High Court another should go with it. We should have some balance. There is some reasoning in this balancing, in political and practical terms. There should be at least one person from each side of politics if we are to be fair. There should be one person from each House of Parliament. There should be one where the contractor supplies the Government and another where the Government supplies the person. In that way we would have a fair test of all the questions which have been outlined before us. We are not willing to have a fair test. We are, indeed, having a witch hunt to throw  Senator Webster  out to salve our consciences. There is no other way of looking at it. 
We do the job properly or we make an unfair example of one individual. We should do either one of those 2 things. We either do it properly or we single out one individual, which is unfair. This motion singles out one person unfairly. 
As the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  admitted, he is not capable of assessing whether  Dr Cairns  is guilty of breaking the Constitution, as I say he is. That means that serious doubts exist in relation to  Dr Cairns,  probably as much doubt as exists in the case of  Senator Webster.  The matter of  Dr Cairns  should be referred to the Court of Disputed Returns. The situation of anyone else who is on the list should also be referred to the Court of Disputed Returns. Both matters should be referred to the Court to make sure that  Senator Webster  is not made the scapegoat in one of the most unsavoury moves that has developed in this place for a long time. I now refer to the question which was raised earlier about giving evidence to the Committee. This information came into my possession only in the last few days. I was shocked, having adopted the early opinion that  Senator Webster's  case should go to the Court, to find clear evidence of other breaches. I felt I was placed in a very difficult position indeed- te be expected to vote on this matter today, so joining in a witch hunt that stops at one man. I propose to move an amendment to the original motion. I move: 
After 'That' appearing in the first line the following words be inserted: when the judicial committee has reported' 
The motion will then read: 
That when the judicial committee has reported the following questions respecting the qualifications of  Senator James  Joseph Webster be referred to the Court of Disputed Returns . . . 
That will in no way deter honourable senators from pursuing the general across the benches desire to have this matter properly cleared up. It will mean- if what honourable senators on this side of the House are saying is correct, if what  Senator Wright  is saying is correct, and if what I have said is correct- that  Senator Webster  willnot go alone. That is my concern. It is not my concern to shield anyone who has breached the Constitution. The Minister for Agriculture and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  have said that the Constitution must be upheld. There is no question that it shall be subverted or slid around. There also can be no question that we cannot send one man to carry possibly five or six others behind him or perhaps to shield those behind him. I move my amendment to obtain what I believe is a minimum of justice- to make sure that  Senator Webster's  position is quite clear and his case should go to the High Court but not until the judicial committee has reported. We must entertain the possibility that  Senator Webster  may yet properly defend his position in the High Court. Those who may possibly join him in a similar position of doubt should also face those who will judge him. To do otherwise in this matter is to join in the most unsavoury single minded attempt to subvert justice instead of to apply it. 
-HALL- I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Did the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Dr J.  Cairns, sign an agreement with the Public Service of the Commonwealth for the rental of a flat situated at Lachlan Court, Barton, Australian Capital Territory, tenancy commencing on 25 February this year? Will the Minister indicate in his reply the rental paid by  Dr Cairns  so that the extent of his direct or indirect pecuniary interest in the agreement can be ascertained? As the Minister is unlikely to have this material immediately at hand, will he reply urgently in writing during the recess so that any doubts about the constitutionality of this matter may be resolved as soon as possible? 
I suppose one should ask: What is the purpose of this motion? I guess it is to embarrass the Government, particularly the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  and to divide the Australian people into 2 camps on the issue more definitely than they were divided before this debate. If that was the intention, I believe it has failed. From a reasonably impartial listener's viewpoint today, I would say the Government has won the debate hands down in both Houses. It has been a waste of time. I heartily agree with  Senator Bunton  's remarks. For some weeks there has been discussion about these cables. The Australian public is thoroughly confused and will divide on this issue only according to Party lines. I can say to  Senator Greenwood  that the number of his supporters on the issue of Vietnam has diminished from the number that it was a few weeks ago because many Liberals now agree with the statements which have been made in recent weeks by United States leaders in their country. There has been a great regret by so many people about the events of Vietnam. There has been a desire to forget. It has been shown by the lack of public interest in a number of issues on Vietnam. Whether the desire to forget is good or not, there is that desire. 
I am disappointed that the Opposition should have taken so much time in both Houses of Parliament today to waste ammunition on something that the public wants to forget when there are so many great issues upon which it should be attacking the Government. The economic issues which are foremost in this country today and which are concerning the majority of Australians have hardly been mentioned in the first sitting day after a fortnight's recess. It is on this issue that the Government is so vulnerable, especially since it has shown political cowardice in regard to the application before the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for increased wages under the metal trades award. By moving this motion the Opposition has failed to attack. It has failed to put its own house in order. There is no united voice or clear cut statement from the Opposition as to what it will do about the proposed Australian Government Insurance Office. It has done nothing in the face of one of the greatest moves to nationalisation that Australia has seen. Where does the Opposition stand? People march in the street and wonder where it stands. It wastes the time of Parliament today on this ridiculous issue. The Government is vulnerable on the issue which took some time previously in this chamber concerning the sending of one of its members to the High Court and his qualifications as a senator while it covers up for members in the other House. It will not give information which the public should have about other members so that their qualifications could be assessed also. There are so many issues on which the Government is deserving of attack and criticism, particularly the cowardice and the division on the economic front. 
The Opposition talks about a 30-year war. As '  Senator Bunton  so rightly said, thankfully it is ended now, whatever may be the circumstances about its ending. Australians do not want to go on seeing division among their own ranks about it. The motion is quite absurd. It does no credit to the Opposition. It has highlighted the debating ability of the Government in this House and in the other House. I am quite sure that the reports of the Opposition's effort will show that the Government has gained and not lost on this argument. Therefore, I am pleased to add the voting strength of the Liberal Movement to the independence of  Senator Bunton  in this vote. 
I understand that the procedure is that  Senator Withers  has moved the amendments on the list which has been supplied to us. In that case I wish to move a further amendment to his amendment. I move: 
Prior to the word 'Mark' in the first line of his amendment insert the word 'Please'. 
In support of that I say that there has been a lot of talk about encouraging people to vote. This is a very minor part but I believe that it is simply good manners to add it. 
This morning when the Manager of Government Business in the Senate  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  said 'formal' when you,  Mr President,  called on the discovery of formal business, I said 'not formal'. I wished to initiate some debate on this issue to ascertain why the Opposition is opposing this motion. I wanted the Opposition to state its case. I understood that the Government had knowledge, as a result of communications between the 2 parties, that the Opposition would not justify its refusal to sit on Fridays in the last weeks of the sitting. I desired to say something about the matter because I believe that the work of the Senate, particularly the work of the Opposition, is prejudiced if the 2 Houses meet separately. If this House alone sits for the last week or two of the session after the House of Representatives has risen, it will be useless in any legislative work and will be simply a forum for the exposition of Opposition views and criticisms of the Government. It will be powerless to amend except on the basis that the legislation will have to be stood over to the next session of Parliament, next August or possibly September, when the Bills can be dealt with again. 
There was an example of this last year. At the end of last year 2 Bills containing matters of great importance and matters of principle were unable to be amended as the Opposition intended them to be amended. One or two amendments of mine were not passed, although they had the general agreement of members on this side, because the responsibility would have rested on members on this side for the failure to pass those Bills and for them being stood over until February or March of this year. 
-One concerned the Australian Wool Corporation. It now has within its powers the right to manufacture and process wool, in direct competition with private manufacturers and processors, simply because the House of Representatives had risen and we could not send these amendments to it. Important State rights were given away by this side of the House when it did not pursue amendments to an education Bill because we would have delayed the passage of it if we had proceeded with the amendments. For the Opposition to refuse to sit on Fridays, which makes it almost certain that the Senate will sit after the House of Representatives has risen, is the greatest gift which this side of Parliament could give to the Labor Government. If I were in the Labor Government's shoes I would make sure that I got as much legislation as possible to this place to put the Opposition in the position of having to agree to it in its entirety and without amendment or having to bear the responsibility of having it stood over until next August or September. By the performance of the Opposition last year, I know what would be the case. The Government would get its legislation. I expect that the Leader of the Opposition will speak directly, but it would seem that for some reason he would not take his normal responsibility, which is to speak after the Minister has put a proposition to the Senate. He would not rise.  Mr President,  as you saw, he waited for me to get up first. I was willing to get up first. Let him tell the Senate, if he is to justify his position, all about what happened last year and how the States' rights were given away by a party which spends half of its time talking about States' rights. What is the reason that the Opposition has informed the Government that it will not sit on Fridays? Is it that the new research officers, which all members have been given since the event of last year to which I referred, are not of sufficient help to members to enable them to sit on one, two or three Fridays at the end of this session? What is the reason? I certainly want to make my protest if the Senate, because the Opposition's tardiness to sit on Fridays, is to be forced to sit in disjunction with the lower House when the lower House has risen. I make a protest now at the fact that any amendments I may make on behalf of my constituents, and any amendments which this side of the chamber may make, will be useless in the face of the pressures that I have mentioned. 
There are one or two matters in connection with this motion which I would like to have clarified. They concern future sittings of the Committee. The Committee had what I suppose the Senate and the public would know is a most unexpected result. As a result of the setting up of this Committee and its sittings and as a result of it hearing evidence of the type which it admitted, the case of  Senator Webster  has been sent to the High Court sitting as the Court of Disputed Returns. That case concerned a challenge to his qualifications to sit as a senator.  Mr President,  you have sent us a letter informing us that you have transmitted to the High Court the resolution which was passed by the Senate. You have added other details in your role of informing the High Court of the decision of the Senate. 
Since then other matters concerning members of Parliament have been raised by the Minister for the Capital Territory,  Mr Bryant,  in a letter which he wrote to all members concerning members' accommodation. He started his letter by saying that 'members will have noticed the criticism of government accommodation being allocated to Ministers and others in Canberra '. So the subject has been taken further by a Government Minister, in addition to the issue of  Senator Webster's  trial, if one can use that term, by the Court of Disputed Returns regarding his qualifications. I have endeavoured to bring to the notice of the correct authorities what I believe to be a contravention of the Constitution by the  Deputy  Prime Minister of the country,  Dr Cairns. 
I intend to support the clause and oppose the Opposition's amendment. In so doing I want to make my support of the preferential system of voting for Lower House elections quite clear. I am in support of the idea of limited preferences under this optional system of voting only because there is a very distinct overload on the type of voting at present, as was demonstrated at the last Senate election. In the rather dynamic political scene that exists in Australia we can perhaps expect more elections to occur in the future- in the mid-term- in which a large number of candidates may very well present themselves for selection to the Senate. I believe that we should endeavour to make formal as many votes as possible and I believe that the Government's move will have the effect of making more votes formal. It adopts the compromise that there is a sufficient number of preferences allocated to make at least theoretically valid the respective second choices of electors. Having stated my support in those terms, I want to dissociate myself in all ways from  Senator Walsh.  I do not attack the preferential system; I support it. I can see nothing wrong with the concern of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party or any other party about the possible loss of preferences through an alteration of the system. I believe that anything but a preferential system, where it can be worked, is a denial of the final choice of the electors. I want to make it quite clear that I do not join in any movement towards dismantling the preferential system by agreeing to a limited preferential type of voting procedure because of the overload on the system. I want to put that on record. 
Do I understand that  Senator Withers  is moving his amendments Nos. 43 and 44 together and is substituting the clauses headed 'insert' for the clauses headed 'leave out'? 
-Thank you. I raise a very small point, but I think it is a matter involving some style in what is being done. I would like to see the word 'please ' put in front of the word 'mark'. If  Senator Withers  looks at the clause that he is proposing to leave out he will see that it is less abrupt to say 'your vote must be made ' than simply to say ' mark your vote '. Quite frankly, I do not think it hurts to extend some little courtesy in the demands that we make. We are dealing with some compulsion in voting, although the compulsion may not be observer if a person wishes to vote informally. 
-One might get more results that way. I remember an occasion long ago in South Australia when the railways department decided not to give change to people who came to buy tickets. The department put a sign outside ticket sales offices which said: Present correct change here'. After a small lonehanded battle, I got that altered to read: 'Please present correct change here'. It is a very small point, but it is a very small matter to change the wording here when we are amending the Act. I will move an amendment, or if  Senator Withers  would like to incorporate it in his amendment I would be happy for him to do so. 
I appreciate the conciliatory attitude of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  towards my amendment but I do not find it satisfactory. As he said, the Bill has been mutilated and must go back to the other House. It is of little consequence to the future of the Bill or to its possibilities of success or otherwise as an amending Bill to the main Electoral Act whether it has one more alteration. On that basis I persist with my amendment. 
I believe it reasonable that the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  should have some latitude in discretion and should not be tied, as the amendment proposes to tie him, in regard to proof and as to the disbursement of sums of money as set out in the amendment. I think the Government should be given an opportunity to prove that it will act more positively in the future than it has in the past and that it will not continue in the vein of in some ways discouraging the rehabilitation of Darwin. The loss of the  Chairman  of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission, the refusal of the Government to act on the widely presented claim for some real tax relief for residents and business people of Darwin have culminated in the matter referred to by  Senator Jessop  when he spoke of the demoralisation of the people of Darwin which was so clearly described this morning on the Australian Broadcasting Commission 'AM' program. I would like to hand to the Minister the latitude in discretion to prove that the Government can reverse an apparently fairly inactive and unsatisfactory involvement so far in the reconstruction of Darwin. I think it is fair that those people who have or who have not received compensation should be able to take their complaint to a proper place of appeal. Therefore I would support the latter part of the Opposition's amendment, namely item 4c, because it seems to me that whilst the Minister should have discretion in respect of the detail concerning compensation and should not create hardship among individuals who cannot meet the rather strict stipulations set out in the Opposition's amendment, I believe there ought to be some place of appeal for these people. It seems to me to be only right that this should be so. I would oppose items 4a and 4b and support 4c of the amendment which relates to right of appeal to the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory. 
I accept the statement of the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  that my attitude was at fault- it was a very elementary fault- by supporting the right of appeal without any guidelines being laid down as to what the appeal would be about. I am convinced by the Minister's explanation and I am confirmed in my view that he should not be tied, as the first two parts of the amendment do tie him, against any discretion that he might want to exercise in the cases which he detailed to the House. I would like to see some sort of appeal provision. I understand the problems that the Minister mentioned would arise if support were given to proposed new clause 4c in isolation. I assume that the Ombudsman Bill- I understand that it is to apply to both Territories- will cover complaints; I do not know. I am assuming, of course, that that legislation will be passed also. If it is passed and if some sort of ombudsman operates for the Northern Territory, am I right in assuming that he could deal with complaints from residents of the Northern Territory about this sort of legislation? 
I direct my question to you,  Mr President.  Was your approval requested, and given, as  President  of the Senate for the Federal Attorney-General to seek leave to intervene on behalf of the Australian Government to establish a case against  Senator Webster  in the High Court? 
I am regretful that there has been such agreement across the chamber on this amendment. I hope that for the last time  Senator Durack  has used the word 'independent' as he did in his explanation. I cannot see how independence applies now that this amendment has been accepted. With the sweeping powers that the Minister will have, obviously this Commission will be a political Commission. At the moment I am studying one of the reports of the Department of Housing and Construction. One of the notorious things about the Post Office is the charges made on it for work done by the Department of Housing and Construction. Almost invariably all repair works are charged at twice the normal tender rate that can be gained outside the Department of Housing and Construction. 
It is absolutely true and will stand study on a wide application. I understand that under the powers that the Opposition is happy to give the Minister, the Minister could direct the Commission to use the services of the Department of Housing and Construction if he so desired and if he believed it was necessary in the public interest to so give that direction. Then, of course, the independence of the Commission to choose the most economical means of spending many millions of dollars a year would be immediately undermined. That is the sort of power which the Opposition is giving the Minister. Obviously at the beginning, the Government never intended to have that power. I think it is a great pity that, in this early bright new age when we had an independent commission before this amendment was accepted, we are allowing the independence of the Commission to go by the board and instituting political control of the Commission's functions. I have given the Committee a very real instance. Any study of the full aspect of the work of the Department of Housing and Construction for the Post Office will reveal this as one of the glaring examples of inefficiency in Government work in Australia. I had hoped, and I still hope, that the new Commission will not continue to have work carried out by the Department of Housing and Construction. I hope the Commission will go outside the Department of Housing and Construction for its work. I understand, with this amendment, that that is probably very unlikely. Therefore it is with regret that I realise how slim my numbers are on this vote. 
I am happy to support  Senator Durack  s amendment. I cannot see why a little bit of competition in respect of efficiency may not very well be a good thing. After all the Government is using that argument strongly in connection with another of its current proposals, that relating to the insurance industry. The addition of one more operator in that industry is supposed to be a good thing in promoting efficiency. Whilst there is no direct parallel there is some relationship. 
-There is some analogy to an organisation which is operating more efficiently now than the general Post Office. No one will deny that argument. The Government is saying that the more efficient will merge with the less efficient. I am willing to go along with  Senator Durack  and to say: Let the more efficient hold the position it has earned. Its staff and direction has earned that position by skill and the application of energy and up-to-date techniques in the production of an extremely high morale in the Overseas Telecommunications Commission. Therefore I see no reason why we should hasten the move against the general wishes, as I see it, of the rank and file of that organisation despite what the PostmasterGeneral  (Senator Bishop)  said about his directors. 
Let it be proven that the reorganisation of the Post Office which we have been considering is successful. That has yet to be proven. We already have made alterations to the legislation in its passage through this House which I think lowers the chances of the new organisation finally coming up to the standard which we had all hoped for at the beginning. Let us see if the hopes we have for the new commissions are fulfilled. If they are fulfilled and if there is a matching standard of performance perhaps it then will be a good thing to approve the merger then. At this stage I believe  Senator Durack  is right in his amendment and we should support those who have earned their independence by their better efficiency and their dedication to their work. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. It relates to the somewhat confusing reports of the Government's decision to approve mining on Fraser Island. Was the Government's decision made on the basis that it had no authority to prevent the continuation of the mining, or was it made on the basis that the sand mining operation on Fraser Island is a desirable activity? 
I believe that the furnishing of the report of the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  in response to the demand from the Opposition for more information has been valuable in the sense that, as  Senator Cotton  and others have said, it has shown that the Treasurer has no intention of being frank with the Senate and has not supplied even a moderate range of expectations which- this appropriation is to meet. He ought to know those details. I believe that he has shown in this statement the attitude that he had adopted right through the administration of his portfolio, and that is that he continues to under-estimate the situation. He now admits that in his early days he simply had no idea of the responsibilities that he had to meet or the impact that inflation would have on the Australian community. What we are seeing here is a dramatic example of the inflation which the Government now tends to accept as a normal part of the Australian economic scene. I am not so worried about the lack of control or the lack of knowledge specifically involved in this appropriation. After all, in this chamber the Opposition has a majority while the Government prevails in the lower House, and as detailed an examination as one may make of probabilities for the next 4 years in Australian politics leads one to conclude that that situation will not be reversed in the sense of Labor having a majority in both Houses. If Labor is to be in office in the next 4 years then most certainly it will be faced with a counter-balancing effect in the Senate. I hope that it will not be in office for those 4 years, but that is a known factor, and therefore it is the Opposition Parties which have the final say as to whether the Government will put its full programs into effect. I am not so concerned as to the, I think, more mundane factor as to whether the Treasurer has been frank enough with this chamber. The testing time is yet to come for the Government, as to whether it will try to have the public accept a 20 per cent rate of inflation or thereabouts as a normal aspect of our economic life. 
One becomes very concerned when one hears reports that the Government is spending a huge sum of money on educating the Australian public as to the detail of the inflationary situation which exists. What would it tell the Australian public? Would it say that 20 per cent, 15 per cent or 10 per cent is a normal occurrence? This is what we need to be frightened of, especially when we have reports such as that which has been issued this morning by the Melbourne University's Institute of Applied Economic and Social 
Research, which is probably one of the most prestigious private economic groups in Australia and which predicts an inflation rate of about 20 per cent. What the Treasurer is doing is confirming this prediction by the huge subvention that he is seeking under this legislation. 
It may do, but what I am saying is that any government that tries to build into the economics of Australia an inflation rate of 20 per cent as a normal occurrence will not live politically, and I am quite sure that there would be a very great public demand for the removal from office of a government that maintained a 20 per cent inflation rate. This prediction is based on an inflation rate which existed last financial year and which was not much less than 20 per cent, so we are getting to a stage of permanence about this figure. But what the Treasurer's inadequate report clearly says to the Parliament is that finance shall follow our programs rather than our programs follow our financial resources. This is clearly the fact of the matter. The Treasurer simply says that additional funds are needed because prices are rising. That is about what he says and it was confirmed by interjection by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh). 
So the financing of government will follow government programs and it will in no way be governed apparently by the availability of finance to support those programs. So we are to see a deliberate policy by the Government to inflate currency to support its programs. What we do know, I suppose, if we look at this objectively is that this cannot go on. The Government is, therefore, faced with its greatest trial between now and the introduction of the next Budget in the Australian Parliament. It has been widely predicted that Ministers will fight Ministers and we can expect from yesterday's spectacle which continued on television programs last night that it will be of a most vicious nature as one Minister fights another for the retention and growth of his own programs, with the overall prospect of there being a cut, and a substantial cut, in the rate of growth of Government spending. 
Well, I am sure that no Government Minister would get up in this Parliament and say that he can double the deficit by continuing into next year's financial arrangements with the same verve in relation to expenditure that the Government applied this financial year. So we can expect that this is probably the last of the bland statements that this Parliament will get from the Treasurer and that from now on- that means the next sitting, several months hence when the Parliament resumes- we will see some real fact of management come back into Government finance in Australia. I can only say that the lesson for me at least, as one individual sitting in this place, is that so far the Minister has revealed in his statement that the programs will come first and financial management will come second, and the result has been the economic mess which  Senator Cotton  so rightly, I thought, referred to. 
Could I inquire as to the reason for all these apparently fairly significant corrections which have to be made at this stage? This Bill has received a good deal of attention already. Was it drawn in some  extreme hurry? The Bill has not been passed by the other House. There was no opportunity for that House to correct it. I take it that it has been read since it was drafted. It has been read again, and many mistakes have been found. It is a most abnormal number of corrections. I have had experience in the past of a House having to correct small details, but we are running into a fantasy scene. The whole sense of clauses is being altered. I wish to have some response from the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  as to why it is necessary. 
I thank the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  for his reply. I do not accept the analogy between the drafting of a Bill of this nature and the speech of a senator. If the draftsman had simply dictated it into a machine and had it printed, I would expect that he would have a lot of corrections to make. I hope that much more care was taken with this Bill than generally is given to speeches in the Senate. I think it is a most careless procedure and is somewhat reprehensible. In' other circumstances it would be a matter of great censure if we had to change a word such as 'debtor' to 'creditor' as we did in clause 104.I accept the Minister's reply because he has nothing better to offer. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 108 and 109- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 1 10 (Alteration in overseas services). 
I believe that the Opposition is not simply being cautious in this matter but is being prudent in making sure that this Bill is fully examined and that the Government's intent is fully examined. I think  Senator Greenwood  was wise to ask: What is the role of the Inter-State Commission? As a layman and not a lawyer, I must say that I am confused in trying to put together the second reading speech and the Bill. The second reading speech deals, I think almost exclusively, with transport. It lists the reasons why the Government has introduced the Bill. It says that the history of transport in Australia is studded with examples of lack of co-ordination. It goes on to mention, firstly, rail gauges; secondly, differing approaches to road networks in the various regions; thirdly, vehicle dimensions and axle loads; and, fourthly that there is no single entity to which reference can be made for positive assistance in the investigation of complaints. I suppose that is a fairly reasonable statement. But the Government, in bringing in a Bill to establish a commission where none exists now, very recklessly clothes the Commission with the powers which have been described quite fully by members of the Opposition. 
I think that if the Government were serious in asking for the co-operation of the Opposition in this matter it would have brought in powers which were limited to the purposes outlined in the second reading speech and if it were necessary to extend the powers later the Government would ask Parliament for that extension. That would seem to me to be a proper and responsible attitude to be taken by a government which is establishing something that does not exist.  Senator Everett  has argued for the fullest of powers and used a comparison with the defeat of the referendums in relation to prices and incomes. Therefore, as a very effective spokesman for the Government in the Senate, he has established his belief that the powers need to be as wide as they are stated. Whist I am the first to admit that he is a very persuasive  speaker,  he did not say, under quite respectful questioning by interjection, why the powers were needed. I invite him to examine his speech tomorrow and to see how inadequate his attempted answer was to the question why the Bill needs to be drawn in this form. The Government has outlined a limited role, but put into this chamber a Bill with extraordinary powers. It just does not make sense, as a practical move, for a government to ask the House in which it does not have a majority to accede to such legislation. It is just totally impractical, at least in a political sense. 
One must be convinced by arguments such as those which  Senator Wright  put to the Senate tonight and by those advanced by  Senator Greenwood  who has just completed his speech. One must be convinced that the Government has a case which needs to be answered. The Government has simply not answered it in the debate. Therefore I would have no alternative but to vote with the Opposition to defer the Bill. Whether the Opposition wants to defer it or to defeat it is a matter of political niceties, no doubt. In expressing support for the concept of an Inter-State Commission limited to a specific role, I guess it is reasonable to defer the Bill, although it is inviting the Government to run around the country and distort the argument, with the very powerful resources it now has in the media. That is another issue. It could have an effect in the intervening period before the Bill is discussed again. 
I was interested in the criticism of  Senator Wright's  statement about union matters and his desire to move amendments which would bring within the orbit of the investigations and the powers of the Commission actions of the unions in relation to transport matters in Australia. He emphasised the position in Tasmania, which he quite rightly ought to do as one of its representatives here. There are very real reasons for his doing so, and it is not anti-union to mention those matters. Apparently we are to be subjected week after week and day after day to vilification of anyone who runs a business or who uses capital in this community, but never are we to list the defects of the union system because we are then union baiters. The whole argument of control in this issue has been directed to those who will manage events, who will direct and use capital. The very mention of the most uncontrolled of all the power groups in Australia, the unions, and their great stranglehold on the transport links in Australia brings a rejection- we should not mention this; they should not be brought into it. 
What member does not know of the very great effects that unlawful or improper acts of unions have on transport? Australia has lost a valuable wheat market, to Chile, because of actions which I thought ought to come under a relevant clause in relation to overseas trade. The Government almost whispers its dismay at the fact that we have lost a $40m or $70m sale. I do not remember the exact figure, but it is a substantial multi-million dollar figure. As a result, the wheat is in Australia, unsold. Is that to be examined or not? What about the alleged payments which are made by motor vehicle distributors in Australia to the wharf labourers? The distributors cannot get their imported cars off the ships unless they pay, so it is said. If they do not pay, the cars are dumped. Any person who knows the imported motor vehicle trade will tell you that that happens in almost every major port in Australia. 
What about the loading of lucerne pellets in South Australia. I have personal knowledge of this matter. Payments were made privately by the owners to get the lucerne pellets loaded. They would not have been loaded otherwise. The newsprint industry in Tasmania is another example. I understand that there are current investigations in that area. That is just a smattering of many hundreds of items which have a direct effect not only on the actual supply of goods through our transport links but also on the user and the sender at each end of those links. Anyone who studies transport around the world, even superficially, knows the tremendous effects that these matters would have. I think  Senator Wright  should be complimented for being evenhanded in his approach to this Bill and for suggesting that it should be suitably amended to ensure that all aspects are investigated and that it is not left merely as a vehicle for attack by the Labor Party on capital. 
I cannot say much more because I do not know a lot more about it. The Government has not told us about it. I would have thought it was the Government's duty to justify this Bill. It has simply said, through its senior spokesmen, that it requires all the major powers which are outlined in this Bill, for a very limited usage. Quite frankly, I do not believe it. Ministers know, or they will know if they are in office long enough, they will know that their various duties will lead them to ask their advisers: 'What power do I have under my legislation? How far can I go under that legislation?' I remind the Senate of what happened under a previous Labor government, prior to 1949, and to the search through the legislative capacity of the Government of the day as to how far it could go. I submit that if the Inter-State Commission Bill were passed in its present form, at some stage in the future some Labor government would be saying, through its Ministers: 'How far can we go under this legislation?' We would see the extremes of the power applied for whatever purpose the administration of the day saw fit. It cannot be said that this Bill is justified by the arguments which have been presented to the Senate so far. Certainly the issues have been outlined far more clearly by the Opposition, and they simply have not been denied by the Government. Because I think it is a pretty difficult matter when the Government will not stand up to its legislation, I will heartily and enthusiastically support the Opposition's amendment. 
I have pleasure in supporting the motion and I am sorry that the Opposition will not support it at this stage. However, I do not believe that it is a matter of very great debate or really great interest at this time because I think its presentation to the Senate is premature. I forecast with the firmest of convictions that the redistribution proposals will pass the scrutiny of Parliament before the next House of Representatives election. I honestly and earnestly believe that the next House of Representatives elections will be held under this proposed redistribution which we are considering now. All that will happen in political terms is that the composition of the Senate which is now 60 members and which will be 64 members after the next Senate election, will alter and a majority in this place, which will be added to by my Party, will provide a free passage for these redistribution proposals when they are presented to the Senate after 1 July 1976. Therefore, I do not think there is any need to engender heat in this debate. I think this is a premature presentation in the sense of political power and I think that the power structure will shift away from the Opposition in the Senate next year to a third middle group which will ensure that electoral justice is provided for all Australians. There is no need for me to go into detail about that. I am sure that  Senator Withers  will find out more about that as he studies the electoral scene in Australia. 
It is an intriguing exercise to go through  Senator Withers'  speeches to try to find any matter of principle upon which he argues, because principle is entirely absent.  His  view of electoral distribution is based on the question: Who will win? It is not based on a consideration of whether the distribution is just or provides electoral equality for the electors of Australia. I noticed with rather humourous observation that he continued today his many arguments about electoral redistributions on the basis that someone might win under the system that is proposed, not on the basis of whether it is just. He substantiated his argument by a most peculiar thesis which is that as long as the result overall in Australia produces a percentage of votes for a party in accordance with the general overall Australian content of Liberal Party, Labor Party, National Country Party or other voters, it is a just scheme. So by  Senator Withers'  reasoning if there were a 50 per cent, 70 per cent or 100 per cent variation between one seat and another it would not matter at all as long as the overall result for the whole of Australia produced a percentage of members in either House consistent with the electoral support across Australia. That is the basic principle, if there is a principle, that  Senator Withers  uses. 
Of course, that argument is most objectionable to people outside the Parliament and it is no wonder that the Liberal Party is subject to so much quite effective criticism on this one issue. I have had a lot to say about this matter in the past and I do not think there is any need to repeat it with any vehemence or heat because I think both sides have fully stated their cases on the question of whether there ought to be the fullest extension of the franchise. I do not think much will be gained by simply repeating all those arguments which have been used in previous times. However, I would like to say that I think it is rather sad that the Liberal Party again takes this view and is subject to the type of editorial which appeared today in the Melbourne 'Age', which speaks for most Australians on electoral reform. My movement in what are supposed to be conservative electorates in this community leads me to believe that an overwhelming number of Australians do approve of electoral equality. It is a great sadness to me that my general side of politics puts itself into such an area of criticism, which can be so simply justified. Those of us who want equality shudder at the type of speech that  Senator Withers  has made to the Senate. 
There is no doubt that the National Country Party is the victor as a result of this attitude. I do not blame it. The National Country Party is a sectional party. As much as it may claim to be a national country party and set out to go into the cities, we know that it is a sectional party and that it represents sectional views. I do not blame it; nor do I say in a sense that it is wrong for it to hold those views. Of course it can hold those views. I do not think it is nearly as false in holding those views as is the Liberal Party. After all, the Liberal Party is supposed to be a liberal party to cover all sections of this community. It does not make out that it is a sectional party and therefore it places itself in a much more difficult position in relation to electoral reform than does the National Country Party, which is expected to take the view that it takes. This creates further difficulty for my side of politics. 
I have had some very recent and real experience in relation to supposedly conservative areas of the countryside and their views on electoral matters. The seat which I resigned in South Australia to come into the Senate was the seat of Goyder which has always been considered to be one of the most stable, solid and conservative of country areas in South Australia. It is a lesson to all of those who want to know what the community thinks about electoral reform to study the by-election which was held last year in that seat, and to study the policies which the parties put openly and vigorously to that community. The electoral community of Goyder, which consists of slightly fewer than 10 000 electors, was subject to the canvassing of 30 members of Parliament from the Liberal Country League as it then was, from 3 members of Parliament from the Liberal Movement and from a considerable number of interstate visitors from the then Australian Country Party, who were very pleasant and personable people to meet in the field. Whilst it was a vigorous campaign it was not unpleasant in that way. 
The policies were put extremely vigorously and at the large meetings which were held in that district our candidate had to face a question which was quite obviously deliberately put by his opponent. The question was: Where do you stand on electoral reform?  His  answer was quite clear: I stand as a candidate for the Liberal Movement and my party stands on the platform of one vote one value. This was highlighted by our opponents of the then Liberal Country League which represents the view of  Senator Withers  that there should not be electoral equality between the country and the city and that some additional weighting and value ought to be given to country votes. The results speak for themselves. I reiterate that it was one of the most intensive campaigns that South Australia has seen and the party standing for one vote one value received 46 per cent of the votes in the first count and the then Liberal Country League received 29 per cent of the vote. That is an extremely valuable lesson and I wish that my side of politics would understand that a vast majority of its own backers and voters approve overwhelmingly the principle of electoral equality. Therefore, the Opposition here speaks for a very small section of the Australian community today. It saddens me to think that it does. 
I take the matter of Goyder a little further. Goyder has become in South Australia the first real test of electoral equality. It is a black mark against the new Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, that he should now lead a party in this manner. I notice that he is taking this electoral fight right back into South Australia by going to the electorate of Goyder to help the candidate who is standing in the State election for the Liberal Party. In so doing he is immediately involving himself in the most sensitive electoral State in Australia for electoral reform and deliberately and deeply involving himself in the matter of electoral equality, plus or minus. I believe that he is going to a district of which he ought to take note. On the trip that he will make to Goyder he ought to ask very carefully what the public believes about this matter, because I am quite happy to debate this question of electoral reform before the public of South Australia in any of the media of South Australia that  Senator Withers  may care to choose. 
I challenge also the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, to select at his convenience any of the media in South Australia and I will debate with him before as many members of the public as we can get to listen the question of electoral equality in South Australia, which of course has exhibited in the past the most disgraceful form of electoral inequality that Australia has known. I hope that either one of those gentlemen will accept the challenge.  Senator Withers  has had a lot to say here about who will win in certain circumstances. He has drawn attention to various small defects which he believes exist in the system. This would be denied in any overall view of the redistribution, which most experts believe is the fairest that Australia has seen. I hope that one of those gentlemen-  Senator Withers  or  Mr Malcolm  Fraser- will accept my challenge. I hope that  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, on his visit to Goyder in South Australia in support of a candidate who does not believe in electoral equality, will accept the challenge. He is involving himself in the test bed of electoral questions in visiting a place which is the very origin of change in South Australia, and I believe he ought to accept the public challenge, front up and tell the public of South Australia, and through that confrontation the whole of Australia, why he would deny to some people the rights that others may have. I hope that consideration of these electoral Bills will prompt the Opposition to think deeply about that challenge. The opinion of everyone to whom I have spoken in South Australia about this specific matter of the redistribution in South Australia is that it is the fairest possible redistribution which could have been devised. 
I can only go back to the reasons  Senator Withers  has given for opposing the total distribution for all of Australia. He sees certain values that may come from it in party terms. He did not deal with the matter of the rights of electors, which I think is the paramount factor in a distribution.  Senator Withers  referred to my problems in the past in South Australia. In  Senator Withers  ' opinion, the greatest sin that I committed was to put my name to a redistribution which led to the defeat of the government which I happened to lead at that time. That is the standard of argument that  Senator Withers  adopts and that is the reason why I challenge him and his Leader to debate openly and freely with me in South Australia the question of electoral reform so that he can defend the system which he chooses, which suppresses some people 's rights in relation to their voting capacity in Australia. I agree fully with the editorial which appeared in the 'Age' this morning and I hope that Liberals take note of it. I do not think that this is a matter for any heat and that is why on this occasion I have not set out to debate this issue at any length. I put it to the Senate that after the next Senate election, which will be effective from 1 July next year, this Bill will be passed, and members of the House of Representatives had better prepare themselves for the prospect of fighting the next federal election on the boundaries which we are now considering. 
I shall comment only briefly. The amendment proposes a rather dramatic alteration to the numbers on the Curriculum Development Centre Council. From my very quick count there will be a minimum of 16 members instead of a minimum of 1 1 members as proposed in the Bill. I think that those figures are right, although I may be one out. That seems to me to greatly upset any balance on the Council. Surely the people who framed the constituent parts of the Council must have thought carefully about some form of a balance. Surely what is proposed in the amendment must throw that balance, if it was a consideration, right out the window. I cannot imagine that the numbers on the Council were arrived at in a totally haphazard manner. Therefore, it seems to me that to appoint to the Council 6 representatives from the States- one from each State- is to make the Council a State body. That is the way it seems to me if the amendment is looked at in that light. I hope that it would not be looked at in that light. But the State Premiers themselves are turning these sorts of relationships into that area of conflict. 
The State Premiers have appointed Ministers to oversee Commonwealth activities, and I am sure that one of the jobs of those Ministers would be to look at this sort of legislation. If they did not do that they would not be fulfilling their function. Therefore, it is not a matter of academic interest but a fact that some State Premiers have set up a ministerial responsibility to oversee Commonwealth activities. Although I cannot recall all the details, recently the New South Wales Premier refused a request for someone within the New South Wales Public Service to be part of some arrangement with the Commonwealth. In the light of the direct and formalised antagonisms which exist, it seems to me that I cannot take the risk of approving of it as one person voting for the amendment. It proposes such a dramatic alteration. If it were a question of adding one member to the Council or something like that it would be a different matter, but it seems to me that what is proposed in the amendment will turn upside down any balance on the Council. I should like to hear  Senator Guilfoyle  on that point. 
-Thank you,  Mr President.  I thank the Senate for its courtesy. I wish to say only a few brief words about this matter. I do not want to inject any heat into the debate at this stage. I would just like to say that I am disappointed that the Government is not supporting my amendment because I believe that if the amendment is defeated it will prevent the continuation of the pursuit of a new turn of events in relation to the pecuniary interests of members of Parliament. I feel that the matters raised by the Webster case have been matters of some principle. Because of the factors which prevented the Joint Committee on Pecuniary Interests of Members of the Parliament from hearing further evidence, those events cannot therefore be properly developed before the Committee, and I am sorry about that. I also believe that other members of the Parliament are not treated in the same way as  Senator Webster  has been treated. 
I remind  Senator Withers  that whatever the judicial committee does it will not be subject to standing order 386 of the Senate or the comparable standing order of the House of Representatives. Its treatment of any comparable matter would be different from that provided under those Standing Orders. Therefore I still maintain my own support for the amendment which I have moved. However, the curtailment of the taking of evidence by the Committee will in no way prejudice, I believe, the examination of other members of the Parliament who may have pecuniary interests. The matter of  Senator Webster  is proceeding and, I believe, proceeding satisfactorily Therefore, whilst I regret this matter and whilst I would like to see the Committee pursue the matters of principle raised I will pursue my belief by supporting my amendment in a vote of the House. I do believe that comparable treatment will be achieved and therefore justice will not be denied, although I would like it to be pursued in the manner provided by the amendment. 
The ayes have it. 
Amendments negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the variation of the plan of layout of the city of Canberra and its environs dated 8 May 1975 made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910-1973 and tabled in the Senate on 14 May 1975 be disallowed. 
I ask the Minister for the Media: In view of the announced intention of the Department of Environment to proceed with 2-minute radio commercials to inform the public about environmental issues, and the subsequent statement by a representative of private industry that it is a most unusual length of advertisement which apparently has not been available previously to private advertisers, is the Australian Broadcasting Control Board giving special consideration to the Government to enable it to broadcast radio advertisements of a most unusual length which is not available to private industry? 
I notice in paragraph (a) (i) of the definition of trade union training' the words 'objectives of trade unions', as has been mentioned by  Senator Wright  and by the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  in reply. I would like to know whether the training refers to the political objective of a union which, of course, is regarded as a legitimate objective of unions themselves. They affiliate with political parties, in particular and most often the Labor Party, and each member pays certain fees. As I understand it, the Labor Party then regards them as members of the Labor Party for voting purposes. So I do not think one argues that there is no political objective in most unions in Australia and as the objectives are quite baldly stated does that then encompass, as I take it to be, political objectives as there is no gradation of objectives in the definition? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. What is the real significance, other than to avoid confusion with the names of other insurance offices in Australia, of the change by the Government of the name of the Australian Government Insurance Office to the Australian Government Insurance Corporation? 
I believe the Opposition amendment has merit in that it simply takes away what I am sure they are saying could be used as an excuse and it does not in any way affect the operation of the Bill, as the last amendment will drastically affect it. I think this is matter of improving the co-operation already worked into the Bill and required of the Commission. For that reason, I think it ought to be supported. 
It seems to me that we are in many ways approaching this matter with a very starry-eyed view which is not taking into account the realities of power which travel with the trade union movement. The trade union movement is the most powerful entity in the community. It is far more powerful than governments and it can dictate government policy at will. There are outstanding matters in the community at the moment in which the Government is unable to be effective at all. That point has been brought up previously in debates in this chamber. An example of such an incident which is quite easily identifiable and not arguable involves a $40m contract of wheat destined for Chile which it is the policy of the Government to have shipped and which it is the policy of the respective unions not to have shipped. The union view prevails and the Government is utterly powerless to intervene or to act in any way to have done what the Australian community wants done in relation to this very important economic matter. So, without question, we are talking about the somewhat ludicrous position of educating the most powerful group in the community. We, the weaker, are about to set up an authority to educate the stronger. 
I am sure that  Senator Georges  would argue that my premise is wrong because he is a product of the very movement we are about to educate.  Senator Georges  is a part of the parliamentary wing of the industrial movement. I am sure that he would speak on its behalf and defend it at any time. I shall quote for  Senator Georges  a statement made by  Mr Wells,  who is a member of Parliament in South Australia, who was  President  of the South Australian Trades and Labour Council, and who is a man for whom I may say I have a tremendous respect and with whom I have some personal friendship. 
Yes. At the time he was President of the South Australian Trades and Labor Council and he was then the member for the seat of Florey in the South Australian Parliament. He still holds that seat. He made this statement in the House of Assembly in July 1971: 
Of course, the trade union movement is a fundamental pan of the ALP. However, some Opposition members seem to be under the impression that we as members of the political wing of the ALP are ashamed to admit that the unions are a fundamental part of the Party. Every member knows that the political wing of the Party was born of the trade union movement and will retain its ties for as long as the Party exists. 
I thought  Senator Georges  did because he seemed to make protesting remarks when I referred to that very point at the beginning of my address. I congratulate  Mr Wells  M.P. for the forthright honesty for which he is known. He makes no pretence. My second point is that not only are we setting up a Trade Union Authority Act to assist in the training of trade union personnel, we are also setting about training the most powerful group of persons in the community and the parent of the Australian Labor Party. Let us get this in context. Therefore we find a very contradictory situation. We want to improve those people who can say to this community: 'We are the bosses'. They are the bosses. They are the most powerful group within us and of us. This was borne out very neatly in an article reprinted in 'Nation Review' of last week. The article was written by Paul Johnson. At the head of the article it says: 
Paul Johnson is regarded as one -of Britain's leading left wing intellectuals. Last week this article appeared in the New Statesman. We reprint it in full because we believe his remarks bear relevance to the present situation in Australia. 
A study of this article will show that it is extremely well written from a left wing point of view, as the author's credentials indicate, and it draws some rather disturbing parallels with what is happening in Australia. I would like to quote from the article for a short while, if I may, because it refers to the responsibilities of trade unions, a subject which I think is very relevant.  Senator Wright  rightly introduced this subject at the beginning of the debate. The author said: 
Socialism expresses the essential unit and common humanity of society- our sisterhood, our brotherhood. That is why it is inseparable from democracy and why, to be true to itself, it must work through a government responsible to a universally elected assembly. That is where all the essential decisions which affect the life of the community must be taken, and nowhere else. Any institution in a society which challenges this principle cannot be a socialist institution; indeed, it must be an ami socialist one. 
He went on to say: 
Now let us look at the trade unions. A trade union does not necessarily have anything to do with political morality. It is simply a pragmatic arrangement. It grew up within the capitalist system as a defence mechanism. 
Further on he said: 
Once the vote was secured, and the road to socialism lay open, the riot and the strike ceased to be the only weapons, and could be seen for what they were: methods socially destructive by their very nature, and therefore anti socialist. 
If  Senator Georges  listens he will find that this gentleman came to a well founded conclusion. He went on to say: 
But this is not what has happened. The unions have refused to recognise the limits of their historical role. They have not only rejected the idea of a progressive abdication, and the shift of their social and economic function to the political process, but they have flatly declined to allow the smallest diminution of their power to press the sectional interests they represent. 
Indeed they have steadily, ruthlessly and indiscriminately sought to increase that power. And in recent years, and in particular in the last S years, they have exhausted or beaten down any opposition and have finally succeeded in making themselves the arbiters of the British economy. 
I think that anyone reading in the Press of the difficulties of the economy in Britain would not deny the simple statement that that is. I quote further from relevant parts of this article. The author said: 
Dazed and bewildered, - 
The author is referring to the unions-  they are like medieval peasants who have burnt down the lord's manor. What next? They have no idea, since they did not think ahead to this sort of situation, and indeed are not equipped by function or experience to embark on positive or constructive thinking. That is not their job. 
Here we come to the heart of the matter. The trade union is a product of 19th century capitalism, lt is part of that system. Against powerful, highly-organised and ruthless capitalist forces, it had an essential, even noble part to play. But when those forces are disarmed; when they are in headlong retreat- indeed howling for mercy- the union has no function to perform. The trade union movement may be dressed up with economic committees and so forth; but its only real purpose is to bargain for better wages within an all-powerful capitalist system. 
The British trade union movement has now been taken out of that context and placed in an entirely new one. Yet it is still carrying on doing the only thing it knows how to do- ask for higher wages. As it has beaten all its opponents, as it is for all practical purposes the state, it naturally gets them. A subject government prints the money, and the result is inflation on an unprecedented scale. 
Is that not a parallel with what is happening in Australia? I go back to that one instance of $40m of overseas funds that cannot flow through producers, through the suppliers, through the multiplier effects in the Australian community because one union says it shall not. This Government is powerless to act in defence of the general community. This is not a parallel really; it is an exact description of what is happening in Australia. The author went on to say: 
British trade unionism has thus become a formula for national misery. For, mark you, trade unionists have no means of enjoying the spoils they secure. The trade union movement is not a unity. It has no common interest, lt is merely an amalgamation of sectional interests. And in an inflationary situation, where real wealth is static or, in our case, actually declining fast, unions demanding higher wages are simply competing against each other. Any union which does succeed, albeit temporarily as a rule, in raising its real living standards is and must be doing so at the expense of the community. 
The author later said: 
Powerful mcn who conspire together to squeeze the community are gangsters. Let us identify them as such. 
Further on he said: 
The logic, indeed, is that the most powerful must get the most money all along the line. This is not socialism. It has much more in common with capitalism. 
I will not burden the Senate with much more of what I think are the excellent writings of a left wing intellectual but in a part of his article which I do not intend to quote he says that anyone who criticises the union movement is subject to the utmost vilification. This is one of the things which the union movement reserves to itself - that it must not be criticised. Everyone knows of the victimisation incurred by those within the union movement who criticise their own union structure. I can give chapter and verse, and individual names in private if honourable senators want me to, on this type of victimisation. This author went on to say: 
Since the war, management talent has tended to drift increasingly to the financial sector, where there are no industrial unions and where the able can devote themselves to more creative and purposeful work. Hence the relative strength of Britain's financial sector. 
In industry, where the unions are strong and active, there is bad management. Where good management is to bc found, and that is increasingly rare, it usually coincides with inactive or acquiescent (or highly intelligent) trade unions. 
Further on the author said: 
Men ought to be judged by their record, and their record is contemptible. Smug and self-assured, oblivious of any criticism, they have encouraged British industrial workers in habits and attitudes, in rules and procedures, in illusions and fantasies, which have turned the British working class into the coolies of the western world, and Britain into a stinking, bankrupt industrial slum. 
Further on he said: 
With union leaders asking for wage increases, immediately, of up to 70 per cent, and deaf to threats or entreaties, the magnitude of the inflation involved is outside the experience of anyone in Britain, or indeed anyone in a modern industrial economy. 
The  President  or the  Chairman  of Committees may call the attention of the Senate or the Committee, as the case may be, to continued irrelevance or tedious repetition, and may direct a  Senator to  discontinue his speech: 
Provided that such  Senator shall  have the right to require that the Question whether he be further heard be put, and thereupon such Question shall be put without Debate. 
I am raising a point of order on the question of the relevance of the contribution that has been made by  Senator Steele  Hall. I make no apology for raising the point of order. I think this Senate has been extremely tolerant. The Bill being debated before the Senate at the moment is entitled 'A Bill for an Act to establish an Australian trade union training authority and for purposes connected therewith' and I cannot for the life of me in the most charitable way connect to this debate the contribution that  Senator Steele  Hall is making. As I have said, this debate involves a Bill for an Act to establish a trade union training authority. I would ask you to so rule. 
-Mr Acting  Deputy President,  if I could - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator McAuliffe)-  Is it the point of order raised by  Senator Brown? 
No  Senator shall  digress from the subject-matter of any Question under discussion; 
In fairness to  Senator Wright,  against whom I raised a point of order previously without quoting the relevant standing order, I now draw your attention to standing order 419 as well as 421. For the last 5 or 6 minutes the honourable senator has not dealt with the subject matter of the Bill before us. I think  Senator Steele  Hall ought to be advised that he should return to the Bill in question. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, I would like to speak to that point of order. I respectfully draw your attention to page 2 of the Bill and to paragraph (b) of the definition of trade union training which states:  educational, technical and practical training for members of trade unions in any other fields approved by the Australian Council. 
As those areas have not been laid down I assume one must take them in their widest form. However, I believe that my description of the objectives of trade unionism in Britain as translated in a practical way is relevant to the tightest scrutiny and interpretation of the Bill. Therefore, I suggest that, whilst it may be tedious of me to use part of the half hour that is allocated to me in describing my view on this, I believe it is entirely relevant. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator McAuliffe)-  I have been asked to rule.  Senator Brown  has raised a point of order under standing order 42 1 , which states: 
The  President  or the  Chairman  of Committees may call the attention of the Senate or Committee, as the case may be, to continued irrelevance or tedious repetition, and may direct the  Senator to  discontinue his speech. 
I am not going to uphold the point of order, although it is a very hairline decision, because  Senator Steele  Hall himself admitted that he may have been tedious.  Senator Georges,  supporting  Senator Brown  on the point of order raised under standing order 421, quoted standing order 419, which I feel is more relevant and which states: 
No  Senator shall  digress from the subject-matter of any Question under discussion: 
The Bill under discussion is known to everybody.  Senator Wright  has supported  Senator Steele  Hall and endeavoured to protect him by saying that he is well within the provisions of the Standing Orders. I am not going to uphold the point raised under either standing order but I am going to make an earnest appeal to  Senator Steele  Hall, particularly knowing his background and experience, to link his remarks, which are no doubt cutting and proving effective, to the Bill that is before the Senate. In that way I think we will be able to get on with the business. 
-Thank you very much,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I accept your mild reproof and thank you for your ruling. I admit that I have probably used a sledge hammer to crack a nut, but I think I have in fact proved the point that the objectives of trade unions as translated into practical terms in Britain are simply to hold the British economy to ransom. They have successfully done this and of course have created, as the writer has said, what is now an industrial slum. That is parallel to Australia because we have very many instances here to which we can refer of similar industrial action. That is one factor which I believe stands proven. 
I would now like to refer to a statement which was published yesterday in South Australia about the objectives of the union movement in our State. These objectives are to be placed before the Australian Labor Party Convention to be held in Adelaide next month. I will not be tedious or repetitious in quoting these matters but hopefully will be swift about it. However, I think it is essential to quote them in order to look at the objectives in Australia. We have dealt with Britain. In South Australia, about which I do know something, the following statement has been published: 
Among the most controversial moves are proposals to put the onus on employers to justify dismissals and to give the workers and unions in particular industries one-third representation at board level. 
I ask senators to realise that this is going before the ALP Convention next month and that is one of the objectives. 
-No, it will be a political objective of the Dunstan Government in South Australia translated through the union movement. 
If honourable senators opposite do not approve of it let them get up and say so. Their one defence seems to be that it has not proceeded through the formalities yet. If that is their defence, let them get up and say it is wrong. But if that is the only thing they have- that it has not gone through the formalities but that it is right- they will be confirming what I am saying. I am saying it is the objective of the general union movement in South Australia to force union participation to a very significant level in management. 
-This is one thing I do not approve of and it is one thing that is greatly demoralising the industrial sector in South Australia and is leading to the British situation. This is the very point I make. So in looking at the objectives of the trade unions, we can say without fear of contradiction that they are power objectives. Trade unions are about power as political parties are about power. One must therefore ask what will happen in some time to come when the Council has had experience and has been subject no doubt to a great deal of union influence. Look at the Council structure; in what field will it be training union management and personnel? What Will be its objectives then? I suspect that we may some day in the future regret this Bill in its present form unless it is tied to some democratic principles because we seem to be looking at it and saying that we aU admit there are misuses in unions and that there are malfunctions involving the simple matter of dishonesty. 
I have a particular case to which I referred very extensively in the South Australian Parliament and which caused a great deal of trouble when it was reported outside the Parliament involving writs and damages. But there is that one notable case that can be proven in South Australia in relation to embezzlement and so forth at that level. We can look at that level if we like and say that we want to improve the business management of unions. We can look at the economy in general and we can say that the personnel of the union movement should know more about economics, as management should know more about economics. We can say that that is a necessary function. Who would disagree with that? No one here would disagree with that. If we are looking at this Bill and thinking that out of it will come the cure-all and a recognition of all the economic realities in this community and that within 10 years or whatever time we like to put upon it we will have a sane and sensible union approach to the economy and to its management and to the acceptance of government decisions, we will be sadly mistaken. Unless the Authority is allied to the application of democratic principles in the operations of unions it will be futile and it wil simply educate people in how to use or misuse power more effectively than it is used or misused now. We should not be too starry-eyed about this proposal. 
There is little more I can say. In the Authority's limited field, I hope it does some good. This is one more instance of the Government's spending money it does not have, if we want to come down to that level. I do not know what this Authority will cost; but we do know that, whatever it will cost, the Government will not have the money this year or next year. It will print the money. That is just one aspect of the Bill. But the Government is doing that in regard to nearly every new proposal it makes at the moment; so why antagonise this one? I suppose that is a fair sort of attitude. Let us say that we will pass the legislation and approve the expenditure of money to set up the Authority. Then we have to look at what it will achieve. I hope that it will achieve more than I think it will achieve. I have no illusions, however, that it will take the bitterness out of the class warfare which exists between trade unions and management. This is a reality and is expressed in many ways on every day of the week throughout the various areas of conflict. 
I say this quite firmly: Unless we pin our hopes on the enforcement of democratic procedures in the union movement we will be following a very weak star in the future. We must concentrate on the democratic procedures which elect us to this Parliament and have them applied to the union movement. Any other course is simply a palliative and is simply the easier course. It is easy for the Senate and the Parliament to express pleasant sentiments and to say: 'Let us educate everyone; let us draw everyone to the common goal of greater knowledge and understanding of the community and the economy'. How hard it is to say to the most powerful groups, the political parents of honourable senators opposite: 'You will be democratic'. That is too hard for this Parliament. Let me say in all fairness that it has been too hard for this side of the Senate as well as too hard for that side of the Senate. It is the hardest thing to say, and that is why we do not tackle the problem. That is why we take the easy, least effective way and take the minimal action instead of the maximum action that we require. 
I should like to have seen some way that this training could be related to the personnel of unions which use democratic principles and can show that in their articles and the election of their officers they use democratic procedures. I do not think we should go about offering assistance and improvement to the minority of union personnel- I hope they are in a minority- who believe in strong arm tactics, who use dictatorial methods and flout the opinions of the general membership and who approve of victimisation of that membership when it tries to stand up. I do not think we should try to offer those people the assistance offered in this Bill. I am quite sure that we ought to have a qualification that in some way those people who come from the unions which are not so much in the news and which are democratic get the approval of this Parliament and the finance that will be expended under this Bill to improve their organisations. 
We are not talking about the Country Party. We hear enough about the Country Party from honourable senators opposite. What honourable senators opposite do not like to hear is any criticism of their own parent organisations. 
-Of course it is. It is the same old story year after year. Anyone who criticises the most powerful group for the most blatant misuse of power in this community is called a union basher. It does not dismay me and it never will. I conclude by saying this: We are following a false road in thinking that education will do what only the enforcement of democratic principles finally will do for the Australian trade union movement and the decent Australian trade unionist who is so subject to the strong arm tactics of union personnel today. 
I am impressed by  Senator Everett's  argument. It seems to me that if a person is to have the rank, status and precedence, the only way we are to know about it, unless we look up this Bill, is by what he is called. I see some advantage in that. 
-That could be so. I have the utmost respect for the Grants Commission. If in any way we can give the slightest encouragement to highly qualified judicial people to come to the Commission, I do not think it should be a bar to their accepting the position if they do put some store by their designation. Quite frankly, it would save a lot of confusion if the wording of the Bill is left as it is. Then people might realise, simply by how the presiding officer is addressed, that the presiding officer does have the rank, status and precedence as outlined in the Bill. I am impressed by  Senator Everett's  explanation and will vote accordingly. 
Question put: 
That the word proposed to be left out  (Senator Carrick's  amendment) be left out. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for the Media. I refer again to my previous question concerning the intention of the Department of Environment to place advertisments of up to 2 minutes duration with commercial radio stations. I ask whether any pressure will be placed on private stations to accept the commercials if they refuse to do so in the first instance on the basis that they do not suit their programming. 
I do not support the move to defer this legislation. I believe it is a sign of weakness on the part of the Opposition that it should require a deferment. It seems to me to be a pretty peculiar appreciation of Liberal principles to say that the Opposition needs 3 more months to decide whether or not it should support the establishment of the Australian Government Insurance Corporation. I find that a phenomenal proposition. I should have thought that by examining the platform and principles of the Liberal Party one could find, the principle as soon as one turned a leaf of the relevant document. Why on earth we need to go into this extended area of risk, because that is what is it, I do not know other than to say that apparently the Liberal Party sees this move as a closer step towards a possible election and there may be some possible use of the insurance industry as an ally in such an election. I can see no other reason, because ideologically it should be as plain as the paper on which the Bill is printed. 
I cannot support a deferment of this legislation. I would like to see the debate proceed and I would like to see the Bill voted out of this place, at the earliest opportunity. I must say that I have not yet seen, in the very few statements of any coherence, that the Opposition has made on this publicly any justification for the Opposition's wanting to defer this debate- none.  Senator Cotton  gave none except to admit that perhaps he might want an Australian Government Insurance Corporation. Why else would he want to defer the Bill if he does not want such a corporation? Good heavens, if he knows he does not want it he could say so here this week. One can only assume that he might want a Government insurance corporation. There is no other construction that one can put on his remarks. He needs a long time to look at this to decide  whether or not we need one further experiment  by this Government. All I can say is that I must be a much more simple Liberal; I do not need to assess the situation. 
I have taken note of the 50 000 electors to whom  Senator Cotton  has referred and who signed petitions on this subject. I have taken note of the general attitude of the insurance industry in South Australia, which was the last State to establish a State government insurance office, and quite frankly I can see no benefit in such a step. In fact, when a State government insurance office was set up in my own State that State had some of the lowest insurance rates in Australia. As I said, it was the last State to establish such an office and its establishment was a contradiction. 
I do not think we need argue in any detail about this matter. It is quite a simple matter. The Government is following its principles which are written out quite clearly, and I have often complimented the Labor Party upon its honesty in this respect. We can expect, if this Government should stay in office for any length of time, to find a considerable number of parallel Bills making further incursions into the private industrial and commercial sector of Australia. It is a common factor. The setting up of the Australian Wool Corporation included new moves which allowed new ventures of a semi-socialistic nature into wool processing and manufacture. In every piece of legislation we are to deal with under the Australian Labor Government it will quite honestly and openly move into fields which in the past our side has traditionally been able to reject quite easily because of its basic ideology; but apparently our ideology is failing us and we cannot see clearly that the Australian Government Insurance Corporation is not needed. 
The Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  has praised the operations of State government insurance offices. If we have State government insurance offices why do we need a Commonwealth office to compete with them? Why should we need a seventh office in Australia if there are already six and in some States- I think the Minister said- 2 offices offering a full range of services? We do not need another to compete with existing State government offices. The Minister has referred to crop insurance as though that is some new find in some far-flung country. He would know that that is a normal item in insurance, but he seems to dwell on disaster insurance, on insurance of an uneconomic nature. If there is going to be insurance of an uneconomic nature there is no need for him to say that he must have the profits of legitimate insurance. Surely he does not contend that the Government or any other government does not take the major share of any company profits in Australia. He knows full well, as the South Australian Premier said some years ago, there was no need to go into the business of nationalisation any further because the government of the day was already the largest shareholder in respect of the profit of any company in Australia. 
The Minister speaks quite openly about this matter but does not openly say that it is the Government's intention to add to its power to direct the investment funds which are at present accumulated privately in this country. It is all very well for him to point to a $ 1 m capitalisation and a small-scale competitive operation. That may be his attitude. If it is, I compliment him; but the fact is that we are referring to and considering legislation which will confer power which can be used by a Minister other than the present one and by a government other than the present one. The ability to adjust simply in one field the taxation rates and concessions, which the Minister referred to in a semi-critical fashion when he spoke of the great advantages that he says insurance companies enjoy in relation to taxation concessions for life assurance, would allow a government of the future to sway and to force assurance towards the Government Insurance Corporation. There would be no end to the ability of a government with different intentions to direct and to coerce private assurance and insurance towards its office at some future date. 
There has been a pretty direct attack on mutual organisations by this Government and by the Minister. Some pretty scathing remarks have been made about funds and organisations which are totally mutual, which I thought was something to be commended but perhaps is to be derided by this present Minister who states that they have grown on the taxation concessions provided by governments. I should have thought that as they are mutual the benefit was the individual policy holder's benefit and it was not to be taken to be the benefit of some large monopolistic commercial enterprise. If the Minister were to bring out the figures I think he would find that the overwhelming part of that benefit has been absorbed either in individual benefits to the taxpayers and the policy holders or to the people employed in the mutual funds in conducting that enterprise as a proper and legitimate employment opportunity which will be no different in a sense from any government insurance corporation activity. I have not done a great deal of research into the Minister's speech. 
I do not have to because the Minister has not justified, in all the answers he has given in the Senate, the establishment of this office- the seventh ' government insurance office in Australia. The Opposition has given no reason for deferring this Bill and not defeating it this week. For that reason I do not intend to vote for a deferment. 
I would not have thought that  Senator Greenwood  would be proud of the number of times that his Party has rejected the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill, because he has obviously demonstrated that the Opposition has stopped evolving and forming industrial policy. He said: We shall continue to stand'. The Opposition stands at a particular point and there shall be no further evolvement of useful industrial policy on the very matters that he has outlined as being faulty in this Bill.  Senator Greenwood  knows full well that the answer to the great power blocs in this community and the power wielded by the unions, who are responsible at the moment to no one but an elite few, will be provided not by the Labor Party but by the Liberal Party. It is about time that the Liberal Party did something about it, especially when it is confronted with a Bill which is subject to amendments which the Liberal Party may propose in this House. 
This is the third time in my short year in this place that I have been confronted with the provisions of this Bill. I questioned the Opposition about this matter when the Bill first came before the Senate. The Minister has indicated when that was; I think it was last November. When I questioned the Opposition at that time its answer to the question of amending the Bill and making it a most useful form of evolving industrial policy was that it was not ready, that it needed four or five months, and now it is June. 
I am not going to - 
I am not willing to divulge confidences. If the honourable senator wants me to tell him, I will do so. It was his Leader. The Leader of the Opposition told me today. Does the honourable senator want me to go further? I can name others. If I am forced into the position of giving names, I will do so. So 

 Senator Greenwood has forced me to name his Leader and his Leader is now guilty of not evolving policy. What I am saying is that the Opposition is at a standstill in regard to the most important question which faces the community, and that is how to contain the power blocs who are a law unto themselves at this moment. The Senate has before it a Bill which would enable the Opposition to enshrine at least in one direction in industrial matters the principle of democracy in union management. The Opposition refuses to take, for the third time in about 8 months, the opportunity which stands before it. 
I am not disagreeing with the faults in this Bill which  Senator Greenwood  has listed. I have not studied every detail that he has mentioned. What he says may be correct. Let us give it to him; let us say he is right. But surely he will recognise the fact that the Labor Party will not apply the strength, discipline and opportunities needed in relation to this question. Surely he will admit that that has come from the Liberal Party. Why has there been the failure on the part of the Liberal Party to produce? Why has there been stagnation in Liberal policy on this issue? I had hoped, forlornly and I know foolishly, in the first instance when this Bill came before the Senate that the amendments which I had drawn would at least be considered during the Committee stage and that we might consider putting into this Bill the provision for compulsory secret postal ballots for union decisions of this nature and giving a lead in relation to other types of decisions which are taken in other fields of union management. 
A very prominent New South Wales trade union leader told me privately that he definitely approved of that proposal and would publicly put his name to it if it was proposed in this place. Other people have since supported the proposal. I think that  Mr Laurie  Short has quite openly and publicly acclaimed the principle of secret postal ballots in union affairs. Here is one of the greatest opportunities in this legislative session for the Opposition to do something constructive, to take a Bill and to mould it according to democratic principles which the union movement so badly need. What do we find?  Senator Greenwood  gets up and takes pride, it would seem, in saying for the third time this session that the Opposition will not even allow the Bill to reach the Committee stage. All I can say is that there will never be any improvement in the disciplines which are required if honourable senators on the Opposition side of the chamber refuse to implement it, because it will not come from the Government side of the chamber. I am greatly disappointed that the Opposition will not use the opportunities which are presented to it on a plate by the PostmasterGeneral  (Senator Bishop)  tonight. 
I do not want to try to emulate the intensity that  Senator Wright  exhibited in his rather effective address to the Senate but I would say that I find it difficult and disappointing that this superannuation scheme was presented and is being discussed in isolation from the general question of a national superannuation scheme. I think that is a reflection on all honourable senators, including myself, that we are not discussing a scheme for the Public Service which is aimed at meshing inhowever long it might be in the future, even if it is a 20-year plan- with a national superannuation scheme for all Australians. In fact the explanation by the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  went out of its way to emphasise the separateness of this proposal and how it stands alone. The Minister made no excuse for the fact that no arrangements are made for the removal of the means test and the effect it will have on recipients of superannuation under this proposal. Therefore the almost deliberate aspect of treating this Superannuation Bill as a separate identity makes the debate on it and the consideration of it more difficult in respect of those people to whom  Senator Wright  referred- the major group of taxpayers who will pay taxation in their working lives to fund this scheme. 
There are 2 main factors surrounding an increase in expenditure under this scheme- the ability to pay for and the equity involved in this scheme in relation to the rest of the community. It is true today that the marginal rate of taxation for the average wage earner is said to be, I think, 44c. We are seeing in the community today the first real taxpayer revolt. The Government is aware of this in its consideration of tax indexation and other factors relating to cuts in the proposed Budget. They are all a direct result of revolt against the exorbitant tax rates which are now being paid by the community. As  Senator Wright  pointed out, this is not a fat cat consideration; it is the average wage earner who is paying in excess of 40c marginal tax rate. Therefore the ability to pay surely must be a very big consideration and merging with it is the matter of equity. 
We are discussing this Bill in isolation. What are we doing for the general community in providing it with life benefits such as are available under this scheme? By this legislation we are doing nothing except, as the Minister said, giving a lead. The Minister clearly stated in his second reading explanation that the Government scheme is supposed to do this. He said: 
When the present scheme was introduced in 1922 it was seen as a major advance in the superannuation field and the scheme has generally led developments ever since. There is no reason why it should not; indeed the national Government should lead. 
One can take it from that that the Government expects the moves made in this Bill to modernise and increase the benefits of the Public Service superannuation scheme to flow through into the private sector, otherwise it would not plan to take a leading position and would say that it sees its beneficial effect in isolation. We can only believe that the Government wants the effects of this scheme to flow through and it must believe that the costs of the scheme also will flow through. 
Having regard to the taxpayer revolt that I have mentioned, I find it rather illuminating that  Senator Mcauliffe,  in interjecting when  Senator Wright  was speaking, should say: 'You are humbugging about what is costs the country'. Those are his exact words. May I correct the honourable senator and substitute one word and say 'He is humbugging about what is costs the people'. It is all very fine to use a non-personal description of Australians in general by using the word country'. We are all involved in the costs of government. In this way, of course, the Government has set the strategic factors which surround all financial matters at this moment. The Government is involved in scaling down its programs to the available financial resources. No one in the Government will deny that. No one will deny that the great challenge of the next Budget is to effectively and fairly trim the programs of government to what is available from the entire Australian taxpaying field. So  Senator McAuliffe,  in his interjection, was simply adding to last year's Labor attitude to finance. He is back in the days when  Mr Clyde  Cameron, the Minister for Labor and Immigration, said that he believed in getting what could be got from collective bargaining. He no longer says that. He has advanced one step further than has  Senator McAuliffe  in his attitude tonight when he says: You are humbugging about what it costs the country'. 
I am the first one to applaud any modernisation of the superannuation scheme and I join  Senator Wright  in his commendation of those aspects of it. I too would like to see us pay as much as this country can afford. I would like to see a proper reward for those who have devoted long years of service- decades of service- to the Public Service of Australia which, of course, is to the public of Australia. Let us not use impersonal terms: The public servants are the people who work for all Australians. I would like to see them get the best, the fairest and most equitable scheme which this country can devise and afford. 
The strategic situation which basically has been set by the actions of this Government does not allow this Parliament to pass the expensive scheme that the Government has presented to it. It is not the fault of the Opposition if this scheme is amended substantially. The Opposition is taking the only responsible financial attitude available in the National Parliament, and not only in regard to superannuation. The Government's reaction last year to the Opposition 's recommendations on finance was to adopt them so it cannot claim that the Opposition has been irresponsible. I give full credit to the Liberal Party and I do not want to take anything from it in my single position here. The fact is that the Liberal Party presented its financial policy last year and it was endorsed by the Labor Government. Therefore tonight the Liberal Party can recommend on a basis of performance. What the Liberal Party is saying in fact is that it would like to give this sort of benefit to as wide a section of the Australian community as possible but the Government has set a strategic situation and has failed properly to manage the finances of this country. The failure of that responsibility will be admitted publicly on Friday when the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  announces a change of the stewardship of Australia's finances and changes his Treasurer. He will not be announcing the removal of a successful Treasurer. So the strategic situation is set by the Government against the interests of the Australian Public Service. It is not set against the Public Service by the Opposition. 
What the Opposition is saying, obviously, is that any increase in this field obviously has to come from deficit financing and therefore it has to be careful about what increases are agreed to. It is suggested that the scheme should be modernised and that a comparison exists. One of the amendments that the Opposition is to put forward is that if any of the existing contributors believe they may be disadvantaged by this scheme they may elect to stay with the present scheme. That is the competitive effect of the present and the proposed schemes. I expect to support most of the Opposition amendments but would like to know whether any of them have been altered since the Bill came from the House of Representatives. 1 studied those that arose in the House of Representatives and I will listen to the discussion to see whether they are still the same. I intend to support most of them. I do so only because the last amendment allows those who feel that they may be disadvantaged to stay in the old scheme. Those who have been paying large late payments under the old scheme will not feel that they have in any way - 
It is all very fine for honourable senators opposite to get down to the voting power. They know full well they have the votes in this situation. They know they have the votes, and they can laugh about it. If any votes are to be won, they have got them. Let me say this about the ex-Prime Minister: In asserting his support for the full superannuation proposals he is not varying his previous attitude. If he stands according to his previous attitude he cannot be charged with opportunism. 
I am sure that  Senator McAuliffe  expects some additional votes out of this matter. That seems to be his level of approach. He is humbugging the country. He should not humbug the country because he wants some votes. One of the surrounding aspects of the discussion on this Bill which has been quite objectionable has been the threat made by some officers of associations representing public servants that if they did not get the full benefits of this Bill they would campaign against members of the Liberal and National Country parties. That is the first time I have experienced that sort of threat and blackmail. I have voted against the interests, as seen, of some big businesses in this country. I have voted against what some businesses have believed was their interests in restrictive trade practices. I have voted against the interests of a great number of individuals in the community. I have never previously been subject to that threat. It is the first time in my political life. I hope it is the last time. As the Prime Minister said on 'Monday Conference', such action is counter productive. From my assessment of individuals I would guarantee that no one on this side of the chamber would vote for the Bill because of those threats. I do not intend to over react and vote for the amendments because of those threats, any more than I intend to vote for the Bill because of them. I think honourable senators should realise that those threats have been made, when they glory in the voting effects which may come from opposing these amendments, because it does not do them credit in any way to be associated with the threats. 
There is public concern. It cannot be wiped off by saying that the scheme is a different one and one which does not affect the public. It affects the public schemes, according to  Senator Wriedt,  the Minister who introduced the Bill in this chamber. He said that it is giving a lead. He cannot escape the consequences to the private sector by saying that it is not a funded scheme but that it comes from taxpayers' funds. Private schemes are funded schemes. The comparison that  Senator Wright  made about the $452m, which I think is the figure he used, is a valid comparison because the lead which this scheme gives to the private sector funds will be seen to affect them in a capital way. So the comparison which  Senator Wright  made is a valid one. 
If private funds have to move according to the provisions of this Bill, the funds which they may set aside will be affected very substantially. I am conscious of that fact. However, I must say that the comparisons which have been made by some leading accountants and representatives of business have in some ways been over emphasised. Certainly some of the critics have made comparisons on major aspects of the existing scheme and the proposed scheme which have been accepted by both sides of the political scene and which are not the subject of contention tonight. The effect of the consumer price index adjustments on the Government payments, is not in contention between the 2 sides of this Parliament; it is a fact of life. Yet some private actuaries argue as if there is contention- that this Bill will be more effective than the scheme which it is meant to supersede. Therefore I think that some of the private criticisms have been over emphasised and have not dealt with the specific issues which are under contention between the 2 major political parties. 
I am certainly conscious of the effect of the adoption of age 60 as the official retiring age for full benefit and the effect it will have on the private sector. I am aware also of the general view that now is not the time, when inflation is running at anything from 1 5 per cent to 20 per cent, to enter into unknown commitments for an unknown future to the extent to which this scheme would lead the private sector. There are a number of optimists in the community who believe that inflation this year will be lower than 1 5 per cent. There are people, who still consider themselves optimists, who say that inflation will be below 20 per cent. There are plenty of pessimists who say that it will be above 20 per cent. On that basis it is not a time to venture. The Opposition surely is not saying that any contributor to the present scheme would be disadvantaged because of the amendment which has been referred to previously by other speakers and by me. No claim can be made that any existing contributor will be disadvantaged by the Opposition's attitude. However, the Opposition is saying that it agrees to the modernisation of the administration of the scheme and to the new scheme competing for a while with the old scheme. It is a known fact that if there are faults in the scheme, if the community suddenly develops a much greater capacity to pay, if the financial aspect of the public management by this Government improves and if it is desirable to increase these benefits, they can be increased by another amendment at any sitting of this Parliament. 
Therefore it is a cautious and a sensible procedure to look at a scene set strategically by this Government. The scene is one of financial failure. We are about to see the third Treasurer in the short life of this Government. That indicates a self-admitted failure in financial management. It is prudent at this time to say: 'Let us adopt a scheme which will not be worse than the old scheme and which will give great advantages administratively but which at the same time will not place pressure on the private sector'. I believe that at this stage in the development of Australia it is in far worse condition than the Government even knows. It is not a matter of the Government admitting it; it is a matter of the Government even knowing it. It is not the big businesses in this community which will fold under pressures such as those which will be brought to bear by this Bill; it is the myriads of small businesses today which are simply going out of business without any publicity. There will always be big businesses such as the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd. I think Australia should be thankful for that. It is not the solvency of BHP that we talk about; it is the solvency of the plumber who employs 6 people or the furniture maker who employed 8 people in Sydney.This case was referred to in an article in a recent edition of the 'Australian Financial Review'. Those people cannot face the increased costs of benefits such as those envisaged in the Bill. 
I believe the Opposition is basically right. I would like to consider one or two amendments. I would like to know whether they are different from the ones which were presented in the House of Representatives. I believe it might be best to apply the figure of 67 per cent to payments to widows. While the Opposition may justify the economy because it is in line with the rest of the improvements in the Bill, it involves an emotional response which might very well divert the argument from the general proposition which the Opposition is putting. 
I am sure that  Senator Poyser  is being pragmatic. He is already counting the votes. I am not sure that he has not a calculator there to work out the gain to his side of politics. On the basis of looking at the capacity to pay, the equity to others in the community, the failure of all members of Parliament- I include myself- to develop any logical argument for a national superannuation scheme, which is the only fair basis on which to develop superannuation in Australia, and even the failure to mesh in this scheme with the removal of the means test, I believe the Opposition's amendments in the main should be supported. They are not unchangeable. They are properly cautious. They do not deprive contributors of their present benefits. Certainly, if the amendments are passed and the Government accedes to the Bill in that changed form, they still will represent an added administrative advantage and, in many cases, financial advantage to those in the Public Service. 
I want to say very briefly how much I welcome the change of heart of  Senator McLaren  in advocating service after normal office hours. In agreeing with  Senator Coleman  - 
-Of course it is a change of heart. I compliment  Senator McLaren  and ask him to take his views back to the South Australian branch of his Party and try to instil similar views in their beliefs and their advocacy. In South Australia the Labor Party has been the greatest stumbling block in extending shopping hours. We have tried to extend shopping hours in South Australia to bring conditions up to those which exist in some other States. If only the Labor Party, of which  Senator McLaren  is so publicly a member, had advocated a positive proposal instead of hiding in a cowardly fashion behind public opinion and then manipulating to obtain a no vote, the position would have been different. If  Senator McLaren  had influenced his Party to his present attitude South Australia would be a much more enlightened State instead of being the restricted part of Australia which it now is. So I compliment  Senator McLaren  on his new attitude and ask him to prevail upon his colleagues in his own State. 

 Senator McLAREN (South Australia)-I claim to have been misrepresented by  Senator Hall.  At no time have I been opposed to the staffing of the front office at Parliament House. In his usual style,  Senator Hall  has tried to draw a red herring across the path. He has claimed that I have had a change of heart. I have pressed for the matters I have raised tonight ever since I have been a member of the Joint House Committee.  Senator Hall  stoops to very low action in misrepresenting me, and I will take him up on the matter in an adjournment debate at another date. 
I hope to press this matter. As a matter of fact, I have already presented it to the administrators of the Joint House Department, and I expect them to implement the proposition that the job of attendant in this Parliament should be open equally to males and females. I hope that this Administration will be known as having implemented the equality of opportunity for the attendants of this Parliament. 
The other point I would like to make, for which I feel partly responsible, relates to the provision of an information officer and a female attendant- separately from the bookshop- who can look after the tourists. I do not think there should be any division of responsibilities. If the Australian Government Publishing Service wants to man the bookshop and use the Parliament as a place to disseminate information and literature I approve of that and want to promote it. But it is separate altogether from the matter of having an attendant in Kings Hall not only during the time Parliament is sitting but also throughout the whole of the year. Such an attendant fulfils a very important function in being able to answer the questions of the people who are interested in participating in the Parliament of this country. I will draw quite forcibly to the attention of the Joint House Department the matters that have been raised by the 2 honourable senators. I hope that there will never be another occasion when these matters have to be raised in the adjournment debate in the Senate. 
I understand that the charges which are fixed will be brought in by regulation. I take it that the regulations made under the Stevedoring Industry Charge Assessment Act would have to pass through this House. Therefore the Senate would have the final surveillance in that respect. I know that is not as satisfactory as direct legislation- it never is. Nevertheless a legitimate claim can be made that the regulations will once again present the matter before the Parliament and any honourable senator who has a seconder can ventilate his views on them at any time during the required number of sitting days that they are before the Parliament. 
I suppose the justification for moving the amendment will only be known in the future if the charges made are beyond those which are anticipated up to the limit that is contained in the original Bill. I think it is somewhat demeaning for the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority to have to be so closely in line with the stipulated charge when it is in fact subject to the discipline of regulations. I think that the amendment is unnecessary, although I can fully understand the motives behind it. I do not think that we can expect to have the regulations as a means of surveillance if we are going to have the charges set in another way in the first place. I just do not think that the amendment is necessary. 
Apart from wishing to emphasise the need for the bringing in of a permanent scheme, I would like to ask  Senator Greenwood  whether his amendment really does anything. I am quite sure that this Bill is needed. Whilst I get very cross about the fact of the lower House not sitting, the PostmasterGeneral  (Senator Bishop)  could argue that we have taken a fair time to pass this Bill this afternoon. That is no criticism, but the Minister could argue in that way. In the current situation, I believe that the Senate will be a very useless organisation next week, hamstrung by the fact- 
In that case, that !&gt;art of my argument is gone. However, I would ike to ask  Senator Greenwood,  apart from wishing to emphasise the point of the legislation to which he has referred, whether he can tell us what his amendment adds to the existing legislation. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  tonight has ended speculation about the formation of the Cabinet and Ministry subsequent to the rumours and changes which have been pending, but one factor, of course, was not included in the Prime Minister's statement this evening. There was no mention of the allegations which were made this morning concerning thefts of letters from the previous Treasurer s office and the transfer of portion of that letter from the Treasury to the Attorney-General's Department. A great deal of disquiet has been caused in the community as to the propriety of that action and of the people involved. Without developing the matter at any length tonight, I ask the Ministers who are present in the chamber to assure the Senate at some time in the future, hopefully by Tuesday, that the Government will take all necessary action to ascertain whether any improprieties were committed, and if they were to give an assurance that the matter will be publicly dealt with so that the public can be satisfied with the administration which is carried on in their behalf. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: In view of allegations made this morning that, firstly, a copy of a letter which  Dr Cairns  had written to  Mr George  Harris of Melbourne was stolen from  Dr Cairns'  office, secondly, that a copy of this letter was sent from the Treasury to the AttorneyGeneral's office for investigation, and, thirdly, that the copy furnished to the Attorney-General was seriously altered by way of deletion, what investigations will the Government undertake into the extremely serious implications which arise from these claims to find out who took the letter, who altered it and who submitted it to the Attorney-General's office for investigation? 
Having hopefully made my views fairly clear last night, I do not feel that I need to speak for long to any amendment. Surely the Government is really responsible for the moving of the amendments. The scheme is obviously an untidy arrangement if one considers the total equity of all of the community in relation to this legislation. One thing which immediately raises great disquiet is that under this scheme apparently the taxpayer in the factory, who pays, as I said last night, 44c in his marginal taxation dollar, will not only pay for this scheme but also have to make his own arrangements. The result of this will be that he will receive a pension and the people about whom we are now talking will receive a pension in addition to all the benefits of this scheme. This is the totally irrational approach that this Government presents to this chamber at a time when the burden for the accelerating programs of government is to be felt by everyone. 
-If the Minister says that the States are now the pace setters and have taken over the role of the Commonwealth which has traditionally been the pace setter, it means that the Commonwealth has abdicated. This scheme has no influence on the States. That is the Government's failure. We are not dealing with a State proposition when we deal with this scheme. I cannot understand how I, in a truly representative role, could say to my electors- not to the tall poppies of North Terrace or the so-called establishment but to the worker in the factory with his 44c marginal taxation rate- 'You, the electors, are to pay the increased costs of this scheme so that the recipients of it can receive, in addition to your pension, 50 per cent, 60 per cent or 70 per cent of their final salary'. There will be an increase in costs, but we cannot argue as to how much it will be. I cannot in all justice say to those people that I can agree to the increase in the cost of this scheme. 
If there are to be administrative changes I believe it is up to the Government to bring in a scheme which does not increase the cost at this time. That is a possibility; that can be done. The Government cannot say to the Opposition: 'This is what you are offered and that is the end of it. Therefore your amendments are unacceptable and you cannot stand in the way of administrative change'. That is not so. The Government can say to its experts: 'We want a better scheme which is more equitable to the members of the Public Service and we do not want to increase the costs at this time'. The experts would bring in a scheme, which, I feel sure, would meet many of the factors which the Government desires and which would meet the approval of the Opposition. I will not accept blame on this side of the chamber. The blame rests squarely with the Government. I intend to support all the amendments of the Opposition except the one concerning widows' pensions. I do not see any need further to debate the issue. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Cotton's amendment No.1 ) be left out. 
I do not intend to support the Opposition amendments in this case, but in taking that action I do not intend to criticise the Opposition for moving them. Probably the Opposition is right in equity if one looks at the total community. Certainly the majority of Australians cannot get this prospective cover for their wives for the payment for which members of the Public Service can get it. I do not think that is disputed. We are talking of a smaller group in the community, and I do not think it is a very good argument to introduce the word 'equity', as  Senator Coleman  did. That is exactly the word for and the basis of the Opposition's view about this matter. It seems to me there will be some confrontation out of the action the Opposition is taking, and if present indications are any guide it will be something of long standing. I assume- I do not know, I can only assume from the Minister's attitude- that the Government will not proceed with this Bill with the present amendments being effected to it. 
It is a matter of whether the Government is governing or the unions are governing in that case, I suppose. That must be the case if  Senator Poyser  's comment is to be taken at face value. However, I do not want to develop that as an argument. I am saying that it would seem from present attitudes that the Government will not proceed, and if it does not proceed this matter will be something of long-standing contention. I would not like to see the general Opposition attitude, which I think in this case is reasonably responsible, misdirected or sidetracked on the basis of what is quite an emotional argument about not such a great figure in relation to the total action the Opposition is taking. In not supporting the amendments, I want to tell  Senator Cotton  that I do not criticise his Party for moving them, but I believe it is a confusing issue to the major proposition the Opposition is putting. Certainly the increase of 67 per cent cannot be argued in any equity form, considering the total Australian population. 
Question put: 
That the amendments numbers 37 to 41 and 44 to 73  (Senator Cotton's  amendments) be agreed to. 
The debate on the Stevedoring Industry Charge Bill seems to be very wide ranging. I do not disagree with the sentiments expressed by  Senator Wright.  I share his extreme concern for the movement of goods across our wharves. However, we do not stand alone as a country with that problem. I am sure that he knows, as do others, of the problem which exists sometimes in greater measure, although many shipowners will say that Australia ranks with the leaders in the field of problems and trouble through and across our wharves. 
However, I come back to the Bill. It seems to me that there is something in the disciplines of the second amendment suggested by the Opposition, in the sense that it sets an arbitrary timetable for the completion of permanent arrangements. While that may seem arbitrary, I guess the time can be extended. If the Minister of the day, before the expiry of the time set, came to Parliament and said that he wanted another 3 months or 6 months for the completion of the scheme, I guess that the Parliament would be reasonable enough to give it to him. At least this is an attempt to finalise the matters which have been fairly eloquently referred to by members of the Opposition. 
I accept that statement by  Senator Greenwood.  In relation to the charges, I am somewhat concerned that the Opposition seems to be simply making a point and doing nothing more than that. It is said that the regulations are likely to fix the charges at $2.20 an hour for class A charge. If that is so the Opposition is fixing a fine leeway of 5c in its proposed amendment. It seems to me that that is a rather ineffective approach to this matter. Despite the major problems with which I agree and from which I do not detract- I could add some substance to them with various other examples- that is the general basis of the philosophy of how the arrangements should be arrived at. What we seem to be considering in the exact alterations to the charges per man hour is whether we will support the already established statutory arrangements. Certainly, the representatives of the Associated Employers of Waterside Labour do not want these amendments to go into this Bill. I have been contacted by representatives of the employers who have stated that they want the Bill to go through unamended. 
-That may be. That is a fairly relevant criticism of employers in many fields of industry in Australia. I agree with  Senator Wright's  interjection. Nevertheless, to me that seems to be a tedious way of getting at the problem in general. Surely this has opened up the debate. That has been a fair enough exercise here today. But let us get to the amendments which require a reduction of 25c in the first part, 30c in the second and 25c in the third. That seems to me to be simply emphasising a debating point. Surely the present statutory arrangements must be met. I am told that the fund which stands behind the payments which have been the subject of debate is deficient, or if not deficient, at least under-funded. If that is the case it seems to me somewhat arbitrary for the Senate to say: We will put at some risk the ability of the Authority to properly fund its obligations'. That seems to me to be taking the problem from completely the wrong end. 
One cannot expect to starve the fund which is needed to support still accepted arrangements which have been entered into. For that reason I must agree with the representations that have been made to me by the employer representatives in this case, that the Bill should not be touched. It seemed to me that they too were perhaps over emphasising their point in saying that if the regulations cannot be framed now the charges which will be made in several months time will be all the higher because of the loss of revenue from the failure to charge now. In fairness to the Opposition it must be said that its amendments would allow an increase slightly in excess of what it is assumed the regulations will be in any case. I guess the Opposition can claim in response to representations made by the employers on this matter that it is not depressing the rates below the rates which are expected to be fixed. 
In introducing this Bill the Government appears to be setting a safety margin which it does not expect to require and the Opposition has been fairly judicious in including in its amendments the figure at which it has arrived. I believe that is all too fine a judgment. It is an unnecessary and somewhat arbitrary way of trying to fix a great organisational and somewhat philosophical problem from the bottom up by squeezing the fund of its needs to meet its statutory obligations. I do not feel that the amendments to the charges should be supported. However, I will listen to further arguments on the last time table amendment which seems to me to have some disciplinary effect. I would like some further explanation which I hope will not be at great length. The amendment does seem to be to be worthwhile in the sense that it exerts desirable pressure to give effect to what most people say must be finally achieved. 
I move: 
That- 
1 ) The Senate approves the Variation of the Plan of Layout of the City of Canberra and its Environs, dated 8 May 1 975, made under the Seat of Government (Administration ) Act 1910-1973, and tabled in the Senate on 14 May 1975. 
The Senate, however, requests the Minister for Urban and Regional Development to initiate a review of the site of the off-take for the Western Distributor to ensure the preservation of the environmental amenity of the area. 
I thank the Senate for the opportunity to move this motion. It arises from the fact that following an approach by representatives of the Academy of Science I moved some days ago for the disallowance of the variation of the plan of layout of the city of Canberra which approved the Molonglo arterial road. I moved for that disallowance so that representatives of the Academy of Science would be able further to put forward the point that the traffic which would flow from the arterial road from the off-take point would affect the environment of the Academy. The Academy representatives told me that until the day before I moved for the disallowance they had been under the impression that the western distributor which would subsequently be built from the off-take point would go underground and therefore there would be minimal disturbance to the environment in the vicinity of the Academy of Science. They were disturbed to find that no such final plan had been made and there was every possibility that the distributor might be above the ground, in which case the environment of the Academy would be very seriously disturbed. I therefore moved for the disallowance and advised the representatives of the Academy to see their local members and the responsible Minister, if possible. This they did and I understand that the  President  of the Academy was received in a deputation by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  and also that a fairly wide range of individuals involved in the planning of the arterial road have been subsequently interviewed and seen by representatives of the Academy of Science. The problem is the location of the off-take from the arterial road which will then govern the location of the distributor road at a later date. 
I hope that the planners will take note of the fears of the representatives of the Academy. Possibly it would have been more satisfactory if the variation could have been amended to accept the approval of the off-take rather than simply to move a request as is being made now in respect of the variation. However it is not possible to move an amendment to meet the situation and therefore a request has been made. I appreciate the attitude of the Acting  Chairman  of the Joint Standing Committee on the Australian Capital Territory,  Senator Marriott,  who was good enough also to see the representatives of the Academy of Science. What has now been suggested in the amendment I moved is that the "Minister for Urban and Regional Development be requested to initiate a review of the off-take from the arterial road. I believe the acceptance of this motion will give some backing for such a review. Even if it does not do so in a legal sense, at least the passage of this motion would emphasise the concern of the representatives of the Academy of Science, which after all was there before the arterial road was planned. 
I think it is right for the Academy to believe that it represents a very prominent facility in Canberra and one which is much admired. Everyone would be disappointed if the amenity of the Academy was greatly disturbed as its representatives believe it might be. If the Senate feels strongly enough about the Academy to approve the motion I have moved it can know that this decision cannot legally hold up the construction of the roadworks and that the Academy is not being given some undue position of influence but is at least receiving official recognition of the problems which face it. The Academy would be in the enhanced position of knowing that at least its beliefs were being recognised while it continued its negotiations. I again thank the Acting  Chairman  of the Joint Standing Committee for receiving the representatives of the Academy. I want to stress that my role in this matter has been simply to give the Academy of Science a breathing space and time to make representations to the authorities about the new points of planning which it discovered so late in the day. 
in reply- I thank  Senator Marriott  and  Senator Devitt  for their remarks. This is an excellent example of how subordinate legislation can work effectively. The project will not be held up and yet those who feel that they have a problem in relation to a specific part of these works now know that they have at least some recognition of their problem and that further talks will be arranged on their behalf. Privately, I hope that the off-take can be reorganised to suit the Australian Academy of Science. If this cannot be done at least we know that the Academy will be properly heard. I reiterate my private hope that the matter can be adjusted to suit the environment. I certainly thank the Senate. In no way do I pretend to be an expert as are the 2 members of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Australian Capital Territory who have spoken on this matter. Mine was simply a holding role to enable further debate. I thank honourable senators for their remarks. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I am disappointed that the Government has not dealt with the larger question which I think was mentioned in the debate on the original Bill, and that was the general approach to equity throughout the whole community. In explaining the way I voted on this matter to people who have been quite irate because they as public servants will not be able to enjoy the total benefits of the Bill as introduced by the Government, I have done so on equity. That is, the Government owes some explanation to the public and to Parliament as to where it stands on a national superannuation scheme for all Australians and where it stands in regard to the application of a means test free pension. 
I should have thought that if the Government were serious about having the Senate reverse its view on the amendments which it has already proposed it would have said something on the matters I mentioned in re-presenting the legislation to the Senate. But it has not. So we deal with more supportive detail. I must say that I believe it is excellent detail. I am sure there is nothing wrong with the examples the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt)  used. But he did not deal with the most important of all questions. He dealt with the detail of the scheme, which he has not justified in the totality of the Australian community. I feel very disappointed on behalf of those people who work for the Government in its various aspects that they have been denied the general provisions which have been agreed to by both sides of the Senate. As I have said when I have explained my position to them, I believe the Government is at fault. It is the Government's responsibility that it has not dealt with the equity questions, that the desirable parts of the Bill are not being accepted or will not be implemented by the Government because of the amendments which have been moved. 
I believe, as everyone should know, that the Bill will now fail. The Government, judging by the attitude expressed by the Minister, will not proceed with the Bill. Something will have to give. I suggest that the Government would be advised to take the Bill away and to bring it back in an acceptable form. It should leave those matters which cannot be agreed upon between the 2 major parties of politics and bring in a Bill which can be agreed to. In that way it will achieve the desirable aspects which are required and which are not contentious. But to present these amendments without meeting the obligation to the general community to treat them as sectional benefits is to ensure that they will not pass the Senate as it is now constituted. On behalf of all those who are looking forward to an improved superannuation scheme I respectfully ask the Government to work out a scheme which is acceptable in light of the amendments which have been proposed by the Opposition. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. What inconsistency does the honourable senator see in the statement by the Prime Minister that he removed  Dr Cairns  from his position as Treasurer because of letters  Dr Cairns  wrote to  Mr Harris,  and  Mr Harris'  statement last night that yesterday he contacted  Dr Cairns  with a proposal for an overseas loan which  Dr Cairns  is now actively pursuing? 
I rise simply to give an explanation of the words splinter Party'. I believe  Senator Bunton  inadvertently used that phrase. With all deference to  Senator Bunton  's removal, perhaps, from the power base of the Liberal Movement, a splinter party is what we are not. The electoral results in South Australia do not support that contention in any way because at the last test we were the major non-Labor Party in South Australia. 
I thank  Senator McLaren  for his stirring remarks, but they are nothing more than that. The gulf between  Senator Withers, Senator Greenwood  and their colleagues and me is far too great ever to bridge. I can assure  Senator McLaren  that the very differences on electoral matters in my State preclude us from coming together. I should not like to say that I would be personally disappointed if the vote on this motion went against my inclusion in the delegation. That of course would relieve me from a great deal of study and application to the subject matter. But I know that the 23 per cent of the non-Labor voters in South Australia who voted for me at the Senate elections would be disappointed. They would feel that some unfair - 
-The 23 per cent of the non-Labor voters who voted for my Party at the Senate election- that is the statistic if  Senator Young  would like to do his homework- would be very disappointed if I were excluded. I think that is the basis of the matter. Why has  Senator Withers  proposed the motion? He said that he has done it on a non-personal basis and I hope that is the case. But I feel that he thinks there is some political question in South Australia attached to this matter. He may attribute motives to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  but I think it is fair enough to say that he sees some political result in South Australia. I wonder whether  Senator Withers  is mistaken, that the people who think about politics in South Australia would feel that he is taking some unfair advantage of this corner of the chamber which includes 2 people who are not members of the National Country Party of Australia or the Liberal Party of Australia, especially as  Senator Wriedt  has pointed out that his Party did not have any additional representation because of the previous motion on this matter that went through the House.  Senator Withers  is now looking to use brute force in this House to alter the position dramatically in his Party's favour, in fact to double- to put up by 100 per cent- the representation of his Party from this Senate at the Constitutional Convention. 
-That is a pretty fair increase.  Senator Missen  has referred to electors. I think that electors in South Australia will take note of what they will think is a fairly small minded move. 
I think that is another matter. Electorally, it may well be that he is doing me a favour by pointing out that he will take his opposition, politically, to any lengths to try to make an impact. I believe that will rebound in South Australia despite  Senator McLaren's  hopeful stirring interjection which is without foundation. If  Senator Withers'  view prevails there will be a significant independent and small party viewpoint which will be unrepresented at the Constitutional Convention. I do not think it is represented in any way from the lower House. It could not be. There is no nonmajor party representation from the lower House. Therefore all minor parties, smaller partieshowever they are measured- and independents will be excluded. So as far as the Federal Parliament is concerned the Constitutional Convention will be a big party machine deal. 
I do not know the answer to that question. The South Australian House is sitting at the moment. I do not know whether it has made any fresh arrangement. I quite honestly cannot answer  Senator Greenwood.  I hope they have not made any changes in South Australia because my colleague and State leader,  Mr Robin  Millhouse, is recognised as a very keen and able constitutional student and lawyer who applies himself well to matters relating to the Federal Constitution. I think that despite the problem in the upper House with the party to which  Senator Withers  belongs and, of course, the opposition of the Liberal Party in the lower House, the South Australian Parliament is likely to retain the position of  Mr Millhouse  because of the value he contributes to the Convention. Without in any way arguing this in a personal way, I think it is wrong for  Senator Withers  to try to use brute force to double his party's involvement from the Senate at the Constitutional Convention and to exclude all federal non-major party representation at that Convention. 
There are more than legal doubts now about the growth centres which are the subject of this Bill. On 10 June there appeared in the 'Australian' newspaper a Press report of a departmental inquiry commissioned by the Federal Department of Urban and Regional Development. I have not yet had time to read the report of that inquiry, if one is available and I suppose it is available. But one cannot doubt the validity of the newspaper report, on a general scan of it. It raises tremendous questions as to the propriety of having these growth centres at all. It raises the question of whether there is room in Australia for more than one growth centre. The article says: 
The Federal Government may be pursuing the wrong policies on growth centres, according to an Australia-wide survey commissioned by the Federal department of Urban and Regional Development. 
The Government could not claim that that report was ill-founded or that it was someone else's criticisms. It is the Department in effect talking to itself. The report continues: 
Headed by Professor M. Logan, deputy chairman of the Department of geography at Monash University and a past adviser to the department, the four-man team covered Australia region by region and the six capital cities suburb by suburb. 
The researchers suggest the Government reappraise its policy on growth centres like Albury-Wodonga, BathurstOrange and Geelong in the light of future resources, including population. 
The viability of more than one such centre in Australia must be seriously questioned. One of the first questions is where are the people going to come from?' Professor Logan asks. 
With the ink hardly dry on this report we are discussing adding to the figure of $258m by $450,000- a minute sum, of course, considering the total advance payment which we are making on these growth centres. But the fact is that since the Government launched its great policy initiatives in growth centres the population development and the expected growth in Australian population have altered altogether. 
Well, it impinges on growth centres in the sense that it is very closely allied with them. It is part of the sense of widening development of population centres in which the Government is involved. Before the Government gets too deeply involved in spreading its money widely in spheres which are being greatly questioned by independent advisers I suggest it should look carefully at its programs. It should look particularly carefully at Monarto, which is not concerned with this Bill I admit but is subject to very severe questioning by authorities who are advising the South Australian Government. The Government should look at its wide range of expenditures in the general spreading of Australia's population to make sure that it is not making the vast mistakes there that it is making in other directions. 
I am pleased to see that this Bill is finally being passed, because in my State several tax consultants have advised their customers that they could not expect to receive the depreciation benefits which were announced by, I think, the previous Treasurer late last year. 
In December last year. I made urgent inquiries about this matter last week. I found, of course, what I ought to have known, that the benefits were tied up in this major Bill affecting the situation in Papua New Guinea. This matter has caused some concern among people who had been encouraged to buy large amounts of farm machinery. Of course, the policies which were announced in December were designed to give this encouragement. It seems to me, from the experience of these 2 taxation consultants who had advised their customers of their belief that the depreciation allowance would not apply, that some publicity will need to be given to the passage of this Bill. Not, of course, that the matter would not be fixed eventually. I am sure that in the end, after some confusion in accounting procedures, the position would be clarified. But it might save inefficiency and some doubt in the minds of some people who have bought machinery on the strength of the earlier announcement, if the Department could perhaps make known to all consultants that the changes are now in effect and are law. . 
I move: 
After 'time' (first occurring) insert 'for purposes which include the summoning of certain persons to attend as witnesses before the Senate'. 
I have moved my amendment for a very definite purpose. Firstly, I say that it is acknowledged that it is normal for a Government to be in control of the business of the House. That is certainly the normal procedure of a House's operation, whether the Government has a majority in that House or not. That is the procedure which was adopted certainly in the place where I have come from, in South Australia. I must admit, however, that there could be circumstances of a very serious nature in which the Opposition might have a legitimate interest in reassembling the Senate. But I have deliberately framed my amendment to prevent another abject failure such as the Opposition suffered today in trying to attack the Government. I will not support the reassembling of the Senate before the time that the Government has set for it for another debacle by the Opposition. 
Everyone knows that today the Government really won the debate. I will explain why. Since 23 April when the Opposition first started to ask questions about the overseas loan affair, it has gained a certain amount of information concerning names from the Government. It has had those names for a considerable amount of time. The Opposition now relies heavily on the journey to come, I believe, of  Mr Lynch  overseas to see the gnomes of Zurich and other mysterious people of Asian origin in mysterious places to confirm the evidence which so far is totally unconfirmed. Of course the problem with the Opposition is that it has totally misdirected its quest and totally misdirected its attack if that is what one could call the urgency motion today. 
What could I do about it? I could not get on the speaking list. I do not blame the Government or the Opposition for that. There is a tightly held time-table in an urgency motion and, as I said to you privately,  Mr President,  I make no complaint that I could not get on that list. 
Whether  Senator Sim  believes it or not worries me not at all. The situation is- and it must be said- that the secrets and the information which the Opposition desires are held by Anglo-Saxons who live in Canberra. That is where the information resides that the Opposition has said it wants, the Opposition which has become so adept at asking questions but not wanting the answers. Therefore, I will not be one to agree to the reassembly of the Senate so that the Opposition can again embarrass itself. There would have to be very good reasons indeed to take the situation one step further, and the only way in which the situation can be taken further is for the Senate itself to inquire into it. 
Anyone would know that, unless the Opposition has the information, Ministers in this style of government can avoid answering questions, and they are avoiding answering. The Government is hiding important information which is relevant to the Opposition's questions. It is because the Opposition cannot or will not produce the evidence behind its charges that the Government can sit there free of any real embarrassment. Today's debate simply has provided no answers and has greatly deepened the mystery and the implications for the Government and for the Senate. Yet the Senate is about to go home, and there is going to be some great play by the Opposition about recalling the Senate. I venture to say that the Opposition has no intention of recalling the Senate. It is a play on words, and it is a sop to the public by an Opposition that has failed to do a job. The Senate goes home on the very day that the mystery has grown to the extent that it has today following the disclosures made by  Senator James  McClelland in his speech when he tabled the various documents. At the very peak of the question, the Senate goes home. 
I wish  Senator Sim  would keep quiet or interject sensibly. 
I wish to speak to the amendment. 1 am sorry if  Senator Wright  felt that he was hoodwinked. I do not think that he used that word but someone else did on his behalf. I must say to  Senator Wright  and to the Senate that I had not the slightest intention of obscuring the meaning of my amendment. If I did not explain the meaning fully when I spoke to my amendment I take full blame for that, but I meant the amendment to stand exactly as it is. I thought that I had explained the meaning of my amendment by saying that I could not see the merit in again assembling the Senate for a propaganda effort without content. 
-Senator Missen 's amendment. 

 -For Senator George's benefit, I would like to tell him that  Senator Missen  has moved an amendment to my amendment. I am speaking to the amendment moved by  Senator Missen. 

 -To Senator Withers' amendment. I have a second mortgage on these amendments. I say to  Senator Wright  that I do not believe that the Senate ought to come back unless it has proper work to do, and that is the hearing of evidence. 
-Let me explain again to  Senator Wright  that I do not believe in taking out of the hands of the Government the arrangements of the sittings of a House. It is a bad principle. I say to  Senator Wright  that we would be starting with a bad principle. To take arrangements of the sittings of a House out of the hands of the Government between major sessions is not a good thing to do in any British parliamentary system. If honourable senators do not like my saying that and think that I am being sanctimonious, I cannot help that. They say things too. Let them not complain tonight about the criticism as though it is all one-sided. I invite honourable senators to come to South Australia and listen to what is said there. Yesterday  Senator Jessop  referred to me as Judas. Let us not imagine that the criticism is all one-sided and that I am standing here ladling it out and that none is coming back. I must say that that is a very innocent view that honourable senators from other States have of the politics of honourable senators from South Australia. On that basis, even though I am one against four or five South Australian senators from the Liberal Party, I will have my say and I do not care if honourable senators resent it. That is their business. Now let me get back to the point to which  Senator Wright  referred. 
I will try to be reasonable.  Senator Wright  believes in the Westminster system. I put it to him that you do not lightly take the arrangement of the sittings of a House out of the control of a government. I think that  Senator Wright  would agree with the principle that a Parliament must work and the Government of the day must have control of the sittings. There are exceptional circumstances, however, on which  Senator Wright  and I agreethe Senate may or may not agree with this- when an Opposition which has the majority of numbers could in some state of very great crisis- I did not want to use the word 'crisis' but that is the only word I can think of at the moment- convene the House. I am simply expressing the personal view that I do not think the Opposition has the right capriciously to cause the House to meet again to repeat today's exercise. It would be fatuous to go through today's excercise again. Yet I feel that that is all that the Opposition may do without some discipline being applied. It is typical of the Opposition to take out of my amendment the mandatory element- that is, that whatever may be the business of the Senate it must include the calling of witnesses- and to insert the word ' may '. 
-Senator Missen does not like my criticsm of his amendment. I am sorry that he does not like it. What I am saying is that his amendment is less determinate. I do not know whether I can absolve Opposition Senators from being so sensitive that it regards my words as being sandpaper on their sensitive skins, but I shall use the politest of terms and say that it is much less determinate. It is less definite. It is not definite enough, in my view. Therefore I intend to vote against  Senator Missen  's amendment. I will vote against the original motion if it includes the word 'may' instead of retaining the mandatory element which requires the calling of evidence. 
I want very briefly to refer to a very strange occurrence in South Australia. At the moment the State Leader,  Mr Dunstan,  is busily repudiating his own Federal Party. 
As  Senator Cavanagh  has said very rightly, there is an election on in South Australia.  His  State Leader is repudiating the policies which the Minister for Police and Customs  (Senator Cavanagh)  and his Leader in the Federal Parliament have been following so assiduously for the last 2 or  2  years. It is indeed an act of very great disloyalty by the South Australian Premier to the Party which has allowed him to govern South Australia without rift or without division. The State Premier has been going across Australia claiming close affinity with the Federal Party right throughout all the years of his tenure as a member of Parliament and yet, at the first show of real oppositiona show of defeat in South Australia- the Premier repudiates his Party. The inept way that the Federal Government has responded in trying to assuage the fears of the South Australian public especially in relation to the wine industry will not be successful. The announcement of the Federal Government that it will strangle the South Australian wine industry over 7 years instead of five in no way satisfies that industry in my State. 
The claim that the Premier, as I have said, has made that he is not aligned with the socialist objectives of the Federal Government is not true. The South Australian Premier is guilty of taking a left turn to a far greater degree than his Federal colleagues. I cite 2 instances for the Minister for Police and Customs who is so disturbed by his State Leader. The State Labor Party in South Australia last month passed proposals for worker participation in our State which we know the State Premier is bound hand and foot to follow eventually by the pledge which he has given as a member of the Labor Party. Those proposals are not for worker participation but for worker control and would rival the control of industry by workers of any communist country in central Europe. In fact those proposals are to replace the boards of management by boards which will be composed one-third by representatives of owners, one-third by representatives of employees and one-third by appointees of the Government. That is the type of policy we have in South Australia. 

 Mr Dunstan will not prosper by throwing aside unpopular Federal Labor administration at this dme and going back to his own left wing policies which are, in fact, more left wing than those of the people from whom he tries to dissociate himself. Therefore, I should like to say that the Minister, who is so disturbed by his own State leader's action, will get his answer next Saturday. 
I support  Senator Withers'  motion, which is before the Senate, because I believe it is the only logical next course of action he could take. There are many questions as yet left unanswered. I think that the rule that one could run over the whole loans matter, which is an embarrassing one for the Government, is this: Is the question largely satisfied? 1 find, in looking at it and in reading the information available inside and outside the Senate, that the question is far from satisfied. 
There is no satisfactory conclusion to the question as to where the Loan Council stands and where the State Premiers stand in relation to their rights in regard to the Government's intention to borrow money from overseas. It is all very well for the Federal Government to say that the indebtedness of Australia is minimal. The State governments basically carry the debt of Australia. They have every right to know when the Government is going to introduce new and major loan borrowings as it intended to do from overseas. The matter of 'temporary purposes' and just what those purposes were is by no means outlined in any of the answers given by the Government. In a third question, there is no answer as to who will benefit individually from the allocation of these loans. This is something that has not yet been dealt with properly. 
The questions are unsatisfied. The Government has claimed that it has given all the answers it intends to give.  Senator James  McClelland said on television last night that the members of the public have been told all they need to know. In the face of that attitude,  Senator Withers  is showing an unusual amount of logic today. I have much pleasure in supporting his motion because most certainly the matter will not rest here. Does the Government believe that simply by denying further information to the Opposition and to the public, which is thirsting for it and which is being led by the media to obtain it, it can close the books? It cannot. 
This is an evolving situation. The Parliament has been tried and the Ministry has not answered. This is the second major attempt to obtain information which so far has not been available. If the Government is able to frustrate this move, something else will happen. If I were in the Opposition's position I would adjourn the Senate until 1 January next year and let the people decide in the meantime. Something will have to be done to find out just where the Government is culpable or where it is blameless, because it will not say. The Opposition's position is, of course, somewhat difficult. As I have said, it cannot let the matter rest here. It will be the Government's responsibility- I have no doubt that it will be the Government's responsibility- if the Opposition is forced into further action to obtain the information that it desires. 
I think that the matter of privilege which has been dealt with, of course, by the lawyers of the Senate and is to be dealt with further by the legal members of the Senate is something which could be settled happily by compromise under the motion put forward by  Senator Withers.  It would be a matter of qualified privilege. I am sure that the Senate would not try to force any questions which were the subject of privilege as between the Government and its advisers. In fact, by the very rejection of penalties it has given away the ability to enforce answers to such questions. The Opposition has made it clear that it does not desire to enter into that area of confidentiality which is paramount in Government administration. But it also has made it clear that it wishes to know what is proper and what has taken place in regard to certain communications which should take place automatically. The question of where the Loan Council stands is a matter in particular which could be satisfied by questions in the Senate. 
The question of innuendo has been raised. I suggest that the Government has fostered the unknown, the rumour and the innuendo by its failure to answer. As a South Australian senator I have been particularly interested in the frequent references to the Adelaide contacts. This is not about some of the other fanciful matters which have brought about the demise already of one Minister or about those matters which have been dealt with in truth in some other publications; it is a reference included in the documents tabled in this House by the Government and deals with the loans which the Minister was so urgently and in some cases so humiliatingly seeking. 
We have had references to the Adelaide contacts. In South Australia we have had some publicity in our newspapers about a  Mr Karidis  who was a personal friend of the Minister,  Mr Cameron.  We have other people who also have been publicised, and in these documents tabled by the Government there are references to the Adelaide contacts.  Mr Khemlani  in a communication to  Mr Connor  and  Mr Cameron  dated 1 December last year said in part:  1 have already informed my associates in Adelaide and given a message to them to convey to you . . . 
What was that message? Was it conveyed? Who was conveying it? Who were the Adelaide contacts? The Minister in reply to  Mr Khemlani  in London on 3 December, 3 days later, said: 
We have also asked through Adelaide whether draft documents could be sent out in advance of your visit and we hope for an early response to that enquiry. 
What contacts in Adelaide was the Minister,  Mr Connor,  dealing with? Who were they? How were they to benefit from the allocation of those moneys?  Mr Khemlani,  again on that day, sent a telex to the Minister and said:  1 shall be in touch with my associates in Adelaide. 
There is great curiosity in the capital city of my State about what is going on in Adelaide. What is the position of  Mr Karidis?  What is the position of the Minister,  Mr Cameron?  Recently- I will not overstate or understate this position- threats to a person's personal safety were made about the disclosure of material relating to these loans. When we reach that stage it makes one wonder who is benefiting. At what stage - 
Yes, indeed. I would be happy to furnish names and have those people called before the Senate in a private capacity to indicate who made those threats and have the matter out here where the innuendo will be ended. I take that no further at this moment. However, if that is the level to which this great discussion about the $4 billion loan is to be taken, if that is one aspect of it, it must certainly conjure up the vision of some funny money. It is not good enough for the Government to say: ' We close the books. We have told the public all it needs to know'. That is what the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Senator James McClelland)  has said. It is not the case. The questions are largely unanswered. The major questions are unsatisfied. We have to know the answers. 
I will be sorry if when this motion is passed, as I believe it will be, the result is not satisfactory. I will be sorry if the witnesses are not able to come forward and give selected answers according to their view as to what is confidential between them and the Ministers and what is pertinent to the general inquiry which the Senate is conducting, which, of course, would be the case. If that does not take place I can assure the Government that the public and, I assume, the Opposition, although I cannot speak for the Opposition, will not be satisfied and will take it further. What is the use of delaying this matter? What purpose is the Australian public served by carrying this on for weeks and perhaps difficult months with people involved as they have been in all directions and with Ministers losing their jobs over it? What is the purpose, for the proper administration of government in Australia, in the Government's denying in a blanket fashion all evidence before the Senate from its public servants? One can only assume that there are matters which the Government would find very embarrassing indeed if they were outlined in this House; not that they are matters simply of confidential advice from its advisers. They are matters which will reflect gravely on ministerial responsibility. This being the case I have pleasure in supporting  Senator Withers'  motion. 
by leave-  Mr President,  I would approve the general feeling of the Senate, expressed by the Party leaders, that  Mr Karidis  should be represented by counsel. 
Reference to Privileges Committee 
I move: 
That, pursuant to the Resolution of the Senate of 9 July 1 975,  Mr Gerasimos  Karidis of 1 5 Robe Terrace, Medindie, 
South Australia, be called to the Bar of the Senate, by summons under the hand of the  Clerk  of the Senate, on Tuesday. 22 July 1975, at half-past two p.m., and to attend from day to day until the Senate otherwise orders, to answer questions and produce all documents, files or papers in his possession, custody and control relevant to the matters relating to the Government's overseas loan activities referred to in the Senate's Resolution of 9 July 1975. 

 -Mr President -  (Government senators interjecting)- 
-Thank you. Could I ask  Mr Karidis  whether he was provided with any government services of any nature at all? 

 -Mr President, I thank the Leader of the Opposition for allowing me to proceed first. It is true that it was on my initiative that  Mr Karidis  was called here today. I am pleased to see  Mr Karidis  here,  Mr President,  because he is a South Australian success story. I hope he will be able to provide some of the information on the loans question which has been denied to us by the Government.  Mr Karidis,  could I ask you how you first became aware that funds of a substantial nature were available overseas, possibly for the Australian Government to borrow? 

 Mr Karidis By a connection I had in Hong Kong. 

 -Mr President, 3 references have been made in the documents tabled previously by the Leader of the Government in the Senate to 'Adelaide associates'. I think that is a general term that one could use. I would like to ask  Mr Karidis  who are his partners in this venture. As he freely claims that he is the 'Adelaide associate ' and as I understand that he has partners, I would like him to tell the Senate who are his partners in this venture in Adelaide. 

 Mr Karidis Mr President, I disclose I am the only connection on this deal. I have been introduced from some other business people from Adelaide to  Mr Khemlani-  before that to Hong Kong and then to  Mr Khemlani. 

 - Mr President, Mr Karidis said in his address to the Senate prior to the questioning beginning that he expected and hoped to obtain some commission from this loan arrangement. Could I ask  Mr Karidis  whether he had promised other persons or another person in Adelaide a share of his part of the commission for part of the work which was done in ascertaining the source of the loans? 

 Mr Karidis Mr President, if I was getting any commission, of course I promise because the people introduce me. 

 -Mr President, could I ask  Mr Karidis  who those people were in Adelaide whom he promised a part commission? 

 Mr Karidis Mr President, is it necessary to answer that question? 

 Mr Karidis Mr Tibor Shelley. He is the one who introduced me to  Mr Thomas  Yu at Hong Kong, and from there I have been introduced to  Mr Khemlani. 
-Thank you.  Mr President, Mr Karidis  stated in his earlier address that he had continuing business relationships with  Mr Khemlani.  Without of course prying into the personal aspects of detail of that, could  Mr Karidis  tell the Senate what is the nature of his continuing personal relationships with  Mr Khemlani  in Adelaide? 

 Mr Karidis Mr President 

-Thank you.  Mr President,  I wish to ask  Mr Karidis  what documents, if any, were given to him to confer on him some accreditation in his negotiations with  Mr Khemlani  and others. Did you have any documents to give you an accreditation from the Australian Government or a Minister? 

 Mr Karidis, Mr President, I will ask your permission to refer to my counsel before I answer that question. 

 -Did Mr Karidis believe,  Mr President,  that his group, including his partners if any- and certainly  Mr Khemlani  and himself- were competing on the international money market with the Harris group? 

 Mr Karidis, Mr President, I would like that question repeated please. 

 -Mr President, does  Mr Karidis  believe that his search for funds with  Mr Khemlani  was in competition with  Mr Harris  who was acting with  Mr Cairns  in searching for funds? 

 Mr Karidis, We worried about competition. But we did not know it was  Mr Harris  or anybody else. But we very well knew about it. We had been disturbed many times. 
I take it then,  Mr Karidis,  you did know of contacts being made as a basis for your being worried but you did not know who was making the contacts? 

 Mr Karidis, No. 
-Did you at any time involve yourself with the Harris group or contact the Harris group? Before  Mr Karidis  answers that question,  Mr President,  I would just like to refer to a communication from the Australian High Commission in London to Australia, in which it was said that Morgan Grenfells had received a call from a  Mr Harris,  who was accompanied by a  Mr Nagy  and, in a simple description, 'a Greek'. This is mentioned at page 3564 of the House of Representatives Hansard of 9 July. Did you have any contact with the Harris group and could that by any chance have been you? 

 Mr Karidis, Mr President, I do not know who  Mr Harris  is. I only saw his face in the paper. I do not know him and I have never met him at all. 
You were not present at that meeting? 

 Mr Karidis, Never. 
I ask now,  Mr President:  Did  Mr Karidis  or  Mr Khemlani  at any time press the Government for funds or expenses? 

 Mr Karidis, Mr President, never, because it was very clear from  Mr Connor's  office that there was nothing to get on this side. We had to get it on the other end if we come up with the goods. 

 - Mr President, you may be pleased to know that I am coming to the end of my questions. I ask  Mr Karidis:  was he aware of any conditions attached to the loans which were proffered or considered? Were there any conditions concerning international trade by Australia or any diplomatic relationships by Australia? 

 Mr Karidis, Mr President, I would ask your permission to refer to my counsel before I answer that question. 
I wish to ask a question regarding paragraph (b) of this proposed new standing order. It says that questions may be put to the  chairman  of a committee relating to the activities of that committee provided that: 
They shall not attempt to interfere with the Committee's work . . . 
That seems to me to be an imprecise and vague way of expressing an intention not to impede a committee's work. The words 'shall not attempt to interfere with the Committee's work' could, I imagine, encompass a critical question. It would seem to me, under some construction of that phrase, that a critical question about a committee's work, or its intention or the path that it was following, could be answered simply by the  chairman  saying that the question interfered with the work of the committee. I know that this is a fairly small point. This would be one of the vaguest standing order references that I can remember. The words are 'shall not attempt to interfere with the Committee 's work '. I wonder if the Manager of Government Business in the Senate  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  has some explanation of why this provision is expressed in such vague terms. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. In view of the precarious balance outlined last night by the Treasurer in that he is predicting an increase of 22 per cent in the average male weekly earnings for this financial year, I ask: What measures are the Minister and the Government taking to support private employers who are expected to resist over-award claims for increased wages in view of the Government's proclaimed support for wage indexation? 
I address my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. As the Government's financial statement for July this year indicates that Government outlays were up by $585m or 53 per cent compared with July last year while receipts were up by only $10m or less than 1 per cent, and the deficit was up by $575m or more than 300 per cent compared with last July, I ask the Minister: Were there special factors which caused what appears to be a disastrous July result? If there were not special factors, does he believe the Budget introduced last week can restrain the deficit within the Treasurer's calculations? 
By and large I agree substantially with the remarks of  Senator Bunton.  I believe that this Bill is of far too technical a nature and of too great importance to the defence Services to be used as any propaganda base in this debate. But one thing that has intrigued me is this: The Bill has been introduced in all its detail and as it should do, clearly sets out the Government's intentions. They are there for all to see. Those intentions are based on the Tange report which has been available since late 1 973. The Bill therefore is no surprise to Parliament nor to the Senate. I state again that it clearly sets out the Government's intentions. 
Over the years the Liberal Party in government or in opposition has taken a great deal of interest in the issue of defence. In some cases it has claimed a pre-eminence of expertise in this area and from its general propaganda statements on this Bill would seem still to claim that preeminence. Yet I find it strange and intriguing that there are no amendments on file concerning this Bill. My mind goes to one other very intricate measure which came before the Senate. That was the trade practices legislation dealing with the commercial and industrial world right across Australia. It had immense ramifications for all of this nation. Whilst I did not agree with the major amendments put up by the Opposition, I must say that I give Opposition senators full credit for the amount of work that they did on that legislation and for the intricate detail which was presented in their amendments. They basically knew the effect of their amendments, in all their detail, on the commercial and industrial world. 
Yet today we have what is apparently very strongly held views of general opposition to some aspects of this change- not to the concept because Opposition speakers have not claimed any opposition to the general concept of integration of the defence forces- and a strongly maintained claim of opposition to some rather vague matters of detail. Opposition senators have not emerged with one amendment. We are therefore unable to debate the points that the Opposition has mentioned in the broad. I am very disappointed that we are unable to mount a debate on this issue because that is what it amounts to. There is no debate on this measure in the Senate. I should like that point to go on record. There can be no debate if there are no amendments. 
There can only be a thrust of Party propaganda in the broad. This unfortunately is what we have had today. It disappoints me. I cannot claim that the Opposition is totally wrong in its case here today. I have not heard its case. That is what worries me: I have not heard its case. I find it strange that with the many advisers that the Opposition has in the private field and those supplied by the Public Service, we have not heard in detail the changes that should be made. 
Let me just mention in passing in this brief address that I will make to the subject, the several complaints that have been made to me and which no doubt are very genuinely held by people who have been deeply involved in the past in Australia's defence organisation. There has been one fairly slight area of complaint on command. I think the mention at some length in the House of Representatives of the position of the Governor-General is not taken very seriously by those who have been involved in the various representations to members of the Senate or to members of the lower House. But from the arguments which are outlined in the  Hansard reports  of the House of Representatives debate and from the debate that has taken place here today, I believe that the Opposition has in no way been able to discredit the. Government's claim that the line of command is clearer now under this legislation than under the legislation it is amending or repealing. No argument that has been put up in writing or in words today has been able to discredit that Government claim. Therefore on the merits of the arguments and of representations that have been put to me, I can find nothing to support a claim by the Opposition which in no way is translated into substantive amendment. 
There has been another claim that a single Minister responsible in this direct fashion as outlined in this Bill cannot encompass all the expertise which is required to maintain the 3 Services and the administration which must supply them. One is at first instance, perhaps, a little impressed with this, although on a lengthier study of the Cabinet structure, I find it a little incredible that a Minister could not properly carry out his administrative duties as provided by this Bill, over the 3 Services. Any person looking at the whole ramifications of government must agree with the importance of foreign affairs to the future safety of this nation. Yet we entrust that as a portfolio to one person. Surely the intricate detail of dealing with the rest of the world in all the areas of representation with Australia is indeed an intricate and a dangerous area in which to operate. Yet we entrust it to one person. I think in making a comparison of Cabinet responsibilities, the issue of having one Minister falls to the ground. As I understand the organisation, the Minister for Defence has a Minister assisting him. I believe that criticism has not been supported by the Opposition and does not float in its argument. 
We come to perhaps a matter of some greater concern and that is the matter of the diarchy or the direarchy as I think  Senator Carrick  called it. I suppose that anyone could imagine some conflict here where in some ways there is left unspecified the line of demarcation between the Secretary of the Department and the supremo in the name of the Chief of Defence Force Staff. It is no doubt of valid concern to know how these people will mix their responsibilities and how they will efficiently carry out their duties in view of the fact that they are equal in their authority in their own spheres under the control of the Minister. But as I have said, those spheres have not been totally defined as yet. I believe that here again the Minister's clear authority to direct is such that it would be his responsibility to ensure that the defence forces were run efficiently and were not bedevilled by personality clashes or claims for parallel authority or identical authority by the Supremo of the Services and the Secretary of the Department. 
I believe that the more one looks at the claims which have been made in the broad as criticism of this measure the more one comes back to ministerial authority. There has been no disclaimer- of course, there cannot be any disclaimer- that the Parliament through Cabinet, through the Ministry, must be supreme in the authority finally given to our defence Services. So I think that that again answers the criticisms sufficiently at least to provide reason for the Bill to be passed. I would add that qualification. I join with members of the Opposition who express concern about that dual authority. As I said, it does not involve 3 people and there cannot be a voting majority; it involves only 2 people, which in some senses can be likened to an equally divided House. However, I believe that if such matters are left to rest on the Minister's authority, that is sufficient reason to give it a try. Again the Opposition has provided no alternative. After all, that is what the Parliament is about. We are not here trying to win an election; we are not stumping in the Domain; we are in Parliament where Bills are passed, defeated or amended. 
I think that  Senator Jessop  came into the chamber a little after I started my speech. I dealt with that matter to some degree earlier. I do not criticise that aspect, but what I do say is that one matter which intrigues me and which I mentioned earlier concerning the fact that the Government knew what it wanted and the Opposition did not is this: Half of the debating time of the Opposition has been taken in lecturing the Senate on committees. In simple terms, that leaves me cold. Obviously committees do some very useful work. However, I have used the example of the complexities of the restrictive trade practices legislation to show that the Opposition can, when it wants, make up its mind in the most complex detail and it can present that detail as its argument, and that is the way in which one goes about impressing one's will on others in relation to legislation. But in this case it has not done that, and that is my answer to  Senator Jessop.  I have said: 'Let us not, please, have any more lectures on the capacity or the desirability of committees'. In a sense I believe that the Opposition's comments on this Bill simply mean- I do not say this in any unkind way; I say it in a factual way- that the Opposition has not done any work on the Bill. That is the truth of the matter. The Opposition has not produced its work here. I do not know what is the reason for that, but that is the fact of the case. 
The various criticisms that have been made- I have said that they have been made by some very well meaning and very well versed peopleseem to me to centre on the fact that the Opposition is worried about the diarchy, the Secretary of the Department of Defence and the Supremo of the Services. The Opposition worries about the single Minister and it worries about the lack of a defence council. It seems to me that the matter of the 2 somewhat equal persons in charge of our defence forces, the matter of the single Minister and a number of other subsidiary, if vague, criticisms could be met to a large degree if there were a defence council, because it would formalise more the position of the chiefs of staff in their relationship with the Minister. The Bill sets out clearly that the chiefs of staff may be called on by the Minister to advise him. I am not certain whether that advice is given only at the invitation of the Minister on every occassion. I take it that it would. I do not know what informality may be built into that provision. However, we are dealing with the Bill. The Minister may request advice from individual chiefs of staff. Without doubt, they could go to their Minister through the Chief of Defence Force Staff, but no doubt they would feel a little upgraded and a little more secure in their Service leadership position if they were a member of a defence council. Of all the objections or defections that the Opposition has seen in the minor part of this legislationagain I say to the Senate that it approves the conceptthe thing that impresses me most is the criticism concerning the lack of a defence council. 
-But I am told that in England the Chiefs of Staff meet directly with Cabinet Ministers. I think the honourable senator must admit that that is not envisaged in that formal sense in this legislation, and I think that is sufficient answer to that criticism. I am a little impressed, therefore, with the view that a defence council, if formed, would have a public relations stance and yet provide a more secure participation in the hierarchy of defence by the chiefs of staff. I would have thought that it would be quite the simplest of things to write such a provision into this Bill. One spokesman for the Opposition in the lower House has outlined his vision of a defence council. He has suggested that the council be made up- I do not wish to misquote him but I believe this is so- of the 3 chiefs of staff, the Secretary of the Department of Defence and the Minister, who I have no doubt would be the  chairman.  I suggest the Chief of Defence Force Staff could be added to that list. If the defence council had 5 members comprising the 3 chiefs of staff, the Chief of Defence Force Staff, who is their higher command, the Secretary of the Department and the Minister as  chairman,  we would have an excellent defence council. If the Minister was not available because he was overseas or elsewhere his nominee could take his place. 
Such an addition to the legislation would provide a wonderful advisory body. Why is it not there? It would be the simplest thing to encompass such a provision in five or six lines, and why we are not arguing for its inclusion as an amendment, I do not know. I do not intend to move that as an amendment. I would be very sympathetic to such a proposal if it were moved, lt would not upset the legislation one iota. It would not cross authority. It would do nothing but help. The wording of such a provision could be worked out very easily. I believe that in general terms it would meet all the other criticisms I have heard. If the Opposition wanted to go away and think about amendments, I would be happy to support a motion for the adjournment of the second reading debate on the Bill for that reason. I think that any reasonable person would be prepared to do that. If there were some move, even at this late stage, to insert a provision, in that form or any other form, which answers the points raised by genuine and well meaning critics of the legislation, I would be very happy to join with other honourable senators in considering it. I cannot support the generalised proposal to refer the Bill to a committee when this House is charged with the responsibility of dealing with the Bill. It has fulfilled that responsibility admirably in argument and in discussion in relation to many other complex and important matters, and I see no reason to differentiate with this legislation. So I join with the Opposition in approving the concept of the legislation. I have seen no valid criticism translated into what I regard as an attempt at providing effective legislation. Therefore I support the Bill, but I say to the Opposition that I would support any motion which sought to adjourn the debate until next week if the Opposition thought that it would like to move some amendments to the Bill. 
I believe that one of the most unsatisfactory features of this question is, as I said on Thursday, the failure of the Opposition to come forward with amendments to support its general vague criticisms of the Government. I believe that the debate last Thursday ended with a reference to a defence council. My own remarks were directed in this area. I think most of the criticisms that I could discern, which could be distilled to any recognisable form, would be satisfied to a large measure by the emergence of a defence council. I suggested that during the weekend the Opposition, if it were interested in the criticisms that had been made, might be able to evaluate the effectiveness of a defence council as a way of bringing together in a more formal manner various areas of defence and thereby still the criticisms that some areas of the defence forces may be subjugated to others without being able to meet with others and put forward their views. 
As I understand that some discussion has taken place on this question, 1 ask the PostmasterGeneral  (Senator Bishop)  whether he can offer the Committee anything by way of the provision of a defence council. I understand that a meeting similar to a defence council has in fact been in progress during the term of office of the present Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison)  and of former Ministers for Defence. Can the PostmasterGeneral indicate whether there might be some formalisation of a defence council? 
I believe that the commitment now of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison)  to the establishment of a Council of Defence that will meet at least four times yearly in some measure meets the criticisms that have been put to me personally by people interested in the defence forces and in some measure meets the criticisms that have been put here generally by the Opposition. Opposition senators are interjecting. Despite the interjections, I believe that it does because members of the Opposition have in the main not pinpointed any direct faults in this legislation but have dealt really with the relationships within it between the armed Services. I should think that the commitment to the establishment of a Council of Defence is at least one step further towards meeting the criticisms that have been made. I thank the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  for the commitment he has given on behalf of his colleague. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I do not think anyone on this side of the chamber would disagree with  Senator Gietzelt  when he said that not all the answers facing the private sector will be found in this Budget. None of us would declare for a minute that that was the case and for different reasons no doubt we would come to the same conclusion. However, I believe that the Budget passes one test- that is, the political test. There has been enough apparent change in the Budget under the guidance of the new Treasurer,  Mr Hayden,  for him and the Government to claim credit politically for any fortuitous circumstances that may arise during the 12 months, if the Government lives that long, that this Budget will live. It is apparent that the rather favourable public reception through the media of Australia of the change in personal income tax scales and the means by which they are arrived at, and the supression of" departmental requests for expenditure to a level which will keep the deficit in monetary terms to that of the last financial year has meant that the Budget has passed some sort of political test. I do not believe, though, that it has passed anything of the nature of a practical test. It is not good enough for the Treasurer to state that he has made dramatic cuts in government expenditure simply by confronting departmental advisers and departmental heads and saying to them: 'We will cut your expenditure from what you want to spend which would give us a deficit of $5,000m so as to produce a deficit of just over $2,500m'. I think everyone realises upon quiet reflection that every department and every government anywhere in the world will ask for more money on the Estimates than they think they will get. It is simply no answer for the Treasurer to use that argument which every Treasurer every year must take in confronting the over-anxious departments in relation to their intended expenditure. 
A great deal has been made, I believe, of the essential point in the Budget documents. It appears in the attachments to the Budget Speech at page 106 of the House of Representatives  Hansard,  where it simply says: 
Underlying this estimate are assumptions that average weekly earnings per employed male unit will increase by 22 percent . . . 
That is a short part of the great volume of the Budget documents, yet it details the concern of the Government and the problems which have beset the people in the community both as private individuals and as operators in the private business sector of the commercial and industrial community. If the Government is accepting an increase in average earnings of 22 per cent it must obviously admit, as it does- I must give credit to the Treasurer for that- that it expects Australia to continue through a year of what cannot be termed anything but disastrous inflation. It hopes to moderate it, I think as a  speaker  has said today, by a few significant points. I think words to that effect were used by  Senator James  McClelland who spoke this morning. It is a dark and gloomy outlook to face yet another year of inflation just reduced and only just reduced below the rate which existed last year. Therefore we are continuing on knowingly and budgeting for a rate of inflation which no country with our type of government has proven it can accept and still maintain its democratic base. Indeed, in Britain today is a continuing manifestation in the political turmoil, in the administrative turmoil and in the social turmoil of that country of the effects of inflation which is probably 30 per cent or 40 per cent higher than we have in Australia. If ever there is an example of how we cannot afford to accept this position it lies in the United Kingdom. It is not sufficient for honourable senators opposite to say that this is therefore a problem which exists around the world. A study of the figures relating to comparable countries will show that Australia is among the highest on the list of inflation rates. We have at the same time many favourable factors existing in this country's economic base which do not exist in countries in other parts of the world with comparable or higher rates of inflation. We ought not to have the high rate of inflation that we have, given the advantages that we have in comparison with those countries. 
It has been interesting to read in passing in the first week or so following the presentation of the Budget the general comments which have been made. One perhaps which would have struck home fairly hard to the Labor Party was the comment by Professor Wheelwright which was well featured. It seems that Professor Wheelwright stood behind the public remarks of  Dr Cairns  who, of course, advocated a Budget of quite another nature without the more responsible attitude- and one must use that term- that  Mr Hayden  has displayed. Professor Wheelwright believes that this Budget will bring disaster to the community. We hope that he is wrong, but he does point up from a left wing point of view, I think it is fair to say, concern within the Labor Party's own ranks at the effects of this Budget. In the United Kingdom, as I have said, there are further manifestations of the problem of union demands which have been quite impossible to resist whether the government in Westminster has been a Tory government or a Labour government. All of this has given us a warning somewhat ahead of time that we ought to accept. 
In this regard I must say that I stand in some admiration of the forthright attitude  Senator James  McClelland has taken in this House to the problems which now confront him. They are obviously problems which he has freely accepted; otherwise he would not have accepted a ministerial position. I think it is all the more commendable that he has accepted what may be the most onerous of all positions in the Government, and that is to face squarely the main issues which he freely admits and very adroitly and properly catalogued in his speech this morning. He faces the issues which are.basic to our rate of inflation. I believe his attitude demands and has earned the support of all honourable senators. I am not saying that I support his Government or that I support the wider manifestations of his Party's policies or the wider manifestations of his own political policies, but in the job that he has been selected to do and in the forthright manner in which he has gone about it I believe he has certainly earned the support of this House. I am pleased to state that publicly whatever the political consequences could be. 
I think that we are witnessing quite significant political change within the Labor Party. It is easy to oversimplify what must be very complex moves within a major party such as the Labor Party, but to an outside observer it would seem that the Labor Party was led, if one may use that term, by the policies which would be epitomised by  Dr Cairns  and  Mr Clyde  Cameron right up until the early part of this year. They were policies which I think were evident on a very small scale in South Australia which is but a small part of the Commonwealth. A Labor government came to office in the State in 1 965, where a Labor government had not seen office for 32 years. It ignored the consequences of spending freely without regard to where the funds were to come from. The consequences of that were severe by our local scale. I think we have seen on a much wider basis and in a deeper sense that same reckless adventure federally through the policies, as I have said, which have been so visibly represented by  Dr Cairns  and  Mr Clyde  Cameron. It surely must be typical in the existence of the Labor Party in office that now 2 gentlemen have so prominently adopted a corrective attitude within the limits of their political area of operation- gentlemen such as  Mr Hayden  and  Senator James  McClelland. It surely is a very great convulsion in a party to have a consensus accept that change of attitude and action as Labor has done. It will be interesting to watch in the future months whether that consensus stands behind the obviously blunt and determined attitude wich has been adopted on the industrial front by  Senator James  McClelland. 
At the same time, while these gentlemen face this most difficult task, there has been a far less desirable move by people within the Labor Party but outside the Federal parliamentary scene who, acting like political jackals, have been manoeuvring for top Federal parliamentary positions. I refer to  Mr Hawke  and  Mr Dunstan.  I think that it does them little good and says little for their attitude to the real issues facing this community that they should discuss so provocatively and publicly the Federal leadership of their own Party without contributing one iota to the stability of the Federal Government. It is interesting to note that whenever a crisis occurs in the Federal Labor Party Governmentwhether it be the loans affair, the Bass byelection or any of the other innumerable consecutive and continuing items-  Mr Hawke  is overseas or is not available; he is never in the thick of the fight. 
It was interesting also to watch  Mr Dunstan,  the South Australian Premier, advocating on television last night that  Mr Hawke  be the Prime Minister. One wonders whether he is using  Mr Hawke  as a stalking horse for his own case. It was not an unnoticed or unplanned episode that national television should be so dealt that piece of effrontery last night by 2 gentlemen who take none of the brunt, who will run always from the hard and most difficult fight in which their Party is involved and yet who manoeuvre for the top position their Party can offer any of its parliamentarians. I see, therefore, 3 segments of the Party. There are the discredited who have gone from the Cabinet or were relegated to very insignificant parts of it in the  Dr Cairns  and  Mr Cameron  episodes; there is the hard fight being conducted now by  Senator James  McClelland and  Mr Hayden;  and there are those 2 people who, without credit to themselves, are manoeuvring outside the field for the spoils of office, without facing any of the responsibility that their colleagues here have to face. 
There is a complete consensus in the Senate concerning the need to rehabilitate the private sector. Theoretically, of course, there ought to be some sort of pragmatic link between the fortunes of industry and commerce and the fortunes of Labor in Federal Government. The Labor Party seems to be allied very directly, at least in its propaganda, to the theme of consumerism, to upgrading the spending capacity of those whom it pretends at times to represent. In theory, that ought to widen the market for industrial goods and the attention needed by the commercial community to the servicing and selling of those goods. However, that is simply theoretical and does not exist in practice. We have seen this Government destroy confidence through move after move in the Federal scene. This has left private industry bereft of leadership in the initial instances and then bereft of the support systems it needs to flourish, to grow and now even to exist. 
There have been too many reports in recent weeks about the failure of smaller businesses. Some statisticians calculate that smaller businesses in this community employ something like 1.2 million members of our work force. If there is a continuing rundown in the number of small businesses there will be a very grievous loss to employment in this community; but worse than that in the longer term will be the loss of the dynamic growth of industry in general because the innovations that the smaller businesses bring to industry are so much a matter of support for large industries. How often in recent times have we read of industrial processes being taken over by larger organisations and developed at a cost of many millions of dollars, industrial processes which have been developed at times by one individual. That is the essence of the small business. It is not just to take a share of so much commercial or industrial activity; it is to be part of the inner sense of the growth itself. We will suffer a grievous loss if by the manipulation of our tax structures we cannot take some different attitude to small business to make sure that it is encouraged and not lost to the industrial and commercial community. 
There are many other reasons why this Government has lost the confidence of industry. Issues which stand to one side of industry itselfissues such as the loans affair, which has been discussed so well in this Parliament- have not given any cause for confidence in the administrative capacity of this Government. The last time the loans affairs was discussed in this chamber a private witness attended. After that witness had left and when we were not in possession of any further facts concerning the loans affair, one thing stood out from the very fact that we did not have any further information. It was that this Government had set out, through its senior Ministers, to raise the unheard of figure of $4 billion through one of its intermediaries who, on his own admission, was an important part of the contact system, and he did not know what the Loan Council was about, he did not know the price of emission of the loan, he did not know how much the commission would be and he did not know who would pay it. It was not, therefore, an advantage to the Senate to get any information from that witness, but it .certainly was an advantage to know that he did not possess any information. The raising of $4 billion from a person who knows nothing of the private or public aspects of finance is one of the most preposterous propositions that any person could make, and that sort of activity has not helped to impress the business community. 
As I said earlier, it is agreed that we need a better productive base in Australia to provide the living standard which we have all set for ourselves. No one in this chamber disagrees with that. It is simply a matter of how we are to go about it. It is agreed that we must reduce the rate of inflation. We must reduce it until it pays to save, to accumulate and to invest in the types of industries which are basic to our continuing high standard of living. Today, when the rate of inflation far exceeds anything like a normal rate of interest, it does not pay to save. Many people in this community are aware of what is called 'inflation psychology'. One of my friends, who happens to be a successful businessman, said to me the other day: 'I notice so much this year the difference in the attitude of the customer. Last year the wholesalers used to say that they would take another 1000 units if I would reduce the price by 5c a unit. That was a normal business attitude. I would haggle and we would come to an arrangement. This year they do not even ask the price for the same items. They simply ring up and ask me to send them 1000 units or 5000 units. Far from haggling on the final unit price, they do not even ask what it is'. 
All of us have had the experience from time to time of seeing friends or acquaintances taking action to counter the rate of inflation and the cruel raid it makes on their rate of savings. We see today people improving their homes or the contents of their homes, knowing that next year those improvements will cost 20 per cent more. We have seen how savings money terms have gone into some fixed asset. We have seen the flight from support of public companies and the funds that they need, and the scramble in which they have had to engage to get the funds to carry their inventory of stock. All of this is agreed and is not really in dispute. 
We have come to this situation where the Government has admitted and quite freely stated that the cause currently of the continuing rate of inflation in this country lies basically at the root of unreasonable wage demands. So the Government has committed itself to wage indexation and the much harder task of making it work. That is a task which, in the opinion of so many people in the community and in industry today, grows harder almost by the hour. I know for instance as every senator would know of the many instances where wage indexation is being broken every day of the week in Australia. I was in contact with a company in Adelaide several weeks ago which, much to my dismay, eventually gave in under the demand of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union for a significant addition to the already existing over award payments. That company had something like $4m in one outstanding contract and to continue to resist the demand of the AMWU would of course not only have wrecked the profitability of that company perhaps for the rest of this financial year but would have lost to South Australia a contract of very great substance. What could that company do? What could the Government expect that company to do? Was the company to go broke? Was it to say to its shareholders: 'You are a sacrifice for indexation; whereas we know some competitor of ours in Sydney or Melbourne or some other part of South Australia will not resist and we will be gone for no good reason whatsoever'. It added sting to that defeat to know that at least four of the senior employees of that company who were out on strike were receiving social service benefits for unemployment at the same time. 
I do not blame the Minister for that and I commend him for his recent decision which has been the cause to him of some controversy today. But we know it happens. Politicians are not policemen. I know those people involved by name, but I will not state their names. We are not policemen and we must never involve ourselves in that role. But it is, as I say, very galling to know of these things and to know that a shop steward who is a principal in a strike is on unemployment relief during the strike that he has caused. This is not good enough in this society. Obviously a great deal more has to be done and, with the Minister's present attitude, I do not expect him to be lax. He will probably do what has to be done. But it is not a task which is easy and it is not a pleasant prospect for a government to be asking industry to support indexation while another arm of that government inadvertently, and unwillingly of course, but still actively, is supporting through the arm of social service the very strike which is harmful to Government policies and which is striking at the very basis of the Government's attempts to control inflation. I am sure that the Minister has that in mind. 
There have been many headlines which have been given a great deal of attention in recent times. One of the most disturbing related to the oil industry shut-down threat which I think appeared in the  Australian  .newspaper, and reads: 'Oil shutdown threat by union militants: Bid to wreck indexation gathers pace'. The article states: 
Fuel supplies throughout Australia- and the Federal Government's attempts to impose wage indexation- hang on a crucial meeting between ACTU officials and representatives of the oil companies. 
So the report proceeds. My contacts in industry tell me that they are pessimistic about the survival of indexation, that they pessimistically believe that the, perhaps, drop in the tempo of wage demands at this moment is temporary and that the continuing rise in the price structure of the goods and services in this community will bring about yet another wave of demands in the next few months almost equal to that of last year. I hope that this is not the case. I put it to the Government however that it has to do more to make indexation work. It is a subject of some division in this community. The industrial community and the commercial community are divided as to whether they support indexation or not. 
No one, I suggest, however has brought up a better alternative at this stage and that is the crux of whether it ought to be supported or not. What is the alternative? The alternative seems to be simply to say in this community that union demands will be led off in those crucial industries such as oil supply; they will set the standard for the rest of industry which does not quite have that throttle hold on the community. From there each time we will get the conflagration in wage demands which stand behind something like 16 per cent to 20 per cent in the rate of inflation. I suggest that the Government will have to look deliberately at something which perhaps would be more politically contentious than anything else it could handle, and that is to support financially companies which stand up for indexation. I could imagine the turmoil that that would cause in the Labor Party, or for that matter within any party. But I suggest that there again it may very well be a matter of alternatives. We look at Britain and the uncontrolled union demands which have been so ably written about by  Mr Paul  Johnson, who is continuing the articles he wrote in the  New Statesman  in I think further articles in today's  Sydney Morning Herald.  He divides the ideology of the unions from that of a Labor government. He calls it syndicalism rather than socialism. 
I suggest that the Government should set up a fund. It should have some sort of controlling authority to assess the intentions and the performance of a company involved in standing up to over award demands. It should support, by payment to a company which stands beside it on wage indexation, a high percentage of loss of profit that the company incurs in standing against unjustified wage demands. 
It would be a fund of some great consequence. I understand from my brief research into the matter that company profits in Australia, I think a couple of years ago- it is hard to get a final figure- are something of the order of $4,000m; that is, taxable profits. If you were however to divide that amount by the many, many times by which it would be divided, and consider the effectiveness that a government policy without penalty- of course penalties are not to be considered in this present situation; they will not work- you would find that by the establishment of a fund of this nature some few hundred million dollars in a year would certainly break the opposition to indexation which will come from what are, after all, only the militant unions of this community who are no longer supported by anything else than a small minority of Australians. 
I would support action across the board. 
-That of course is the attitude which unfortunately would develop. I am assuring the Minister,  Senator Cavanagh,  that I do not expect such a decision to be promulgated by one Minister or one individual. There would have to be a proper body of assessment. Let me say to  Senator Cavanagh  that his Party has in these last recent months paid substantial sums of money to companies for various reasons. Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd in Tasmania is an example of a company which freely has had a handout to support employment. 
Yes, of course and so is my contention to help them. The Minister, if he stands behind indexation, obviously must consider every measure to make it work. The alternatives are what is in effect the whole voice of the Senate and the concern that both sides of this Senate show for the Budget and the promise or lack of promise which it gives to this community. I again state that I appreciate  Senator James  McClelland 's determined attitude and wish him success in the hardest of all jobs that Australia could offer any politician. I hope that with his much greater resources, he will consider in much greater detail the suggestion about supporting financially those companies which lose profits through standing up for indexation and supporting the Government's policy on it. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Northern Australia whether, in view of conflicting reports emanating from Darwin as to very serious delays in providing housing prior to the forthcoming wet season in the Northern Territory, he is aware that the South Australian industries which supply transportable homes are in a position to provide at least 500 additional transportable homes for the Darwin area before Christmas if they are requested to do so? 
I want to make a brief statement about the speculation concerning the possibility of an election. I do so as a non-Labor politician who was happy enough this week to support an amendment which was put forward by the Opposition and which was critical of this Government's handling of its Budget and of its general approach to economic affairs in Australia. Having said that I want to say that I am concerned, as so many people are concerned, about what is so obvious. None of us and none of those who are so closely associated with this place can be so innocent as not to be able to recognise the momentum that is running within the Opposition parties for an election. The content of various speeches of members of the Opposition in the Senate can leave one with no other impression than that the Opposition is looking for the first spark that it can find to ignite the procedures that will lead to an election. I believe that this is something that is dangerous for Australia, dangerous for the institution of Parliament itself and, as I will point out directly, possibly very dangerous indeed for the Opposition itself. I therefore take the opportunity to protest at what is obviously recognisable, to say that I do not support it and to appeal to those members of the Opposition who have previously- privately or publicly- expressed their view that it is wrong for the Senate to deny the right of a government to exist except under quite extraordinary circumstances. 
The choice in these matters is as always. It is the matter of the survival of the institution versus the purposes of a party, its ideology and the short term considerations as to whether a government is performing properly. There has been a great deal of comment in the last few months in particular and over the last few years in general concerning the propriety of an Upper House such as the Senate, that is not properly based on the electors of Australia but based for its elective purposes on the population of States, which has no regard to any particular weight and value of votes, taking certain action. A great deal has been said about this matter. I remind the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  of the remarks of his own people in this regard. I say directly to the Leader of the Opposition in this House that I hope for his own party's sake as well as for the sake of the institution that he will not be able to marshal the numbers in this House to reject this Budget. I will not join him in helping in that rejection. 
A well known member of the Liberal Party of Australia made some significant comments about this matter last year when it was controversial. I refer to the Honourable  Mr Killen,  who has been quite outspoken about the rejection of Supply in the Senate. On 1 1 April 1 974 he said: 
The Senate has the power to force the House of Representatives to the people but the House of Representatives cannot force the Senate to the people. 
I will go on directly and say how the situation is the reverse now. 

 - Mr President, there is one matter in respect of which I wholeheartedly agree with  Senator Carrick,  and that is the matter of optional preferential voting for lower house elections. I congratulate him on his stand against that proposal because it certainly is a deliberate attempt to break down the preferential system of voting. I only wish that the Liberal Party of Australia thought that in depth, because the latest and most notable action that the Liberal Party is taking on the matter of optional preferential voting is to support the system in parliament. In South Australia the Leader of the Opposition in the Upper House, the Legislative Council, has actively, openly and publicly said this week, and I think last week, that he will support the Bill providing for optional preferential voting which was brought into the Legislative Assembly of the South Australian Parliament by the Labor Party and which is due to be considered in the Upper House in South Australia next week. Therefore I noted with a great deal of interest that  Senator Carrick  said that optional preferential voting was a device designed to wreck the one vote one value system. I will have very much pleasure in transmitting the remarks which  Senator Carrick  made in this chamber to his colleagues in South Australia in what I fear will be a vain attempt to head off the person who leads the Liberal Party in the Upper House in South Australia and who very few people would doubt leads the Liberal Party in the entire Parliament in my State. I would very much appreciate it if  Senator Carrick  could in some way personally contact  Mr de  Garis to head oft" what in fact will be a disaster for non-Labor in South Australia, which has been initiated by the Liberal Party's representative in the Upper House in that State. 
I find little else in  Senator Carrick  's address with which I agree. I often wonder how  Senator Carrick  and his colleagues, including  Senator Davidson  from South Australia who spoke at such length about the reasons why there should not be an equality of representation, would get on if they knocked on the doors of the houses in the city of Adelaide and said to the people: 'I have come to tell you why you should have a lower value in your vote than country people should have'. I just wonder how  Senator Carrick  would go. 
-Of course, the whole tenor of  Senator Carrick  's address was a defence of a system which gives unequal rights of voting.  Senator Carrick  said that a country member of parliament needs some leeway in the weighting of votes so that he can service his district.  Senator Carrick  has been represented in this Parliament by  Mr Anthony  in another place. 
-Senator Carrick was represented at the Joint Sitting by Country Party spokesmen, and in other debates in the House of Representatives he has been represented by  Mr Anthony  who has spoken on behalf of the Opposition. When did  Senator Carrick  get up and deny what  Mr Anthony  had said? How would  Senator Carrick  like to attend city areas and to knock on doors specifically to explain his party's electoral policy by saying to those people at the door: 'I do not think you should have as much say as country people in making laws which are before Federal Parliament concerning a loan Bill, a national health Bill, the Interstate Commission Bill, and the Ombudsman Bill.' That is just naming 5 Bills. The honourable senator would say: 'I do not think you, a city dweller in Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane or Perth should have as much say as a person in Whyalla or some outback area in some other State '. 
-This would be the measure of the task.  Senator Jessop  has failed in South Australia to convey that argument with any force at all. This week in South Australia a Bill is in the process of being passed despite the representations of  Senator Carrick  's colleagues over many years. The Bill which is passing in South Australia this week will establish democracy in South Australia for the first time since the inception of the Westminster style of government. In South Australia after this week, next week or perhaps a week or two longer- certainly within this month- in the Upper House an electoral Bill will be passed which will enable all future distributions to be established on the basis of only a 10 per cent weighting between electorates despite where people live. There will be an automatic redistribution after a certain number of years and it will not be subject to the scrutiny of Parliament. This takes the matter of electoral justice out of the hands of the personal or party ambitions of politicians. It is one of the models for electoral distribution in Australia. 
I only wish the Federal Parliament could shed its personal and party ambitions and look favourably on these Bills which are before the Senate. They establish a form of justice which  Senator Jessop  does not like. I say that  Senator Jessop,  over a number of years, will be totally incapable of preventing the passage of these Bills. An example has been proven that no party will hold office or power of privilege forever. It never happens that way. Whether it takes 5, 10 or 15 years  Senator Jessop  will not be able to stop the implementation of what is a fair system for federal parliamentary elections. It is only a matter of time before that argument ceases in this chamber. 
I often wonder what advantage it is to our side of politics to deny the early passage of what is obviously a just system. The Bills to which I refer encompass a wide variety of interests. I cannot for the life of me see how we can say to a city person: 'You shall have a devalued vote in relation to whether there will be a certain type of national health scheme. You will have a smaller vote than a person who lives in a country area'. Both electors must seek the same thing and that is a proper and adequate health service for themselves and their families. Yet they will not have the same say in the national Parliament as to whether they obtain that service. Of course the argument goes much more deeply than simply a matter of whether individual electors can have a proper say on individual items which are discussed in the Parliament. We know that governments are made or broken in the Lower House of any British, Westminster style parliament. It is not simply the individual matters to which members of parliament address themselves which relate to the value of the vote of a person who puts a member in parliament. 
In our sort of government in Australia today it is the party which has the majority of members in the Lower House whose philosophy guides a country for, hopefully, 3 years. It is the philosophy which will be decided. It is in this area that our side of politics has been so hopelessly defective. We have said that people who live in cities, in areas of large aggregation of population, should have a smaller say than those who live in country areas, as to which philosophy shall guide Australia. That is a serious and black mark against our side of politics. As much as I have personally warned our side, it will never take note of the harm it does itself and it will never understand that some members of the public do recognise the fault of a party which denies the general population an equal right in the choice of a philosophy to govern the people. Again, this is revealed by  Senator Carrick,  who I feel deals so heartlessly with the aspects of politics, when he says that the system returns a fair result because whether it is defective in Queensland or whether it is just in New South Wales, the majority chooses the majority of the members of the Lower House. 
Of course the honourable senator forgets the individual value entirely in the assessment he makes. When he says that the general average in Australia is the proper result, whether an electorate in Sydney has twice the number of electors as a country electorate in Queensland, he absolutely denies the individual's right to justice in whether he or she personally has an equal say in one part of Australia when compared with an electorate in another part of Australia. That is a totally heartless argument and it ignores the very basis of the liberal principle. The liberal principle of politics ought to be based on the value of every individual in Australia. I am ashamed of those Liberals who deny the very basis of their supposedly liberal precepts in this chamber. I do not intend to get any more heated because this argument comes up every few months. As I said in the beginning of my speech,  Senator Carrick  certainly is at total variance with the way his party is voting in South Australia. I again request him to contact the Leader of the Opposition, the Leader of the Liberal Party in the Upper House in South Australia, in what I hope will be some effective way to prevent a leading Liberal politician in Australia- despite  Senator Carrick  's speech here today- who has in the last few days publicly said that he is in favour of optional preferential voting for the Lower House in South Australia, from voting against the Bill. 
What hope have we in this divided Party of producing against that sort of background a proper approach to electoral reform? I again state my belief in relation to the Bills we have before us. Several weeks in the future South Australia will be a model which I hope this Parliament may look at. It is taking out of the hands of politicians this matter of a self-interested view of electoral reform and placing it entirely outside the personal ambitions of politicians. I would like to see these Bills drafted along those lines. I think it is as wrong for members of Parliament to fix their own salaries as it is for them to fix their own electorates. It is high time the Parliament rose above its own little ambitions and looked at this matter in the same way it looks at salaries. Any redistribution should be carried out at appointed times free of scrutiny by individual members of Parliament. Until that is done we will have this recurring, unsavoury debate in which members on one side take the low ethics of the other side to justify their own stand. I think  Senator Carrick  was referring to the defects in the Labor Party and using that as a reason for the defects in his own Party. 
I challenge the honourable senator to read his speech. There are plenty of other examples of this practice. It seems to me that the favourite part of debate here is devoted to looking at the faults of others in order to justify one's own faults. It will not work in the electoral situation. I know warnings to our side of politics are always ignored. Results are noticed only about 5 years after they occur. It would be of little use for me to reiterate that warning but I say this: The Liberal Party does itself a great deal of harm by its continued refusal to pass this legislation. That harm will not be evident at the next election. It will be evident at the election thereafter. It is a denial by the Liberal Party of the opportunities that stretch out before it to refuse to accept the right that it has to take a larger share of the national Parliament and possibly to deny the Country Party some of its votes in this House and in the House of Representatives by making more certain that the Country Party's representation in the Lower House is related in percentage terms to the percentage of votes that it gets in the community. In any case whatever view the Liberal Party takes of that it has not justified in this debate its refusal of these Bills. As I have said, time will effect their passage, even though members of Parliament may deny their passage now. I look forward to a measure being introduced in the future that will go much further and that will make redistributions automatic, well regulated and not dependent upon members of Parliament. 
I just want to say a few words about the culmination of this rather tedious competition of search for power in the Australian Parliament. 
-Senator Wright objects to that. I listened with some interest to  Senator Wright.  I hope that he was not offended because I did not vote for the motion to extend his speaking time. In normal times I would have done so, but I did not think that the subject matter of his address really warranted my shifting across the chamber. I agree with  Senator Wright  in that there are some aspects of the petroleum deal which I do not like. Possibly I share some of his criticisms. There is only one factor about the advocacy of  Senator Wright.  I noticed that recently, with a vehemence, he publicly justified his position on rejecting supply by saying that the Australian Labor Party would have done it in previous circumstances. He justified his position by using the Labor Party's standards for that purpose. 
I will produce the evidence of that for  Senator Wright  tomorrow in the Senate.  His  Leader, on his behalf, did the same thing today in the Senate. We find, on the one hand, that  Senator Wright  will use the Labor Party's standards to justify his own breaking of convention and yet, on the other hand, he will use those standards to vilify the Labor Party. That illustrates the paucity of  Senator Wright's  approach to this matter. There are some humorous sides to this event which is taking place. Tonight on one of the television channels I saw an interview with  Mr Anthony  who said with gravity, without actually smiling, that if the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  did not hold an election he would be breaking normal conventions. As I have said, at least there is some humour in the situation when  Mr Anthony  could say that without smiling and admitting the position of which he was speaking. Perhaps in a State which has produced a governor who has become a politician - 
In Queensland.  Mr Anthony's  Party is strongest in Queensland. Today  Her  Majesty's representative aligned himself with one section of the community against another section. This is what the action of  Senator Wright  in this chamber and of his Leader,  Mr Fraser,  has brought Australia to within the first day of this most divisive action which anyone can take in this Parliament. When we need, above all in Australia, a unifying consensus of thought we have a political leader who will snatch power and divide the country irrevocably in so doing. 
-This division is not made in a very pleasant fashion, because every time that  Senator Young  walks across this floor he takes a dead man's vote with him in his pocket. Today this Opposition, which aspires to lead this country with the great principles about which it prates, won a vote in the Senate and was able to have its will to move an amendment to a loan Bill which is the lifeblood of many Australians. The Bill was defeated in that fashion only by the vote of a dead man which the Opposition has, contrary to the convention of this country. The Premier of Queensland would not replace the late  Senator Milliner  by a member from his own Party. The fact that that replacement, in  Senator Field,  is not here does not remove the fact that the absence of that vote to the Party which should have it means that it cannot prevent the Opposition from doing what it did today. This is quite disgraceful. I must say that there is an area of responsibility, no doubt, for all of us. 
-Senator Young is very vocal. I believe he has never wavered in his stance, unlike  Senator Jessop.  I remember that after  Senator Bunton  and I had clearly stated our position which was that we would not support the rejection of Supply,  Senator Jessop  rushed into print in Saturday's  Advertiser,  to say that he too would not reject Supply. Yet, of course, a few hours later he retracted, or a retraction was made on his behalf, whatever the case happens to be. At least, he watered down the earlier statement which he made.  Senator Young  has never been in that position because he represents the small establishment class in Adelaide. That is an area of operation which I know very well, and which I regret has disgraced the name of liberalism in my State in the past. I am ashamed to know that it is now disgracing the name of liberalism on the Federal scene. It is all very fine for  Senator Young  and for his Leader to talk of principles. It was interesting to note that at the Press Conference of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  today he was asked a question which went something like this: 'This is the second time in 2 years that you have rejected money Bills in the Senate to force another election. What would the people of Australia think? Would they think this is another attempt by the coalition for a grab for power?' The Leader of the Opposition replied: 'I suggest that you read this morning's newspapers'. Of course, what this man of principle neglected to tell that conference was that yesterday he rang the newspaper proprietors around Australia and asked them to write what they wrote this morning. 
I may say that there are some men of principle among the Liberal Party whom I admire for the stand that they have taken. I am sorry that they have been so subjugated by the steamroller of the Party that they have been unable to vote according to their conscience. I will not name them individually and so embarrass them. We know that they are there. One day in the future they will show up in a much more important way among Australian Liberals. The point is that they should know that their Leader has talked to them this morning through the nation's Press by ringing the Press proprietors yesterday and asking them to do it in their own names and not in his. That is the way in which this morning's Press was handled. 
It is a remarkable combination of events which brought  Mr Khemlani  to Australia on the very day that he is needed to convert people to a certain view. It is, of course, a remarkable coincidence that the Press reported in this way this morning. As I said earlier, I am surprised that the Liberal Party- a party which should represent a classless society, which should want to set up a classless society and which I had thought cared for every person- should so seriously divide this community. The Opposition action is, of course, tactically wrong. The Leader of the Opposition is taking the worst of all paths to power, one which I can tell him from some experience and observation in South Australia, will lead to his undoing. There is no way that a party can filch power from a populace which can vote every 3 years and which, on some occasions, is forced to vote at more frequent intervals. Whilst there is no doubt that the Leader of the Opposition would win an election now - 
-There is no doubt. I must say that my political position is such that I want to see the Labor Government defeated. I want to see it defeated in the Lower House, but not by breaking convention in this House. The action taken by the Opposition is, of course, tactically wrong as I have said. As one other Australianan important Australian- has said, the decision will come back to haunt the Opposition. The rejection of those Bills is wrong in principle. That cannot be argued. In fact,  Mr Fraser  himself, when he first took office as Leader of the Liberal Party in Australia, said that he believed that a government should serve its full term of office. I suppose we all have some responsibility in this. Every member of the Liberal Party - 
Yes, we have some fine print. Perhaps he sells insurance also. As I have stated, I suppose a lot of people have responsibility in this matter, including every member of the Liberal Party who voted for  Mr Malcolm  Fraser. I must say publicly that from my small platform I urged them to do so. I believe that the previous Leader of the Opposition was reducing the effect of the Liberal cause by threatening an election every fortnight. It was refreshing to have a new Leader of the Opposition who took a stance on principle which was recognised as such by the media and by the people of Australia. Therefore, I find it personally disappointing that in my small area I have been let down in this fashion. It is wrong in principle and it will come to haunt us on our side of politics in the future. For whom do senators here speak today? Who do they speak for? Do they speak for those who are concerned about inflation? Will the quick advent of a Fraser government reduce the rate of inflation in Australia? Is any honourable senator willing to say that? 
Government supporters-  No. 
-AU honourable senators in this place know that there are extemely hard times ahead. In considering the aspects of the budgetary policies of both parties, I certainly favour the Liberal side. But let us be realistic. Any impetus to the business community must involve it in an increase in profits. No honourable senator would say that there is any way to put industry back on its feet other than to raise the profit level of many companies in this community which are suffering greatly today. At the same time, the Opposition says that it will abolish the Prices Justification Tribunal which, rather strangely, has been found an essential tool in moderating wage increases in Australia. Of course, put the two together with the natural reflation which will come with that action and we will have inflation which will top 20 per cent. I put that on the record for Opposition senators to look back at if they are successful in their plans. There is not the slightest doubt that the $ 1,000m which is to be cut off government expenditure by the Opposition parties will dramatically increase unemployment in Australia. There is no doubt about that. Deliberate action by the Opposition will raise the percentage of unemployment in Australia by many points. 
I would not hazard a guess at this stage. I do say that it will be a substantial rise. The warnings are, of course, with us now. In this morning's Adelaide  Advertiser  under the heading: 'Budget hit us, says builder', it is stated: 
There has been a dramatic drop in construction work since the Federal Budget, according to a national contractors' authority. A shortage of work in the industry was evident in the declining number of contracts. 
It went on to predict chaos in that industry. Of course, every builder and every company that may be jubilant about the stock exchanges today and every one of those companies which is relying on government contracts must understand that their work will be dramatically decreased when  Mr Fraser  takes office. For whom do the 
Opposition senators speak? They have not told us. I suspect, of course, that in their impatience they speak for their own lust for power, which is so evident in the public statements which cannot be given as the reasons they have acted in this way. The result of an election is something that none of us can forecast. We understand that certain States will not respond to a call for a half Senate election. They will fracture the Federation which we have developed over 75 years. They will not collaborate with the Australian Government to have a normal half Senate election if it is called. Indeed, it is the normal time to have a half Senate election. The States will not collaborate in establishing what the new Senate should be. 
I believe if that comes about it is of far greater significance and it will have a far greater impact on the factors which underpin our society than the defeat of the Budget itself. Certain States have not yet refused to respond to the call for a half Senate election and we are not faced with that problem at the moment. The full gravity of the matter has not been considered. But the very fact that any Premier or a number of Premiers would take such a course of action would indeed gravely injure Australia. The action of Opposition senators here today has brought about that distinct possibility. On behalf of my own Party I can only say that if the Opposition is successful we look forward to an increase in numbers. I do not find that thought unpleasant. I have no doubt that there are useful things that members of the Liberal Movement can do in this Senate. The conscience of individual Opposition senators in this place has, of course, been subverted by their own Party. The Government is quite justified in having a half Senate election. The Government controls the Lower House. It does not have any problem in passing the Budget through that House but it has trouble getting its Budget through this House. This Government is quite justified in finding out who controls this House and who should control this House. By having a half Senate election, it is seeking that answer. 
I do not want to say much more. I should like to mention some of the reasons that the Opposition has adopted this attitude. We are dealing with 3 Bills- the Loan Bill and the 2 Appropriation Bills. I suppose it is proper for any honourable senator on this side of the House who does not agree with the action taken today to state that he does not agree with this action. It is, indeed, an unprincipled action. As I have said earlier, the Opposition has chosen a sleazy road to office. Its action is totally unprincipled. What is more, it has suppressed those honourable senators on this side of the House who have a conscience. It has caused them to vote against their conscience. That is the antithesis of Liberalism. If one reads the definition of Liberalism in any Liberal handout book in Australia one will find that it gives supreme authority to the individual member of Parliament under the Liberal preselection system. It indicates that he should be responsible solely to his electorate. In this case, there are good and noble members of this Senate who are not responsible to their electorates for this decision but are responsible to the decision taken by the Federal Council of the Liberal Party. It is something which I deplore on our side of politics. I am used to the Labor Party using dictatorial powers within its own structure. It has been a great disappointment to come to the Senate and find that the Liberal Party of Australia is even better at caucasing and demanding the compliance of its members who may have some conscience on these matters. 

 -Obviously, Senator Young is worried about his position. He is worried about his Party in our State. May I say that he has every reason to be worried because at the last State election I think that there was about 7 or 8 per cent difference between us in the vote. Given the rate of increase in votes for our party at each election I expect that  Senator Young's  party will some day be in the minority position in that State. In any case, we are arguing really about how this Government will change. The questions of when and of how have not yet been settled. We are dealing with the general area of how it will change. I can say only that the Liberal Party has greatly diminished its future by its action today. I urge the Liberals of good will in Australia to look to the future beyond this action and to try to develop a more attractive and more fundamental liberalism than represents them here today. 
I ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration: In view of the announcements heralding the formation of the official government of Great Eastland which it is claimed is no longer part of Australia, can the Minister take up with his Government the possibility of appointing  Mr Fraser,  the present Leader of the Opposition, as Australian ambassador to this proposed new nation as a consolation prize or a place of exile if his present attempted coup in the Senate is unsuccessful? 
I want to speak for only a few minutes because I had something to say yesterday about the general principle of what the Opposition is doing. I do not want really to clash with  Senator Greenwood  in his claim for virtue and honesty which he made in this House. All I can say is that I left half way through because that was all I could take of the claim. But I must say that it is evident to most members of Parliament that the public reaction is antagonistic to the Opposition in an overwhelming manner and the public reaction in all forms of the media around Australia means that the Opposition is committing political suicide on this course. That is said easily, but it is not the main thing that I want to say at the end of the week. The public knows that the Opposition will create extreme hardship in the community, and the Opposition cannot turn around the meaning of its action and blame the Government. It is clear to the public that the Opposition has taken this action and it is responsible for the consequences. Extreme hardship is confronting Australians, who already are ringing their bank managers to see if they have enough savings to tide them through the festive season. I raise this point: This is the first Party that has ever tried to cancel Christmas.  Mr Fraser  will be the first political leader in Australia to go down as the leader who tried to cancel Christmas. 
I predict that, because of overwhelming public reaction within 24 hours of the Opposition's move, the Opposition will give in. I noticed this morning that the media had started already on this, despite some of the favourable or semifavourable editorials. There was a significant argument in the Melbourne  Age  this morning which said that if the Opposition gets half the Senate it should respond by passing Supply and I know what the reaction is going to be. I forecast that within 3 weeks this Budget will be passed completely in the Senate because public pressure will be overwhelming in one week's time. I appeal to the Opposition. It has not taken this position from any stance of principle. In fact,  Senator Greenwood  took some time to say that there was no principle involved.  His  words on this issue will be clear in  Hansard.  The Opposition has taken a pragmatic move for the sake, as  Senator Wheeldon  has said, of grabbing the fruits of office. Having done that, surely therefore the Opposition will be subject to the pragmatic reaction of the public. The Opposition is not standing on principle; it is standing simply on the numbers, and the numbers are not with them. I forecast that within 3 weeks the Opposition will reverse its decision. 
But I say this: The Opposition will make it easier for itself, it will defuse the issue and remove a tremendous amount of the disquiet that has entered thousands of Australian homes, if it acts quickly. I know that it is too much to expect a reversal of this vote today, but I expect that the matter will come up in the Senate next week and I hope that by then common sense will pervade the Opposition and that it will pass what it will pass inevitably in any case. In making this appeal I say that it would be good for all Australians to approach the Opposition with a single minded slogan: 'Don't cancel Christmas'. 

 Senator GREENWOOD ( Victoria)-Mr  President,  I claim to have been misrepresented and 1 claim the right to be heard. I wish  Senator Steele  Hall would tell the truth. I did not say that no issue of principle was involved. I said- and I want it corrected in the record simply so that it cannot be used on the basis that  Senator Steele  Hall's remark went unchallenged- that the issue was a decision between 2 principles, the principle of continuity in government, which is a sound principle, and the other principle that where you have the power then you have got to think of the country and what is in the country's interests. That is the difficult conflict which the Opposition had to decide, and it is quite wrong to say that I said that no principle was involved. That is a misrepresentation. 
Question put- 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Cotton's  amendment) be left out. 
The re-presentation of these Bills allows us to assess now some of the results of the events that have occurred in the community following the delaying and obstructionist tactics of the Opposition last week. It is quite evident to everyone, including members of the Opposition, that it has been a tragic week for the Opposition. We hope now that it will not be a tragic week for Parliament and for the Senate because the action which has been taken has raised many questions and thoughts about the very basis of this House and the powers which it now possesses. What we have seen, in a tactical sense, is the situation where a Leader of the Opposition and his Party have the Government completely at their mercy, a government which had suffered many reversals in the public and in the Parliament and stood clearly outlined with its policies so that the public could see and reject them. The gallup polls around Australia showed clearly that the Opposition had an overwhelming superiority of public support. Therefore the Opposition stood poised to take office automatically in 18 months time, with its guns firmly trained on the Government. In one action in the Senate it has turned those guns from being accurately trained on the Government to being trained on itself. 
Today it is the Opposition which is the target, not the Government. I can think of no worse piece of generalship in history or in current political events than that. It is a tragic change for the Opposition within five or six days. It illustrates the harm that can come to any organisation, particularly a political party, if it organises its affairs and plans its strategy by reading the gallup polls. 
The public opinion polls of Australia are organisations for assembling public opinion and I have a great deal of admiration for them. I do not believe their results are wrong at the time they take their surveys, given a margin of error, and with cross-checking that can be done through various polls at various locations in Australia. I believe they give essentially a correct and proper report of public opinion. However, they report public opinion as it exists at the time of the poll, quite free of any pressures which may later be exerted on those who give their opinions to these pollsters. Of course, the Opposition would find a quite different public opinion this week from that which was found last week. Someone soon will publish another poll because I am sure that the pollsters are interested in the obvious change of public opinion. We no doubt will find in a few days a different assessment. What will the Opposition do then? Will it again read the poll and dart off on some other tangent on the periphery of this political controversy? It is a very great warning for all parties hereafter never to decide upon their actions entirely by reading public opinion polls at the time. 
I listened to  Senator Scott  with some interest and I was disappointed. I think he merely pointed up the tragic position in which the Opposition now finds itself. It is in a corner from which it can find no outlet. It has painted itself into a corner and there is no way out with honour. I have a great deal of feeling for people in that position. It is the worst of all political situations. However,  Senator Scott  justified his stand by saying that upsetting events had occurred. For instance, tariffs had been altered, the superphosphate bounty had been removed and there had been a change in foreign investment policy, even though nearly all impartial observers today agree that there is hardly any difference between the foreign investment policy of the Opposition and that of the Government. Despite that small difference he used it as a reason and said that there are reversals of opinion. I remember last year or early this year in this chamber the Opposition rejecting a charge for Medibank, yet the Opposition spokesman for health last week or early this week said that the Opposition would bring one in. There have been devaluations and revaluations but most financial observers, with hindsight, now would say that they were fairly accurate. 
I do not criticise the points which  Senator Scott  used. I agree with him on some of those issues. But all I say to him is that on average they represent the good and the bad of an administration that is different philosophically from this side of the chamber. If we are to list all these items and say that in total they represent sufficiently grave reasons, for this House to tell the lower House to go out and have an election, I simply do not understand the reason. This is why the Australian public also does not understand that reason. 
-No, I do not think the events have changed since  Senator Jessop  wrote to the  Advertiser  some weeks ago. I do not for a minute think that they have changed since then. As a matter of fact, there was a quotation used by a Minister in the lower House today that I thought was a good one. Everyone is using everyone else's quotations. The Minister speaking in support of the Bills being put through the lower House for the third time said: 
If the Parliament becomes unworkable by destruction of convention, democracy itself becomes unworkable because democracy rests much more on adherence to convention than to the rigid application of rules and laws. 
There are many challenges to the preservation of Parliament. There are forces within our community, some of great power, that do not believe in Parliamentary government. There are economic and social problems which the Parliament has not yet been able to solve. 
These problems alone would be daunting for present legislators and Ministers. If we add to that list the problems created by the behaviour of Parliament itself, the destruction of convention, the defiance of reason, the pursuit of power without concern for the rights or privileges of minorities, then Australians will have little faith in the future of Australian democracy. 
Would anyone here disagree with that? I assume they would not because the Minister was quoting from an election talk given by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcom Fraser)  on 2 March 1975, in which he clearly set out the rules and the basis for the operation of Parliament and stressed the supremacy that needs to be exerted by Parliament and the stability that we need to obtain from it. We know that public reaction has been adverse to the Opposition's course and there are many ways of cross-checking that with the tenor of communications which all members, including members of the Liberal Party who do not agree with the move, have been receiving on this issue. I have received many, as have many others in the community. If we cross-check them with what has been flowing into the newspapers and radio stations we can certainly get the clear idea that the Australian public does not generally agree with the Opposition. 
It is quite clear that the Australian Labor Party has been galvanised and unified by  Mr Fraser's  action. This is undeniable and anyone walking these corridors and seeing the attendance at 
Labor rallies organised at a few days notice will see that for himself. The Opposition is divided on this issue and there is no point in saying otherwise. Members of those Parties are writing and telegramming members of Parliament signing themselves as members of the Liberal Party. We know of the telegrams coming into this House and of their significance. We have the unpleasant prospect- I say no more than that- of the Leader of the Opposition proposing to know the intentions of the Governor-General. I find that distasteful. But never mind that. I have stated the issues, very briefly, as they stand with the parties. 
The Australian public is alarmed. There are very alarming signs that the community is being polarised at the extremes. I know that those who want government at any price appear close to a dictatorship type of organisation and that is very disturbing. I had a person of very good repute approach me in King's Hall yesterday and say: 'I was disappointed earlier this week travelling on a plane on which I recognised clearly a notable supporter of the Liberal Party'. He was not a member of Parliament. He said: 'His companion said to him: "If this continues there will be violence in the streets", and the notable reporter replied: "A bit of bloodshed would help the Opposition at this time".' This is the sort of extreme which is permeating the community and frightening it and it shows the good sense of Australians that they are reacting not with violence at this time but properly, through the very proper means of showing their opinion through the media and through approaching peaceably members of Parliament. All we need now is for members of Parliament to take note of what has been one of the most responsible reactions of any community in the history of Australia. The prospects for Australians obviously are not good in the immediate sense. 
We in politics have always been brought up on the theme that the greatest nerve in politics is the hip pocket nerve. The most sensitive nerve, it has been said to every new member of Parliament on any side of politics, is the hip pocket nerve. If there has ever been a built-in factor in this controversy to keep it right on the rails, to prevent the central argument from ever being forgotten, it is the hip pocket nerve which will become more acutely agitated as each day passes. On the notice board at one of the Government services in Adelaide, which covers quite a large area of government operations, by direction of management a notice has been placed. It says to the staff that they have 3 more pays coming from this organisation and then the money is finished. What is stirring the community is the prospect that they will go without what is necessary for them to continue their normal expected standard of living. There is a very great fear in the community of the unknown if the Opposition continues this course. 
It is evident that the Opposition would like to turn the public's gaze away from this issue and from those who cause it. The inbuilt matter of financial stringency will not allow the Opposition to do so. It is most unfortunate for the Opposition, but it is a fact of life. I was proud of the editorial which the Adelaide  Advertiser  printed on Monday of this week. I read the final paragraph of the leader, which stated: 
It is not open to  Mr Fraser  to complain that  Mr Whitlam  is defying convention by not going direct to the people because the Budget has been blocked. It is  Mr Fraser  who first threw away the rule book and made this a boots and all fight. He and his supine followers who, incidentally, have finally shed any lingering pretence that they are somehow less subject to party discipline than their Labor counterparts, cannot now complain if they get hurt. They might ponder also that a normal general  election would have been due in December had they not unwisely sought a premature return to power last year. 
-The leader of the  Advertiser  of 20 October, which was last Monday. That paper is generally presumed to be fairly careful. In past years it has often been said to be conservative. I believe that is an entirely responsible statement and one which is indicative of the point that I made before I read it. The issue cannot be turned away from its source. No one in the community will start an argument if we are to approach an election under crisis circumstances. No one in the community will be able to develop a theme that the Senate did not do it and that the Opposition did not do it. No one can do that because people will want to know why they do not have any money. There is a simple answer. The crossing of the floor in this chamber will ensure the provision of money. It is people who are responsible. They are named. People are contacting them. People are writing to them. They know who these senators are. They are targeted. 
I have always been disturbed that our side of politics would never listen to a reasoned argument. It chooses always, it seems, to reject warnings against any move which its great machine makes. It is impressed by the possession of money and of great numbers of staff. Any individual or smaller group that warns against the direction which it takes is to be automatically rejected. This I have found in the long history of our side of politics. Therefore I will not venture into a 'I told you so' position about the letter I wrote to  Mr Fraser.  I suspect he was warned. I cannot imagine this matter being resolved without the subject being discussed fully in the Party room. He surely must have had Party room warnings. He certainly had public warnings. He chose to ignore them. 
Having reached this position, we know the matter must be resolved. Despite what some of my most virulent critics on this side of the House would say, the position is one of the most terrifying corners politically which the Opposition could ever get into. People who have resented my position in support of a levy for Medibank, which they then opposed, now want that sort of provision. Those critics of that action do not criticise me now. The Opposition must get out of this position. It can get out of it in 2 ways- by giving in or ultimately by bringing this country to its knees and forcing an election on the issue. 
I am not in the business of politics, however much I may be vilified by some people on my side of it, to put the Labor Party in office. My objective is to keep it out of office and to make certain that it is defeated in the lower House. Others who do not see it that way would like to adopt a siege mentality. When they cannot win the lower House they would like to take siege in the upper House, to throw away public opinion, to stand against it, to put up a wall and to prevent from that fortress the other side governing. It does not work. It will never work in future. The Opposition is creating the conditions which are favourable to the Government. If the Opposition continues on this course which will bring this country to its knees economically, it could well produce in this community at some stage in the not too distant future conditions under which there will be an election which the Government will win. How will the Opposition have served its backers who have emptied their cheque books into the coffers of the Liberal Party? How will its backers be served if the Australian public says: We want a fair political test to see who will govern in Canberra. We will not support you in a fortress in the Senate'? Then we will see even further division in the Liberal Party. There ought to be enough brains and enough level headed thinkers in the Opposition who can see where it is heading at a quite revolutionary pace. 
I do not think anybody gave one iota of credence last Monday to the thought that the Labor Party could win any election in the next 3 years. No one in Kings Hall today will take bets on it. That is the pace of the political activity in this country- in Canberra and right across Australia today. The Opposition must face the fact that by bad generalmanship it has got itself into a corner. It must get out of that corner. I do not pretend to be able to tell it how to do so, because it would not take any notice. Past form has been to ignore all advice. The Opposition can no longer afford that luxury. It had better get its advice from somewhere because it must change its mind. I warn again that unless it takes the appropriate action it will do what its supporters and I do not want it to do- it will help the Government back into office for another term. 

 - Mr President, I seek leave to make a personal explanation concerning something about which I have been misrepresented. 
-After I had spoken this afternoon  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack read a passage which inferred that I had said that the Budget should be defeated and that I had since changed my mind. By way of interjection  Senator Withers  said: 'He has seen the gallup poll'. The general inference of that was that I had changed my mind in the 24 hours since the publication of a gallup poll which showed an upsurge in Labor support. The facts of the matter in relation to any public stance on this are that what was said in the heat of the debate here on the loans affair was completely superseded by a public statement in which I was joined by  Senator Bunton  in this chamber on 1 1 September- many weeks before the Budget was presented- when it was made quite clear by the two of us that we would not support the defeat or deferral of the Budget. It was subsequently confirmed in a letter of warning I wrote to  Mr Malcolm  Fraser on, I think, the first of this month or early in this month. Therefore the situation is quite clear. There has been no recent change of view. There was a clear public statement weeks before the Budget was presented. This matter is not subject to the wilful misconstructions that  Senator Withers  usually puts on these matters if he can get away with it. 
There is only one main issue in this debate and controversy and that is whether the Budget ought to be used as commodity of ransom to force the public to accept an election and the Government to agree to it. Whilst  Senator Young  is unable to see the simplicity of the argument he has been a far greater help than he knows. He has adopted the standards of the Australian Labor Party for his own and consistently throughout this debate, this continuing saga week by week, the Opposition has justified its action by looking at the Labor Party and saying: 'You did this or recommended that at a certain time'. To begin with we can assume that the Liberal Party is acting on Labor Party standards by its own choice and that, I believe, does not elevate the Liberal Party in this chamber. Nevertheless,  Senator Young  made some interesting comments. He said that he recalled 1974. I wonder whether he does recall 1974 because time after time Opposition speakers then said: 'We want to test the Government. We want the people to choose'. Surely he can remember that an election was held in that environment. Now 18 months later the same request is made again: 'Let the people choose'. 
I wonder whether  Senator Young  or anyone else in his Party would give an undertaking that if the Opposition were to have this election and lost, it would not yet again in 18 months' time call for the same action. Would the Opposition give an undertaking if it got its desire this time that it would not in 18 months time say: 'Let the people choose again'. This is becoming repetitive. The Opposition is not prepared to accept the umpire's decision then, a decision which they called for and got in clear terms. The country cannot afford this stay of proceedings week by week while the Opposition takes time off to sift through every scandal in which it can become involved. The country cannot afford that luxury.  Senator Young  was quick to point out that the cost of the Government's propaganda machine was $lm a month. I believe that is far too much. But what does  Senator Young  think his action and his vote in this chamber will have cost the Australian community by Christmas. Will it be as little as $ 1 m a month? By Christmas he conceivably will be costing the Australian community $ 100m a month. That is the charge which  Senator Young  will put on this community to obtain what he wants. 
If  Senator Jessop  reads the statements that the leaders of his Party have made, including those that are contained in the transcripts of broadcasts, he will find that 2 words run continually through those statements. They are: 'We want'. 
If  Senator Jessop  likes to go on a bit I can enlarge upon his part in this matter. I have been very kind to  Senator Jessop  so far. 
-Let me say that  Senator Jessop  has a bit to answer for in the community. Just for the comfort or otherwise of  Senator Jessop  and  Senator Young  I point out that  Senator Bunton,  who spoke only a few minutes ago, has already received 2 telegrams from Adelaide congratulating him on his speech in this House this afternoon. That is what the public of Australia thinks. 
I do not know who sent them. I suspect that they are not members of the Liberal Movement. The words that are being used consistently by leading spokesmen for the Opposition are 'we want'. That means the Liberal Party of Australia wants and not the people of Australia. The Liberal Party wants an election not for the greater good of this country but so that it can get into office and its leading spokesmen can be Ministers. That is the attitude which has been consistently adopted and which I deplore. 
As I have said, those are the smaller issues that  Senator Young  went into at great length. But they are not the issues now. The issue now is simply whether a lower House is the place where a government is formed in Australia from here on in. That is the real issue. I am, as I have said previously, extremely disturbed that our side of politics, which was showing a complete supremacy over its Labor adversaries, has suddenly surrendered the torch of principle to those adversaries and has given them the principle to uphold whilst our side tries to drag it down. That is what I regret so much about the political dogfight. The issue at stake is whether a government is formed in the lower House. I should have thought that the issue was settled long ago. 
There is perhaps one issue which does stand out among the detail in this argument and that is the loans affair. There is no doubt that the Opposition has made it the central issue, the central factor, of its charge against the Government. It has lived for some months now in times of great controversy whilst this matter has been sifted through and 2 Ministers have lost their jobs. I believe it reflects great discredit on the Government that it should have been involved with the backyard financiers of that unknown and unguaranteed or, should I say, unvouched for world in London and other capital cities. The Government , of course, has incurred its own penalty for getting involved with those people. The victims of that are the Australian people in the form of the challenge which has now been put up on this matter by the Opposition. 
What is the Government's position now in this issue? As I have said, 2 Ministers have gone. The Opposition has adopted those very people that first took the Government in these negotiations.  Mr Khemlani  is now the possession of the Opposition- of the Liberal Party. I suppose that he is today closeted somewhere eating potato crisps and having his 8 bulging briefcases examined by senior assistants to Liberal Party shadow Ministers. He is the possession of the Liberal Party. I cannot for the life of me see why the LiberalParty has not proceeded to support his presence in the Senate, as I understood  Senator Withers  said last week he would do. It seems to me to be very much a matter of very shallow politics indeed that his presence here to settle this issue depends on whether his bulging briefcases favour the Liberal Party. That appears to be the extent of the Liberal Party's interest in this issue. 
Today  Senator Withers  has given notice that he intends to move for the setting up of a select committee of 3 members from each political side. I notice that he has very prominently ignored the two of us who do not belong to either of the two major political sides in this House.  Senator Withers  has suggested that it may be time to have this question examined before a restricted but proper number of the House of Representatives. In some circumstances I could agree with that examination, but it is a position which has been totally confused now with, as I have said, the Opposition being in possession of the chief negotiator who was previously dealing with the Government. The issue is now resting on innuendo and on documents whose validity is unknown and unvouched for. We have had the leading protagonists in the argument using the word 'purported'. I notice that in the House of Representatives on 22 October,  Mr Lynch  said: 
I have here more documents. They are not the only documents the Opposition has in relation to the loans affair, but as I recall it the Prime Minister is on record as saying that all the relevant documents have been published in the House. Why is it then that I hold before me what purports - 
I emphasise the word 'purports'-  to be a telex from the former Minister for Minerals and Energy dated 7 February . . . 

 Mr Lynch went on in that statement about a document that 'purports' to be a telex to say: 
But, of course, the story has been one of continuing deceit, deception and mounting evasion. 
I have also noticed that in this week's  Bulletin  under the heading 'More dirty washing'  Mr Peter  Samuel has said: 
In an undated unsigned telex apparently sent some time in the middle of February from the Department of Minerals and Energy telex machine, there is reference to the first instalment of loan funds of $500m . . . 
He ends that statement by saying: 
That seems a suggestion that private funds from the Saudi royal family, which also dominates the Saudi government, might have been involved. 
I emphasise the words 'might have been involved', 'purports to be', 'unsigned' and 'undated'. That is apparently where much of the Opposition's criticism rests. 
If I may say so, I am also in possession of some documents which interest me. I have in front of me a blank International Message Form with the words 'Australian Diplomatic Network' written on it. I have in my possession a number of documents which purport to be telexes. I have not actually counted them yet. I will count them now. There are 7 purported telex messages on the International Message Form of the 'Australian Diplomatic Network' and one on a normal tear-off sheet, They all contain mysterious and, I suppose, interesting references. When I received them I enlisted the assistance of the Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Senator Willesee,  and asked him to check whether they were valid telex copies. I have a letter with which he was good enough to furnish me today, which reads: 
You referred to me yesterday a number of telegrams regarding the loans affair, which I referred to my Department for authentication. The Secretary of the Department has advised me about them in the following terms: 
None of the attached telegrams were dispatched through this Department and the Department knows nothing about them. 
It is true that with one exception the Department's form has been used. However, the person employing the form is revealed to have no knowledge whatsoever about how to use the various boxes at the top of the form. The way in which they have been used amounts, in fact, to gibberish. Furthermore, all Departments and all Ministers' offices have supplies of the Department 's form '. 
I hope this information may be of use to you. 
-They are bogus telex messages. It is interesting, however, that one of them was published on the front page of the  Herald  on Wednesday, 9 July. 
-The Melbourne  Herald.  This is the form that was published - 
-Let us say that the  Herald  itself has said that it thought that this one was bogus. The  Herald  article of 9 July reads: 
There were fears in Canberra today that the premature leaking of the message on an 'international message form' could have upset the final loan negotiations. 
At first- after a check with Department of Foreign Affairs officials- it was thought that the message was a fake. 
And today it appears that at least the top half of the form listing the subject as 'loans' and security classification as  EOrestrict  is not genuine. 
But experienced communications men in Canberra believed that the message at the foot of the form could be a cryptic- yet genuine- Treasury message leaked deliberately to the Press. 
What are we dealing with? Are all these obviously spurious telex copies leaks from the Treasury? Was this the way leaks were conveyed from the Treasury? I do not know. I have these copies with me. Later I will ask for leave to table them so that anyone can look at them. I find it an absurd situation that people in the diplomatic network can take the time and trouble to write such things on official telex copies. The one which appeared in the  Herald  is available for members. I will not read it. I will read another one, which I select at random. It reads:   . .  Whel  concerned security has been leak from inside to Melbourne paper L warns  agst  comm. with H and N suggest only telephone minus one both ends ex now. PM office contact maybe known also. W and C out. Must send copy second letter extra air bag . . .  JM  unsure sunset her staff any longer . . . 
What sort of messages are they? Did someone simply sit in an office, get from one of the offices around the Parliament or wherever else these message copies are kept, blank forms, and fiddle up these sorts of cryptic messages as a hoax in a bogus situation? I do not know. They might have. 

 -As Mr Lynch has said in the House of Representatives, I have them. I will use his terminology, for  Senator Wood  's information. I find them most peculiar. Whilst one might throw them in the wastepaper basket the first time one saw them, when one finds that a copy has already been printed on the front page of the  Herald  one does not throw them away but introduces them into the argument as an illustration of the sort of standard which is being adopted in this debate. A couple of other matters have also come into my hands. I find these to be incredible, quite frankly. 
-Incredible. I have a copy of a letter on what purports to be the letterhead of the Union Bank of Switzerland. Later I will table it, with the Senate's permission. I do not believe it is a genuine letter. I say that. Certainly the people who are mentioned in it can make their own assessment of whether it is a genuine letter. It should not take long to find that out. Are people either counterfeiting or stealing the business letterheads of prominent firms, making up bogus letters and sending them around the highways and byways of our capital cities or back around London? Is this what is in the bulging briefcases? Is this the standard? Is this the standard on which the Opposition is basing its argument? I will read out this letter. 
It is on a letterhead purportedly of the Union Bank of Switzerland. Perhaps the bank officials will have something to say about it. They would know whether it is a genuine letter. 
I think you are right. I will come to this in a minute. I am tending to agree with  Senator Chaney.  I will deal with that matter directly. I am pleased that I have an ally there. This letter is addressed to  Mr Andrew  Hay, Office of the  Deputy  Leader of HM Opposition, Parliament House, Canberra. Quite frankly, I think it is a hoax. It is not my hoax. Who hoaxed it? It reads: 
Dear  Mr Hay, 

 Sir Frederick has acquainted us of the conversations held between himself and  Mr Lynch  at which you were present and may I say how pleasant it is to know we are all of one accord. 
We will render as much help as possible during your overseas stay and the facilities of this office and our European offices remain, as always, at your disposal. 
We are pleased to have been of service to  Mr Lynch  and  Sir Frederick  in the matter at hand and the information enclosed is from the same impeccable source which has served all of us so well. 
The complete  Kemlhani  dossier and the file of correspondence between our Head Office and  Mr  Gilham  make up the bulk of the enclosed. There is also a note written by  Sir William  to M. Lannier  a courtesy of this note was sent to  Sir John  Bunting this week. 
We understand from  Mr Harris  that he has had satisfactory briefings with both State and Federal officials and a meeting is to be set up shortly. 
Desirous as we all are of maintaining the utmost discretion in this matter, we will be pleased to hear of your next intended move as regards the newspapers as soon as is convenient after your receipt of this letter. 
The signature is torn off, if there was one. One would tend to throw away these things if the package had not contained a telex that had been reproduced in a newspaper. I have another letter which intrigues me even further, but I do not think I will bother to read it. Later I will ask for leave to table it so that senators can study it for themselves. It is an unsigned letter, as the torn off portion shows. It is addressed to George, not Dear George. It has 'Tuesday' on it. It is undated. It is on., of all things, paper headed ' Minister for State Development and Decentralisation' for the Victorian Government. 
This argument is becoming a comic opera. A man leaves a trail of potato crisps all the way from London, through the Middle East to Sydney. He has eight bulging briefcases. He is closeted for hours with chief advisers of the Opposition, one of whom then makes a statement which embarrasses his Leader and exonerates the Prime Minister. Last week the Opposition said that it would facilitate  Mr Khemlani's  appearance before the Senate. Now apparently the Opposition does not want to facilitate his appearance. Today it moved a motion for the setting up a select committee which may or may not proceed, as  Senator Withers  said. This matter has become a comic opera, but the people of Australia are held to ransom because of it. They are held to ransom because the Opposition has adopted the theme 'We want'. 

 -Perhaps Mr Karidis would like to say something further. He might like to make further and wider statements. Certainly there must be a whole host of items which are unknown yet. There must be more documents, some bogus, some genuine. I cannot say whether those letters from which I quoted are bogus. I do not know. All I know is that the telexes are bogus. 
Having reached this stage, it is obvious that we must do what  Senator Chaney  said. We must set up some sort of inquiry into this matter and let the Budget pass. This should be the strategy of the Opposition today. There is no way we can ascertain the facts of this matter in the next week, the next fort night or the next month. No sensible senator who knows how committees work and how long investigations take and who looks back and sees how long this investigation of the loans affair has taken so far could legitimately and properly say that one could obtain the facts of this case in time to use them as a matter of ransom on this Budget. There is no way it could be done. The only proper course for the Opposition to take in this matter is to set up a committee of inquiry which will finally elicit all the facts on how both sides of politics have behaved about the loans affair so we can know the facts without there being the pressure of this community being held to ransom on the economic front. In the meantime there is only one thing the Opposition can do, and that is to pass the Budget and get on with the economic reconstruction of Australia. I ask for leave to table the documents from which I have read and an additional one which I have not read and which is on the letterhead of the Minister for State Development and Decentralisation. 
-Thank you,  Mr President. 
Very well. I ask for leave to have them incorporated in  Hansard. 
UNION BANK OF SWITZERLAND 
Schweizerische Bankgesellschaft 
Union de Banques Suisses 
Unione di Banche Svizzere 
Charles J. Berg, Representative 
Gerard-A. Woog, Deputy Representative 
Representative Office: 325 Collins Street (9th Floor) 
MELBOURNE, Victoria 3000 
Telephone: 62 462 1 
Cables: UBSWISS, Melbourne 
Telex: 31625 
June 3, 1975. 

 Mr Andrew Hay, 
Office of the Deputy Leader of H.M. Opposition, 
Parliament House, 
CANBERRA. 
A.C.T. 2060. 
Dear  Mr Hay, 

 Sir Frederick has acquainted us of the conversations held between himself and  Mr Lynch  at which you were present and may I say how pleasant it is to know we are all of one accord. 
Wewillrenderasmuchhelpaspossibleduring your overseas stay and the facilities of this office and our European offices remain, as always, at your disposal. 
We are pleased to have been of service to  Mr Lynch  and  Sir Fredenck  in the matter at hand and the information enclosed is from the same impeccable source which has served all of us so well. 
The complete Semihard dossier and the file of correspondence between our Head Office and  Mr Gilham  make up the bulk of the enclosed. There is also a note written by  Sir William  to M. Lannier; a courtesy of this note was sent to  Sir John  Bunting this week. 
We understand from  Mr Harris  that he has had satisfactory briefings with both State and Federal officials and a meeting is to be set up shortly. 
Desirous as we all are of maintaining the utmost discretion in this matter, we will be pleased to hear of your next intended move as regards the newspapers as soon as is convenient after your receipt of this letter. 
I remain, upon behalf of my bank, 
Yours sincerely, 
Victoria 
MINISTER FOR STATE DEVELOPMENT AND DECENTRALISATION 
232 Victoria Parade 
East Melbourne, Vic. 3002 
Telephone: 419 1355 
Tuesday. 
George, 
I know for a fact that Croxford's boys would be very interested indeed. As I understand it, having spoken yesterday to Phil Lynch and young Hay, the arrangement could be taken up for six months in advance. 
I 'm not completely sure of a couple of people here so will check the Cairns' contact myself. It's easier than drinking one of your cocktails, George! 
I 'm all for the meeting with Gerry and Thompson. I suggest that as both you and I aren't too sure of our surrounding people, you should tell the Treasury chaps to meet us in the banks office. I realise you'll have to put that one over to Charles. Look forward to hearing from you on that. 
The information we had from Phil was tremendous. It's surely more than is needed? 
I congratulate you all on a fantastic job well done for the party, the people and the nation. Christ, they were really going to muck us up. 
Simon goes to London on Friday week. He '11 go straight to Australia House and the papers can be sent to the A-G when they're in his hands. 
Encl. are the papers from Cambridge Credit. There's absolutely . . . left at Marland House so you know what to do with these. 
I repeat, the whole thing's bloody marvellous . . . like battery chicken. But their London men must be . . . 
Phone me on the venue, George. 
One more thing, . . . 
Department of Foreign Affairs 
Form No. C02 
International Message Form 
Australian Diplomatic Network 
RED SECTIONS OF FORM MUST BE COMPLETED BY THE ORIGINATOR. 
In precedence columns insert BB for BAG DESPATCH or RR for ROUTINE. PP for PRIORITY, II for IMMEDIATE or EE for EMERGENCY telegraphic transmission. BLUE sections are for use by communications personnel only. 

<graphic href="066232197510290_47_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="066232197510290_48_0.jpg"></graphic>

Department of Foreign Affair 
Form No. C02 
International Message Form 
Australian Diplomatic Network 
Copy'1' 
RED SECTIONS OF FORM MUST BE COMPLETED BY THE ORIGINATOR. 
In precedence columns insert BB for BAG DESPATCH or RR for ROUTINE. PP for PRIORITY, II for IMMEDIATE or EE for EMERGENCY telegraphic transmission. BLUE sections are for use by communications personnel only. 

<graphic href="066232197510290_48_1.jpg"></graphic>

Security classification EE 
Subject heading 
WHEL CONCERNED SECURITY HAS BEEN LEAK FROM INSIDE TO MELBOURNE PAPER L WARNS AGSTCOMM. WITH HAND N SUGGEST ONLY TELEPHONE MINUS ONE BOTH ENDS EX. NOW. PM OFFICE CONTACT MAYBE KNOWN ALSO. 
W AND C OUT LD MUST SEND COPY SECOND LETTER EXTRA AIR BAG. ONPASS MESSAGE. 
JM UNSURE SUNSET HER STAFF ANY LONGER. C MAY NOW REACT. 
ONPASS. 
MORE TO COME EX P AND S. 
END . . . 
Department of Foreign Affairs 
Form No. C02 
International Message Form 
Australian Diplomatic Network 
"1" 
RED SECTIONS OF FORM MUST BE COMPLETED BY THE ORIGINATOR. 
In precedence columns insert BB for BAG DESPATCH or RR for ROUTINE. PP for PRIORITY, II for IMMEDIATE or EE for EMERGENCY telegraphic transmission. BLUE sections are for use by communications personnel only. 

<graphic href="066232197510290_48_2.jpg"></graphic>

Security classification EO: II 
Subject heading 
LD TO SUPPLY LETTER AS DRAFT PER AIR BAG AND ONPASS TO WHEL END MONTH. VISIT OF H TO PLUS ONE TO BE DELETED ante MG. COMM FIG TO BE SPECIFIC H ASSURES WILL RETURN A BEFORE TRESURER LEAVES (DR EX NOW). 
MR G TO PARIS AND CONTACT DR TO BE FOREARRANGED PRIOR P LEAVING AUSTRALIA. TO DATE NO REF AVAILABLE FOR L RE ME TALKS WITH K. IN MEANTIME WE CANNOT INFORM RE T OR OTHERS SYDNEY AND SUGGEST YOU SEND COPIES TOL AND WHEL. 
Department of Foreign Affairs 
Form No. C02 
International Message Form 
Australian Diplomatic Network 
Copy "2" 
RED SECTIONS OF FORM MUST BE COMPLETED BY THE ORIGINATOR. 
In precedence columns insert BB for BAG DESPATCH or RR for ROUTINE. PP for PRIORITY, II for IMMEDIATE or EE for EMERGENCY telegraphic transmission. BLUE sections are for use by communications personnel only. 

<graphic href="066232197510290_49_0.jpg"></graphic>

Security classification EO/RESTRICT 
Subject heading LOANS 
RE YOURS 11.00 GMT ADVICE THAT SAID NEWSPAPER FINANCIAL EDITOR TO LONDON END WEEK. INFORMATION MR G, PARIS AND OTHERS TO BE FED AS SPECIFIED PER TELEPHONE. U.S. TO SYNCHRONISE HOME MEDIA POSTS. THIS MESSAGE BY OUR KEY ONLY TO BE SUNSET YOUR END. WHEL. AGREES YOUR SUGGESTION POST RELEASE COMMUNICATION W AND C VIA SYDNEY. 
Department  of  Foreign Affairs 
Form No. C02 
International Message Form 
Australian Diplomatic Network 
RED SECTIONS OF FORM MUST BE COMPLETED BY THE ORIGINATOR. 
In precedence columns insert BB for BAG DESPATCH or RR for ROUTINE. PP for PRIORITY, II for IMMEDIATE or EE for EMERGENCY telegraphic transmission. BLUE sections are for use by communications personnel only. 

<graphic href="066232197510290_49_1.jpg"></graphic>

Security classification 
Subject heading 
ONPASS LONDON LIB REP. INFORM LYNCH ARRIVE JULY 10 PASS TO HIM INFORMATION REQUIRED. TKS FOR INFO ONPASS ON SMITH. WILL USE TO EXPOSE WHEN PARLIAMENT RESUMES NEXT. HEAR FROM YOU SOONEST. 
Department of Foreign Affairs 
Form No. C02 
International Message Form 
Australian Diplomatic Network 
RED SECTIONS OF FORM MUST BE COMPLETED BY THE ORIGINATOR. 
In precedence columns insert BB for BAG DESPATCH or RR for ROUTINE. PP for PRIORITY, II for IMMEDIATE or EE for EMERGENCY telegraphic transmission. BLUE sections are for use by communications personnel only. 

<graphic href="066232197510290_49_2.jpg"></graphic>

Security classification 
Subject heading 
URGENT ONPASS TO LONDON REP SOONEST. LYNCH ARRIVE ON JULY 10. SEEKS LOAN ARRANGEMENT DETAILS ON LOANS AS DISCUSSED. MELB. AGE USED YOUR DOCUMENTS PROVIDED IN DETAIL AND WILL USE MORE IF SUPPLIED. FEE TO BE PAID THROUGH NOONAN' S OFFICE. 
Department of Foreign Affairs 
Form No. C02 
International Message Form 
Australian Diplomatic Network 
RED SECTIONS OF FORM MUST BE COMPLETED BY THE ORIGINATOR. 
In precedence columns insert BB for BAG DESPATCH or RR for ROUTINE, PP for PRIORITY, II for IMMEDIATE or EE for EMERGENCY telegraphic transmission. BLUE sections are for use by communications personnel only. 

<graphic href="066232197510290_49_3.jpg"></graphic>

Security classification X Subject heading 
URGENT PRO LONDON EX LYNCH ONPASS DOCUMENTS TO MELB AGE. FEE PAID THROUGH MELB OFFICE. AGE REQUIRE FURTHER CABLES ETC FOR FOLLOW UP STORIES. PLS ARRANGE FOR INTERVIEWS IN LONDON ON JULY 10. 
. TELEX 
To PH TREASURY 
SFW OFFICE CANBERRA 
SYDNEY 
OTHER STATES 
From AW MELBOURNE 
Date 24/6 
Signature RETURN II 
OIC RECS PLS SEND FF TO ABOVE II: 
CONCERNING FA CABLE MR G LONDON REPLY EX PARIS AND WASHINGTON ARRIVED AM CONFIRMS READINESS MOVE ON C REQUESTS YOU INFORM RE SYDNEY FOLLOWUP B. ANTE IMPLEMENTATION. OTHER PARTY FULLY AC-. QUAINTED AND APPROVES. ESSENTIAL JM CLOAKED UNTIL CLEARANCE POST AFFAIR PENDING SATISFACTORY DEVELOPMENTS. 
MESSAGE ENDS. . .TO MELBOURNE (AW) 
. II DISPATCH. 
Department of Foreign Affairs 
Form No. C02 
International Message Form 
Australian Diplomatic Network 
RED SECTIONS OF FORM MUST BE COMPLETED BY THE ORIGINATOR. 
In precedence columns insert BB for BAG DESPATCH or RR for ROUTINE, PP for PRIORITY, II for IMMEDIATE or EE for EMERGENCY telegraphic transmission. E&gt;LUE sections are for use by communications personnel only. 

<graphic href="066232197510290_50_0.jpg"></graphic>

Security classification EYES ONLY 
Subject heading FAL 
IN REPLY TO YOURS OF 1 1.00 GMT ADVISE THAT SAID NEWSPAPER'S AGE FINANCIAL EDITOR ARRIVES LONDON END THIS WEEK. INFORMATION GILHAM AND OTHERS SHOULD BE FED THROUGH SPECIFIED CHANNELS . . . TELEPHONE YESTERDAY. PARIS FEED TO FOLLOW. U.S. . . . AFOREMENTIONED SOURCE TO 
HOME . . . RECORD DISPATCHED BY OUR . . . AGREED YOUR 

 - Mr President, I believe it is rather humorous that the Government can push the Opposition around so strongly in this way by making a simple request which would delay the important matter of the appearance of  Mr Khemlani,  and yet for 2 weeks now the Government has been asking the Opposition to pass the Budget and it has found a different response. That response, of course, is a convenient one, and I do not believe  Senator Withers'  statement. I was here and I listened to his substantive remarks as to why he proceeded as he did. I reiterate that I do not believe his Press statement is a true representation of those remarks. I believe it suits the Opposition to string this matter out because it does not intend to have  Mr Khemlani  come before a select committee. The fact is that on the strategy outlined by  Senator Withers  the Opposition has put its program back one sitting day, if it intends to proceed with  Mr Khemlani  in such a way. If it introduces this measure on Tuesday it must on any reasonable request by the Government agree to an adjournment until Wednesday. So it has delayed its program by one sitting day in that fashion. 
My reason for rising was that I had prepared a series of amendments to the proposal that  Senator Withers  had suggested he would put before the Senate. Those amendments were designed to give the two of us here who are not aligned and who are not members of the major parties a representative on the select committee. Therefore I had a particular interest in the progress of that proposed motion. I spoke to the Manager of Government Business in the Senate  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  to find out what was happening. He informed me exactly as he has informed the Senate tonight. He expected the Opposition to proceed. He was doubtful, as we all were, whether the Opposition would agree to an adjournment of the debate. But the Minister expected the Opposition to proceed and to have the motion placed before the Senate. 
It was a complete surprise to me, as I am sure it was to the Minister, to find that the Opposition simply did not proceed to put the motion and reach the stage where the debate could be adjourned. Certainly I had prepared my amendments on the basis that the Opposition might very well have used its numbers to suspend Standing Orders and to proceed right through the motion. The very least I expected was the motion to be put before the Senate, to be seen there and to be considered over the weekend. It was certainly within the prerogative of the Opposition to choose net to do so. It could not be within the province of  Senator Withers  to claim that in some way he had been pressured by the Government not to proceed to have the matter made the subject of an adjourned debate. 

 Senator Withers has not earned any benefit of doubt about this matter. In my 18 months here I have heard him make scoundrels of people who want fair redistribution proposals for this nation. In recent times I have heard him make scoundrels of those people who have supported the contention that governments are made and broken only in the lower House, and I have heard the many other twists of the truth in which  Senator Withers  has been involved. On his track record I must disbelieve him. 
That small bundle of papers is a pretty tiny bit of change out of $4 billion; and, if it writes the final words on this unsavoury adventure into the backyards of London, Geneva and wherever else these people travel in their shady dealings, it might do a service if it were tabled. I can see nothing wrong with adding that mass of papers to all the others with which we have been dealing. I tabled some papers the other day. Some of them obviously were false; yet they appeared on the front page of a nationally known newspaper and were brandished in front of the public as being of importance. They have since proved to be of no importance. I tabled another letter copy which I hope is not true. I do not know whether it is or is not. 
Yes, and I had them incorporated in  Hansard.  So I see nothing wrong with having these documents added to the general mass of paraphernalia. I take the point that not many honourable senators, if any, will read them. They will have all sorts of funny little code aspects to them. They will have funny little names that probably will mean something else, and they will be practically useless, I believe. I think it would be useful to get on to some fresh subjects in politics. As I said, if that little bit of change out of $4 billion is going to do the trick, let us have it. I can see nothing wrong with supporting the motion. 
I present the following petition from 37 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That whereas the natural environment of Fraser Island is so outstanding that it should be identified as pan of the world natural heritage, and whereas the Island should be conserved for the enjoyment of this and future generations, your petitioners humbly pray that the members, in Parliament assembled, will take the most urgent steps to ensure: 
That the Australian Government uses its constitutional powers to prohibit the export of any mineral sands from Fraser Island; and 
That the Australian Government uses its constitutional authority to assist the Queensland Government and any other properly constituted body to develop and conserve the recreational, educational and scientific potentials of the natural environment of Fraser Island for the long term benefit of the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
It is pleasant to see that the Opposition is at last supporting some expenditure by the Government on necessary works. I wonder what different principle is adopted which enables  Senator Carrick  to get up in his place and say how good it is that this Bill supports the good work of the abatement of pollution. For some reason he believes that the purposes involved in the Appropriation Bills are of lesser material importance to Australians than are the purposes of this Bill. I cannot see that difference in worth. It illustrates the barefaced, cynical attitude, and the grab for power surrounding thai: attitude, in the Opposition's refusal to support the Appropriation Bills. Of course, I join in support of this Bill. I only wish that the Opposition would come to its senses and support the major financial Bills before the Senate. 
I thought that I would say a couple of words in support of the motion too and agree with the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  on that part of his otherwise rather deplorable speech. I do not believe that it reflects any credit on  Senator Withers  that he should state that  Sir Thomas  Playford has been in a decline. I am certain that, despite the political differences which occur across the broad section of the South Australian community,  Sir Thomas  Playford is held in high esteem by Labor, Liberal and Liberal Movement voters, regardless of their own political position and the way in which they have voted at elections. It was a tribute to that man that he was able to obtain a consensus of support for what he did in South Australia regardless of any defects in the political system which stood behind the boundaries of the electorates of the lower House in our State. 
Let me say quite briefly that I do not like the speeches that  Senator Withers  makes in this place. Of course, I have yet to hear him make a worthy speech with noble motives. He again adds to that continuing list of words that are chronicled in  Hansard,  and which illustrate  Senator Withers'  background. I can say this: The day that he is able from any equal basis to comment on  Sir Thomas  Playford 's service to this country will be a day that we all look forward to but do not expect to occur. As regards  Sir Thomas  choosing his successor, no one knows what  Sir Thomas's  views were on that matter and no single person in this Australian community, I believe, knows how  Sir Thomas  voted on the choice of his successor. I put that on record before  Senator Withers  attempts to smear other great people in this community. 
I support  Senator Bunton  's remarks. I do so because I believe the intention of those who framed the Constitution was that the Upper House, the Senate, should not reject money Bills. As I understand it, further evidence will be forthcoming soon to back up the view that significant authorities associated with the drawing up of the Constitution certainly never envisaged that it should be used in this way. 
I think that  Senator Shell's  remarks that I should read  Quick and Garran  will be significant later because, as I said, I believe further evidence will be forthcoming. Nevertheless, regardless of what the legal technicalities may be, I would understand that the practical result of the Opposition's move in the Senate has been to settle this issue. This will be seen in a few weeks' time to be the fact of the case. We will not need a referendum to obtain the approval of the Australian electors to settle the issue that the Senate should not again venture on this course because the Opposition has settled the issue. If there is one good service the Opposition has done it is to settle this matter of stability for future Australian governments because if a party such as the Liberal Party, with 60 per cent of the Australian public behind it, according to the opinion polls, starts off on the course of rejecting the Budget and fails- as it inevitably will fail- no other party in the future will ever try to do the same. If such a major base can be demolished in 3 weeks, it is obvious that the lesson is there for all to see. So forgetting the technicalities, or whether  Senator Bunton  has legal qualifications or whether other forthcoming studies will prove that he is right, the Opposition has settled the matter out there in the political forum of this nation. It has settled the issue for all time. The Opposition- the Liberal Party- which stands up so often and so vocally for the rights of the Senate has destroyed the function of this House ever again to oppose a money Bill. That will be the practical result that no one will deny in the future. 
I do not want to speak at any length. I just want to raise a practical issue. I understand that at this time the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is consulting with the Governor-General. I am told the consultation began at 12 o'clock. The Leader of the Opposition said, something like 10 days ago- I should not want to be held to the exact day- that he would abide by any advice given to him by the Governor-General. I think it is wrong to involve  His Excellency  in any predictions, as the Leader of the Opposition did in presuming that the Governor-General would have to do certain things. I do not want to be involved in that argument. But as a practical matter it seems that if the Leader of the Opposition made that statement a few days ago and if he is now in consultation with the Governor-General, one could expect that it is more than simply an invitation to have morning tea. I suggest that it is rather fruitless to proceed with this debate when the Leader of the 
Opposition is in consultation with  His Excellency.  I cannot see why this subject cannot be put off until we see what the Leader of the Opposition is going to do about this very unsatisfactory position in which he has placed himself. There can be no doubt that the public is not behind the honourable senators here who refuse Supply. 1 think that all those who study the general community at a local level will understand that their support on this issue will not grow but will continue to diminish. 
The funds which come from Government and support so much of the private sector will dry up. Whilst the Government may be able to make some sort of semi-satisfactory arrangements with the trading banks to meet the fortnightly requirements of public servants and those people who are dependent on government for their salaries, it is not plausible that the whole spectrum of government responsibility will be met satisfactorily in this way. So the pressure which is so evident to members will grow in a practical sense. While it may not be at the highest of levels, I remind honourable senators of that little rule which is impressed on all members of Parliament of all political parties when they first enter politics: The most significant nerve in the electorate is the hip-pocket nerve. That is put to all as the first elementary lesson of politics, and it is that nerve which the Opposition has now set twitching and which of course will go into a spasm when the money is really cut off because of the Opposition 's action here. 
I suggest that the Opposition, without a lot of fanfare, ought to prepare itself to take the action which is inevitable. Every communication coming through to me- or nearly every one, certainly 95 per cent- says that it is inevitable. A letter which I had here the other day was typical of the hundreds of letters that I and I am sure all members of Parliament have received. It stated: 
On behalf of myself and my family, we thank you for your condemnation of  Mr Fraser  for his attempt to overthrow our elected government. 
That is only a short letter but it is so representative of what the public is thinking- that  Mr Fraser  is overthrowing our elected government. That is what the public is thinking. I join with  Senator Laucke  in saying that I do not believe in introducing the names of great people, but in South Australia today an overwhelming majority of people would agree with what I am saying and with the general tone of the letters to  Senator Bunton  and I am sure to other honourable senators. The Opposition simply has to extricate itself from this position. There is no satisfactory end to a long-term confrontation. To deny that and to get up and vehemently criticise people does not change the facts. Those of us who have been in politics expect personal criticism. But all that does nothing but put a smokescreen around the inevitable conclusion that must be reached, that has to be reached. It is simply a matter of how, and that is a problem for the Opposition because it got itself into this position. I suggest as a practical measure: Why not wait until this afternoon? We are doing nothing else of any use. We are not even doing anything of any use in this debate. We are simply stalling day after day. Why not wait until this afternoon and see if there is any result? If there is no result, the Opposition can go ahead and knock it all out again, but at least it might save one more turn of the merry-go-round which the Upper and Lower Houses are riding. 
This morning there was published in the South Australian  Advertiser  and in other newspapers around Australia an account of  Sir Thomas  Playford 's belief that the Opposition should pass the Appropriation Bills in the Senate. The significance of his advocacy of that course is that  Sir Thomas,  throughout a long and distinguished career which was sometimes controversial, never relented in his determination to maintain the superiority of the lower House over that of the upper HouSe in the Administration over which he presided in South Australia.  His  party room meetings were never of a joint nature. Never did the members of his Party in the Legislative Council in South Australia form government policy. Never did they become involved in any decision which was taken by a meeting of the members of his Party in the lower House, which was the supreme policy making meeting for the Liberal-Country League in  Sir Thomas  Playford 's Government. 
This morning  Senator Wright  took umbrage, in a most flamboyant fashion, at  Senator Bunton  's advocacy that section 53 of the Constitution meant that the Senate was acting, at least in the spirit if not in the law, against the provisions of that section. 
In contravention of that section. In his usual way  Senator Wright  retorted with a good deal of abuse, but there was little substance in his argument. I promised then to make available to him some additional matter which might help him to make up his mind in regard to the Constitution and the propriety or otherwise of the Senate 's action. This afternoon I wish to quote from a memorandum of  Sir Samuel  Griffith who rose to be the Chief Justice of Australia. In fact, he was the first Chief Justice of Australia. He was a very eminent Australian. I should like to read this fairly brief memorandum which is available from his collection of papers and which, I understand, was sent to the Governor-General in 1919. At least the copy of this memorandum has on it the stamp of the Governor-General's office. It deals specifically with the question of contest between the Senate and the House of Representatives.  Sir Samuel  Griffith said: 
Under the Australian Constitution the Senate and House of Representatives have equal authority, except as to one matter of procedure. But a working rule has for the present been adopted, based upon what is called the theory of Constitutional Government, which lays down that the continued life of an Administration is practically dependent solely upon its enjoying the confidence of a majority of the House of Representatives, and that it is sufficient if it enjoys that confidence without regard to the views of the Senate. It may be that in the future some modification of this working rule will be found necessary, but for the present it must be taken as we find it. 

 Sir Samuel then went on to deal at some length with section 57 of the Constitution which deals with disagreement between the Houses which leads to a double dissolution, with a period of 3 months between the presentation of the relevant Bills and the double dissolution. Whilst it is not relevant to the present conflict between the 2 Houses, I think that this memorandum ought to be completely read into  Hansard.  It reads: 
An occasion for the exercise of the power of double dissolution under section 57 formally exists whenever the event specified in that section has occurred, but it does not follow that the power can be regarded as an ordinary one which may properly be exercised whenever the occasion formally exists. It should, on the contrary, be regarded as an extraordinary power to be exercised only in cases in which the Governor-General is personally satisfied, after independent consideration of the case, either that the proposed law as to which the Houses have differed in opinion is one of such public importance that it should be referred to the electors of the Commonwealth for immediate decision by means of a complete renewal of both Houses, or that there exists such a state of practical deadlock in legislation as can only be ended in that way. As to the existence of either condition he must form his own judgment. 
Although he cannot act except upon the advice of Ministers, he is not bound to follow their advice, but is in the position of an independent arbiter. 
In determining whether to follow it or not he should have regard, amongst other things, to the time that has elapsed since the last General Election of the House of Representatives, the state of the parties in each House, the probable consequences of refusal of the advice tendered by his Ministers, and, in particular, whether their resignation would follow the refusal, and, if so, whether there is any reasonable probability that another administration could be formed in the existing Parliament which would be able to carry on efficiently the functions of Government without dissolution of the House of Representatives. The circumstance that the existing House of Representatives was or was not elected during the term of office of the advising Ministers is also a relevant circumstance. Further, having regard to the importance of holding an even hand between contending parties, he should anxiously consider whether the acceptance or refusal of the advice tendered would be likely to give an unfair advantage to any party. 
If, on being satisfied of the existence of either of the two conditions first stated, and on consideration all these matters, and such other matters existing in the particular case as appear to him material, he forms the independent opinion that it is desirable for the efficient conduct of the government of the Commonwealth that both Houses should be wholly renewed he should grant the double dissolution, but otherwise should refuse it. 
The considerations applicable to a dissolution of the House of Representatives alone are in many respects of a different character, but the element of the duty of independent exercise of discretion on the part of the GovernorGeneral is common to both. 
I completed that statement with reference to section 57 simply so that no one could claim that the relevant clause was taken out of context. But as I mentioned, the reference to this present conflict is contained in the first part. I repeat what was said: 
It is sufficient if it enjoys that confidence without regard to the views of the Senate. 
I would hope that  Senator Wright  would know far more about  Sir Samuel  Griffith than I would because of  Senator Wright's  legal standing of which I have none.  Sir Samuel  Griffith was a very eminent Australian. The  Australian Biographical Dictionary  contains a very long and praiseworthy history of his life's work. The biography commences as follows: 
GRIFFITH, Rt.  Hon. Sir Samuel  Walker, P.C., G.C.M.G., LL.D., Qld. . . . first Chief Justice of the Commonwealth, one of the greatest Australians; . . . For 15 years G. sat continuously for N. Brisbane; from 1 879 to 1 883 he led the Liberal Opposition; from Nov. 1883 te June 1888 he was Premier; 
I would have assumed,  Mr President,  from  Senator Wright's  remarks this morning that he did not know it. He showed extreme ignorance of this point and I thought that, not being of the legal fraternity, I might remind him of what the legal fraternity thinks of this particular practitioner of the law. Perhaps  Senator Wright  does know of it. I consider it to be some degree of arrogance of him to suggest that everyone else ought to know it. The Australian Biographical Dictionary continues: 
. during 1888-90 he was Leader of the Opposition; and from Aug. 1890 to Mar. 1893 was again Premier or head of a coalition Ministry, . . . 
The biography goes on at great length. I shall read the last portion of it, which I believe is relevant: 
He was a fellow of the Senate of Sydney Univ. from 1904.  Sir Robert  Garran ... the Federal Solicitor-Gen., said  Sir Samuel  was one of the greatest men Aust, has ever produced, and one of the few Austn.  Judges who actually sat on the Judicial Committee of His Majesty's Privy Council. His wide acquaintance with constitutional practice, his broad grasp of the principles, and his keen powers of analysis were invaluable in laying down the lines of the interpretation of the Federal Constitution. His name will go down in history as that of a great constitutional lawyer, who founded on an enduring basis the traditions of the great Court over which he presided with such distinction for more than 1 6 years. 
I think this particular part of the biography is valuable for our present considerations: 
When Premier and contemporary with Parkes ... he vigorously espoused the cause of Austn Federal Union. He presided at the Federal Council meetings at various sessions and was Vice-President of the National Convention held at Sydney in 1891, over which Parkes presided. In that historic assembly G. was  Chairman  of the Sub-Committee which drafted the Convention Bill embodying a basis for constituting the Commonwealth. That Bill of 1891 was in the main G.'s personal work. Upon it  Sir Samuel  stamped the impress of his constitutional mind- in itself sufficient to give him enduring fame- and first draft though it was, the Bill of 1891 in its main outlines was accepted as the framework and basis of the Constitution drafted by the National Convention of 1 897-8, and finally approved by the people as the charter of Federal Union. 
That person who had so much to do with the formation of the Constitution just before he resigned set out his views clearly as Chief Justice in a memorandum which I have read to the Senate. 
I suggest that the net is closing on the outlaws in the Opposition who will use any device, which in this case is the death of a Labor senator, stealthily in the night, as it were, to sneak up on the Senate and take unfair advantage of that death. There is no way that honourable senators here may squirm under that assertion or claim that there is something wrong with it. It is absolutely correct and honourable senators here will not reject the Bills. They adopt their attitude on that death and they go against the most eminent jurist that this country can provide. It will do little good for  Senator Wright  to get up here and personally vilify the people who disagree with his view, as his Leader,  Senator Withers,  did today with respect to  Sir Thomas  Playford. That will not convince this Senate nor the public of Australia of the correctness of his attitude. 
It is rather surprising, of course, that  Senator Withers  should fake that view. It just so happens that  Sir Robert  Gordon Menzies, who agrees with  Senator Withers,  is one year younger than 

 Sir Thomas Playford. Does that in some way alter the area of decline which  Senator Withers  claims on behalf of  Sir Thomas  Playford? It is indeed a very sad and sorry Opposition that sits on this side of the chamber and I urge its members to take note of eminent lawyers who are far more objective and fair in their presentation than those who pretend that they know something of the law and who sit on this side of the chamber. 

 - Mr President, I seek leave to make a statement about my Party's leadership. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether he will use his advocacy within Government to have legislation brought down this year requiring all political parties to publish the major source of their election funds. 
The result of an election at which a government changes is very much like the aftermath of an auction. The buyers now have to pay the price for the goods that they have purchased. In some ways, of course, the result of the election was not a vote for the Liberal Party so much as a decided vote against the Labor Party. It may very well be that the front bench of the new Government recognises this fact quite clearly in that it is constantly referring to the mistakes of the Government that the new Government has displaced. As time moves on swiftly in political terms, the front bench of the new Government will obviously have to develop a style of its own. I find it extremely interesting, looking and watchingquietly so far- to see what sort of Government it will be that now occupies the Government benches in this Parliament. 
The manner in which the election was held is something that will have a pivotal effect on the development of the Australian parliamentary system. I cannot agree with those Government supporters who charge members of the Opposition with whinging because they constantly refer to the manner in which they were dismissed. One fact looms quite largely in political thinking in Australia immediately as a result of the manner of the dismissal of the Labor Government by the Governor-General. That is, that we cannot have a successful and democratic trial of this Government at the next House of 
Representatives election. It will be a no-election. Twice in the last several years the LiberalNational Country Parties have shown that they will not allow the Labor Party to govern unless it has a majority in this Chamber. The Labor Party will be unable to obtain a majority in this Chamber at the next Senate election. Therefore there will be no democratic test by the Australian people for at least 5Vi years. This is a direct consequence of the manner in which the Labor Government was dismissed. It immediately destroys any argument that to refer to such an important aspect of Australian political life is simply a personal vendetta by members of the Labor Party. 
Of course, at the last election there was an extreme polarisation, which was evident to those in smaller parties such as my own. This happened particularly in the last fortnight and the last week of the election campaign. In South Australia the Liberal slogan 'Turn on the Lights' was eminently successful. I understand that it was not so successful in other States; it was successful in South Australia. However, despite all the details, the polarised effect showed the anti-Labor feeling in the community and the success with which the Liberal-National Country Parties were able to have their story told to the public. 
I do not want to be distracted into making an assessment of the value of slogans. In this case in South Australia, the Liberal Party slogan helped to concentrate a vote which had already swung far away from  Senator McAuliffe  's Party. There were some humorous moments in a somewhat serious campaign. I was given a copy of the minutes of the rather numerous meetings held by the Liberal Party Senate Campaign Committee in South Australia. I will not read them all here. There are some humorous aspects to them, as  Senator Messner  would know as he attended some of these meetings. I will mention one part of the minutes for the benefit of National Country Party senators. They might be interested to know that their Liberal colleagues in the Senate from South Australia put into their minutes the statement that at all times National Country Party Ministers must be shadowed when they were in South Australia. I thought that that was some recognition of something. In fact, I would agree with the attitude of Liberal senators. I found it rather amusing that that was included in the rather voluminous minutes of their meetings which were delivered to my table. There is much left to be desired, of course, in the conduct of the election, in many ways; some of this is still occupying the headlines of Australian newspapers. 
In South Australia a number of smaller events occurred which I believe were important. I remember that on the day of the election that a person who, I believe, was an active supporter of the Labor Party, had arranged to copy a Liberal Movement how-to-vote card. He intended to distribute it in identical form to that of my own Party except for the preferences, which were switched to favour his Party. It was a deliberate attempt to deceive- with all the expense and effort required in copying how-to-vote cards. In other circumstances- for instance in the 1974 election which had a close result- it would have had a bearing on the result. As it was, in this case it had no bearing on the result of the election. After several hours of discussion with the Chief Electoral Officer in South Australia we were able to have the giving out of this card stopped. When one reads the Electoral Act it is quite obvious that there are insufficient penalties for this type of attempt to deceive and defraud. I believe it is time that all Parties examined the possibility of making limited changes to the Electoral Act to make sure that penalties are sufficient to prevent this sort of abuse and other abuses occurring. Other cases, outside South Australia, are the subject of more serious charges and are subject to adjudication by the law. 
I believe the case that has been mentioned in relation to the contribution of funds clearly shows the hypocrisy of the 3 Parties in the House. Whilst the Labor Party was in office it introduced a most comprehensive Bill to change the rules affecting elections. It was so comprehensive and so damaging to so many people who would like to make use of the electoral system that it was obviously framed not to pass, and any person in the Labor Party who brought that into a Senate dominated by Labor's opponents, in that form, would be a fool if he thought it would pass. I have no doubt that the important, simple changes which were required to make the Electoral Act a fair Act were never seriously proposed by the Labor Party. What do we find now? We find the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and his Cabinet deploring the alleged attempts by the Labor Party to bring money into this country from foreign countries. Yet the Liberal Party will take no action to amend the Act simply so that major contributions to political parties are named for public perusal. Why? 
I would support it.  Senator McAuliffe  knows that I would not support the other Bill because he had it designed to destroy all small political parties in Australia. That was the objective of that Bill. But let us not be drawn aside. There is a tremendous need, when both major Parties are so hypocritical about this question- and at present the Liberal Party fulfils that role admirably- to see that this does not occur. The Liberal Party feigns disgust at the proposed Labor Party policy but is quite happy to allow the Act to remain as it is. It is quite happy to let such breaches occur again. The Liberal Party is quite happy not to change the law.  It is- obvious,  Mr Deputy President,  that your Party is hypocritical about this matter. 
As I said earlier, as a result of the GovernorGeneral's action important results will accrue as time goes by. Before I leave that point I should like to say that I do not hold any personal view about the Governor-General. I take no vindictive view whatever. I believe that the argument about the Governor-General's action will mount more widely and fiercely when he is no longer the Governor-General. I do not believe that what happened should be seen as a cause for attacking the Governor-General personally. It is a sorry state of so-called democracy in Australia when the deposed Prime Minister, the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  is unable to speak about the detail that surrounded the negotiations, or whatever, which involved the downfall of his Government. The present Prime Minister is unable to speak because of convention and obviously the Governor-General himself is unable to explain his action. This is a so-called democracy yet, despite the action that has been taken, no reasons have been given for it. No simple reasons are apparent to the Australian people. This is not my conception of the operation of democracy. 
As I mentioned earlier, we shall all be looking with interest at the emerging style of the Government. No government is perfect. We have just lost an imperfect government, and I am sure the present Government will also be imperfect. There is no such thing as a government without blemish or a government that does not make mistakes. I have been a little concerned at the very abrupt answers by the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  and one or two of his fellow Ministers in this place to what I thought were quite proper inquiries by the Opposition. I have never heard such a response as that of the Leader of the Government today in this chamber when he said to an honourable senator that if he did not like his answer he could go to law. I do not find that helpful. No matter how provocative a question from an Opposition senator may be- provocative questions must be expected from an Opposition- it does not deserve that sort of retort. If that is continued it will quickly bring disrepute on those who use the technique. 
I refer again briefly to the problems and concerns of the Labor Party at present. The matter to which I shall refer is allied to the action of the Governor-General, the facts concerning which are unknown to the Australian people. As I understand it, Commonwealth police- at a time of great stringency in money management in Australia by this Government- are being sent overseas to investigate allegations that have been made of possible breaches of the Banking (Foreign Exchange) Regulations in the bringing of money into Australia.  Senator Withers  said today- I paraphrase his remarks, but the paraphrase is accurate- that it is reasonable when allegations have been made, albeit that they are in the Press, that the police should investigate. Does that mean that any front page story of possible infringements of exchange regulations will automatically be investigated, or is only this case to be investigated? 
-Only this one-or all? Who made the allegations? We are not told. The story which flows freely around the corridors of Parliament is that the allegations were made by the Prime Minister himself. There is no secret about that. That is what is said, and we do not know otherwise. I say this to the new Government: It is not a good start for open government in Australia for the Government to proceed in this matter, especially when so many charges were made against the outgoing Government that it was secretive about its decisions on behalf of Australia. I give the benefit of the doubt in this matter. As I said, government must develop its style. This subject is of very great moment. The public of Australia have raised the question of possible police harassment of a deposed Prime Minister. I found in the electorate of South Australianot in the corridors of Canberra- that that is a very widespread feeling in the community. It is no secret. It has probably saved the skin of  Mr Whitlam.  Therefore, it is a duty of the Government to tell us all it knows, to tell us the basis on which its actions were taken. If that does not happen Parliament will have to demand a public inquiry not only into the actions of the Labor Party but also the Liberal Party's actions which have brought about this matter. 
The Government is beginning, no doubt, to consider its framing of the next Budget. When it is introduced we shall see how far the Government intends to go in its attempt to control the rate of inflation and, of course, the consequent high rate of interest in Australia. There have been a number of contradictions in this matter. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  entered the election debate saying that it would be a fragile matter if we were to look for a consumptionled economic recovery and that the recovery would have to be based on increased productivity, not on consumption. That was a clear, definitive statement. In Melbourne on the weekend  Senator Cotton  said that recovery would have to be based on consumption. 
It seems to me that we are going to have a very great confrontation of economic theory if we have in this country an expansion of productivity and a diminution of consumption because they are two impossibles. If that proceeds there will be a fulfilment of  Mr Allan  Barnes' comments early this week in the  Age  when he reported that the Prime Minister had told his Party that by the end of the year he would be the most unpopular Prime Minister in Australia's history because of the dire actions that he was going to take. I hope that is not the situation. Certainly it is not the situation for which commerce and industry in this country are looking. These things had better be said now before the Budget is finally framed. In relation to the consumption and productivity argument, I remark in passing that a leading article in the January issue of  Rydge's,  a journal which is not known to be unfavourable to the Liberal Party- I say this on behalf of  Senator McAuliffe,  who is interested in this questionclearly states: 
Every businessman will be hoping that the economy performs well under Fraser from the start (in which case a debt will be owed to former Treasurer, Bill Hayden) because this will give him the fortitude to carry out the really major planks of his platform relating to the corporate sector . . . in particular implementation of the Mathews Committee recommendations. He will need all the fortitude he can get because the opposition to the Mathews proposals from Treasury, in particular, will be strong. 
With all of this developing style of government and ideology- we are interested in and trying to recognise the force and extent of its application I trust that nothing will be done to upset those areas of Labor policy which have proven so useful to this country. I mention in particular the trade practices legislation, which is the greatest protection that small business has ever had given to it in Australia. Any diminution of the powers of the trade practices legislation which would allow the law of the jungle to apply and enable billion dollar traders in this community to squeeze small producers as far as they like, would be a blow to the general economic sector. I would not like to see the land commissions in this country diverted, nor would I like to see the development of land in the metropolitan communities of Australia again become the province of land hopping millionaires, and we ali know of them. They have jumped development in 10 and 1 5 year hops, on each occasion to the cost of the small home-owner, who goes into debt for the rest of his life. The developer stands off, at times in some foreign country, a millionaire because of his foresight. It is for that reason as much as for any other that I support the land commission concept. 
In conclusion, I want to mention something about the return of powers to the States and the talk of a new financial deal for the States. There seems to be a belief in Liberal circles that if it is the Australian Government it is central and evil, if it is a State government it is somewhat better, and if it is a local government it is better still, but the further away it is from Canberra then obviously and automatically the better is that government. I say, as a representative of a small State and therefore not as a centralist in an ideological form, that the real question is one of too much government, wherever it is, not just in Canberra but at State level and at local government level. If there is too much of it and if people are overregulated, the very liberal concept will be destroyed by any government at any tier. 
The return to the States of taxing powers and the upgrading of local government, which I support in the context of our economic capacity, mean higher taxation for every Australian. Many examples are available of what States will do when they receive increased capacity to tax. I remember the payroll tax imposition, in which I was involved at the time. Payroll tax was returned at  2Vi  per cent. It now stands at 5 per cent, with some State governments making some minor adjustments to smaller operators for electoral purposes.  Mr Dunstan  is one of those people who aims to deceive his community by making out that he is giving some worthwhile concessions while still riding along with the general rate of 5 per cent. 
It will be the case that any tax that is returned to the States will go up, and if local government is upgraded its taxes too will go up. That may not be undesirable, depending on what the community wants from government at the 3 tiers, but we should not delude the public into believing, as I believe some Liberal speakers are doing, that there will be less burden on the taxpayer because of this so-called alteration. I for one am so cynical about this matter that I do not believe it will occur. The most recent Premiers Conference ended with a great back-slapping procession, and even Don Dunstan agreed with  Mr Fraser  that perhaps it was not such a bad thing that this new deal was to be implemented. Yet who was the greatest proponent? It was  Sir Eric  Willis, the new Premier of New South Wales, who said quite openly that he expected to get a better percentage out of the deal for New South Wales. But that is not the real crux of his action. Last week- on Wednesday, 25 February- this great proponent of the new independence for States said that he is going to the Commonwealth for $150m for his transport system at the rate of $30m a year. How is that for a man who has just welcomed his new-found independence, to be gained formally in June?  Senator Walters,  in making a case for her State, quite properly said tonight that she wanted vast new subsidies for transport. I have been involved previously with Premiers of other States in the most comprehensive compilation of a new approach to a Liberal government in Canberra to return taxing powers to the States. The operation took place over 9 or 12 months, with many Premiers meetings and more meetings of Under-Treasurers and their experts. The case is printed and is available in this Parliamentary Library, as it is in any other parliamentary library. The stage was never reached where the Commonwealth agreed to test whether the States wanted it because at the conference one of the larger States sold out within 20 minutes. 
It will not happen in the concept as it has been put forward now by this Liberal Government. It may be something that is watered down, some face-saving device, some regulated factor that does nothing more than raise the taxes in another fashion. But there is no way in which the small States will give away their breadline, which is the subsidy inherent in the uniform taxation system. We will not give it away and neither will the people of South Australia nor the people of Tasmania, as has been evidenced tonight by the representations of their senators. It is not on to talk of letting the States choose and fight it out amongst themselves and let the strongest win. That is a denial of the Australian ethic of one basic standard of living around Australia, whichever State one lives in. Everybody should live at an Australian living standard and not at a Tasmanian living standard or a Western Australian living standard or a deep north living standard. Everybody should live at an Australian living standard, and the uniform taxation system stands behind that. 
I am not against change in the system as long as it does not destroy that concept and as long as it does not delude the Australian people into thinking that they will pay less tax. One remark which has been made often- I think it is contained in the Governor-General's Speech- is that resources will be turned away from government to the private sector. In a strict commercial sense, I could not approve more wholeheartedly. I read with interest only the other day of the building of the new highway between South Australia and Western Australia. I am reminded how the three private contracting firms have carried out a tremendous job in most difficult terrain at a cost which, I would bet my boots, would be no more than half what it would have cost the Government using its own road gangs. Possibly the cost would have been one third. It is to commercial enterprises of that type that we can certainly turn to do away with government enterprise itself. 
Who are the big government commercial people in Australia? They are not the Commonwealth. They are the States. The expansion of government in Australia in a physical sense has been going on for years through Liberal Premiers. There was one Labor Premier for a period; now there are two. I do not exclude them. I mention the Liberal Premiers only to emphasise that the problem that this Government faces in reducing the size of government activities is not one that will be achieved by attacking someone with strange ideologies. The Government must deal with people of its own beliefs. 
Last year Premier Lewis of New South Wales, I think it was, announced a plan to build a multimillion dollar furniture factory in New South Wales. It would be a government furniture factory to manufacture furniture for the Government. We have one in South Australia. Why was it established? It was established because a previous Liberal government thought it was a good venture. We have no right to have that factory. I am quite sure that we pay more for our furniture because the Government manufactures it. If we look at the State governments- and it does not matter which ideology they follow, in a sense- in relation to the size of their government activities they are all expansionist. Water supply operations are carried out by government gangs instead of by using private enterprise gangs. 
-Senator McLaren and I could easily have a long argument on that aspect, if we had the time. I emphasise this point because, really and truly, what the community says in regard to this ideological aspect of more government or less government simply means: 'I want less government for you and more government for me'. I have found that to be the attitude of people in the community, whether they be at the top of the economic structure or at the bottom. So soon after the new Government has been elected these types of views are rammed home, for example, by those representing sporting groups who, I presume, have written to all honourable senators saying how bad it is that they are missing out on sporting subsidies that they were to receive from the previous Government. 
We will deal with that matter when the relevant legislation is presented. I would like honourable senators to think of that point. My representation on behalf of the public for 1 7 years, with the many contacts that I have made during that time, has not led me to believe that the public is demanding less government. I believe that the public must get less government in the commercial areas which I have mentioned. I think that is an admirable thing to do; but it is not easy to accomplish. The new Government will delude itself if it thinks that the public is waiting for this new policy of a diminution of government. It is not. Each member of the public wants more. I cannot name one person who to my knowledge does not. 
As I said, we will await with interest the development of the Government's ideological emphasis. I hope that it will reverse an early trend of secrecy in government. 1 hope that it will reverse that trend because any emphasis on an extension of democracy, which were the brave new words in the Governor-General's Speech, in this era, or whatever it is called, will be simply nothing- it will be ashes- if it is not accompanied by the opening up of government and a participation by people instead of the Government ruling them. I leave the Address-in-Reply motion and my support for it on that basis. 
I direct a question to  Senator Greenwood  who is representing the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the increasing public concern about the unknowns which surround the actions of both the Leader of the Opposition and the Prime Minister in regard to the Iraqi election funds issue, highlighted today by an advertisement in the  Australian Financial Review  inserted by the Citizens for Press Reform group, will the Government set up a royal commission to investigate the growing number of allegations in an atmosphere free of the spate of daily writs and mysterious police investigations, and give the public an opportunity to know whether (a) Iraqi funds have passed to the Australian Labor Party illegally in breach of banking regulations; (b) the Prime Minister is the source of the allegations which his Attorney-General has mentioned as the basis for Commonwealth Police action; (c) there have been communications between  Mr Rupert  Murdoch and the Prime Minister about this matter; and (d) legislation ought to be introduced to require political parties to publish the source of their campaign funds? 
I find the position of  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack interesting. I suppose he now adopts a lone position in that he will not vote for the Loan Bill 1976. It is rather a convoluted trail. Last year he would not vote for it and neither would members of his Party. Now, both major parties are voting for it because it is identical in terms to the proposal put by the Australian Labor Party last year and it is now the possession of the LiberalNational Country Party in Government. But  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack is quite true to his beliefs. He will stand alone and not vote for the measure. I suppose it is not unkind to say that there is no consequence because of the honourable senator's action. I assure the Government that there will be no election.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack is no doubt aware of that. Nevertheless, I appreciate his standing by his principles on this matter. I think this demonstrates how little control Parliament has over financial matters today and how powerful the Executive is in any modern parliament. The back bench of the Government, unless it is very strong in expertise and in the pursuit of the knowledge which it requires, usually is acquiescent in what is handed down to it. That remark applies to both sides of politics and its application is evident in the discussion which has surrounded this Bill. As I can have no influence on the legislation and as I know no more about it than does  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, I do not intend to address myself to the Bill. 
I shall speak for only a few short moments in reply to  Senator Messner's  denial of the value of land commissions. I thought he denied his whole political heritage as a senator from South Australia when he questioned the value of government intervention in order to moderate the price of building land in any urban community. South Australia under  Sir Thomas  Playford led the way in relation to unofficial land commissions many years ago when the South Australian Housing Trust became a model for all social housing in Australia as to how to keep down the price of land to those who want to build in the metropolitan areas of Australia. Many State governments sent representatives to South Australia to find out the secret of South Australia's cheap housing. 
-They did not think better of it. That is quite wrong. The States copied many of the measures, but not enough. Today in these areas the cost of land outside South Australia is usually very much higher. One of the main ingredients in South Australia's amazing industrial progress under  Sir Thomas  Playford 's management was the lower cost of housing. Throughout those years and since, South Australian governments of all complexions have made sure that the Housing Trust has had an ample supply of land for continuous development. 
To adopt  Senator Messner  's position is to abandon those people who want to build homes in the metropolitan areas and to adopt the leapfrogging activities of the wealthy and ruthless land developers. I simply cannot agree with that position. In recent days there has been a court case in the Privy Council. It is one more illustration of the leapfrogging land developer operating in Adelaide even within these conditions. Goodness knows what has happened interstate where land commissions are not favoured at times. The leapfrogging developer does not even live in Australia but he reaps the benefit of a huge accumulation of money. Such a land developer gets 1 5 years ahead of demand by buying open land and gets the money out of people who will pay the land off over the 40 years of their working life. It is a scandal that this has persisted in Australia for as long as it has. I commend the land commissions. I trust that this Government will not diminish their effect, whatever regulatory action in terms of financial management it must take in the medium term. I trust that it will do nothing to destroy the concept which, as I have said, should be deeply imbedded in  Senator Messner  's political heritage because his Party pioneered what amounted to land commission activities. In previous years I took some small part in furthering the unofficial work which was later formalised in land commission legislation. 
Many Government speakers who have spoken on the incidence of taxation and the necessity to provide greater incentive in this community have dwelt heavily on industrial development. I agree mainly with their propositions. But in the next Budget they will have to deal more carefully and firmly with the matter of personal income tax. While there may very well be great and even increased pressure on the proposed deficit for next year, the matter of personal incentive for Australians must not be forgotten in the welter of concentration on industrial progress. There simply has to be some form of indexation and reduction of taxation in those areas where it now hurts personal incentive. I leave honourable senators with the thought that that reduction is unlikely to be achieved collectively if the Government pursues to the bitter end its proposal to hand income taxing powers to the States. I trust that it will carefully examine that proposal and see the fallacy of it before the next Budget is fully framed and the matter is put in train. 
-My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of reports which are critical of Government policies or its Ministers currently being presented in newspapers, as distinct from similar criticisms  Senator Withers  believes are from time to time orchestrated by Labor supporters within the Australian Broadcasting Commission, does the honourable senator believe the newspaper journalists who have written articles such as are contained in this morning's  Age  and  Australian Financial Review  are similarly motivated because they are supporters of the Labor Party? 
I rise to state briefly my growing concern at the apparent disregard of some members of the government for civil liberties in the Australian community. Of course, it is natural in any parliament that the extravagances of temperament can lead individuals to make claims which sometimes they later regret and which one can write down at times as being simply a personal expression that does not convey the will of the party to which the  speaker  belongs. Therefore those views are not taken as indicating any general trend or any dangerous manifestation in the controlling administration. However, an aggregate number of occurrences recently have caused me concern. I am indeed worried that at a time when the Government is concentrating quite rightly on the economic problems which are severe in Australia it might do so to the detriment of the freedoms which we have enjoyed up till now. There are many notable countries in the world which have demonstrated that a magnificent economic recovery can be obtained with, at the same time, the loss of a major amount of the freedoms which the community had enjoyed. We do not want that to happen here. 
There are 4 recent occurrences which, amongst others, have caused me concern. The first was the mention made by the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  of a possible charge being laid against the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  of sedition. This has received a fairly critical response from the community at large. Some people believe that we would be emulating some of those leaders in darkest Africa if the Leader of the Opposition in a democracy such as ours could be under the threat of legal action and of its consequences for sedition. A second instance I relate is one of recent days when the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  criticised the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for not holding down wages in the community and for recommending a national wage increase of 6.4 per cent. 
I believe that occurrences of yesterday have invalidated that criticism because General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd awarded a wage rise to certain employees far in excess of the 6.4 per cent increase recommended by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The Commission therefore cannot be charged with being the economic arbiter in wages. It has the duty of preventing disputes and is the innocent party in this particular wrangle. In fact, the nettle of wage fixation is not a matter for the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission but is a matter for the Government. If the Government wants to succeed in that area by way of legislation or force it can only do so on its own initiative. But if there is disorder as a result of that action it will not be the fault of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, which is charged with preventing industrial disorder concerning claims for increased remuneration. 
I think it was yesterday that the suggestion was put forward and received by our  President  that an investigation should be conducted into the accreditation of 2 journalists in Parliament House because of criticisms which have arisen which do not concern anything which has been reported from this House. I believe that it is a very substantial departure from the usual type of investigation that one would expect for a journalist who writes about something completely outside the activities of this House to be investigated in this way. As we know, the subject is still a matter of possible debate in this chamber following the President's statement to the Senate today. If his statement is read correctly I believe that it diplomatically says just what I am saying: It is not the business of this Senate to concern itself with the action that has been suggested. 
Yesterday and today we heard the Leader of the Government in the Senate embarking on what appears to be a personal vendetta against the Australian Broadcasting Commission. In all these matters it would seem that in aggregate we have an attempt to demoralise people who are members of commissions or working employees of institutions of very long standing in the community and who at times have been vigorous in their actions. But I believe that these people have operated within the laws of this nation and that now they are being subjected to a type of parliamentary intimidation.  Senator Withers  in particular has in no way substantiated his wild accusations. This morning in reply to a question asked by  Senator Douglas  McClelland,  Senator Withers  was unable or unwilling to state one item which would support the charge which he so recklessly made yesterday. In response to a question to which I did not expect an answer, he would not comment on his view of newspaper journalists and their criticisms of government. He would not place them in any way within the same strictures that he has placed the Australian Broadcasting Commission. He said yesterday when referring to the Australian Broadcasting Commission: 'You blokes have been leaning on it for years'. He concluded by saying: 'The sooner it is cleaned up the better as far as I am concerned '. 
I thought that  Senator Withers'  Minister in the Lower House this morning very politely but purposefully repudiated the Leader of the Government in the Senate and said, in answer to a question asked by the Leader of the Opposition in  the  other place:  'Senator Withers  is a very valuable and capable colleague. He speaks with a bluntness which can be refreshing-' He then paused and said: 'on occasions'. The tenor of this reply was not lost on members of the other place  nor  was it lost on others who were listening. I am pleased that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications in another place,  Mr Eric  Robinson, has taken such a sensible view, and has agreed  to  an investigation into the ABC which is welcomed by its Acting Chairman and which will be  welcomed  by all thinking people in the community. I reject the thought that people in the Australian Broadcasting Commission whom I respect and whom I believe a host of members of the publicrespect will feel intimidated that the Leader  of  the Government in this place, an important Minister in this Administration, can so loosely charge people collectively without any finite instances whatsoever. 
It is true. What I am saying cannot be denied. Is it a system of British justice to charge  an  organisation or an individual loosely without  any  information? Can we assess the  Tightness or  wrongness of the Minister's statement if he will give no example whatsoever? One cannot begin a trial or as assessment when there is no information. Of course the Minister, as any Minister  of  the Crown other than he would do, should either substantiate his claims or withdraw them. If he will do neither his standard of operation will bc below every other member of the Ministry.  His  colleagues are exhibiting some honour in this matter. 
On Tuesday the Attorney-General made what was a very substantial mistake in answering an important question. On Wednesday he had the ministerial responsibility to correct himself at great embarrassment to himself. Whatever the rights or wrongs of the question and answer may be I believe it is a sign of a very real regard for his ministerial responsibilities for him to do that. We know, despite the public criticisms of the Attorney-General, that he would never involve himself in these loose and collective charges that the Leader of the Government has involved himself in here. I express concern that this subject in aggregate is something which we must guard against. 
I end by centring my regard and giving an example of what can happen to our freedoms. There has been talk on the national scene of a Privacy Bill. A Privacy Bill was talked about by the Labor Administration and I understand it is being loosely talked about by the present Liberal Administration. It concerns me that the people to whom I referred in these 4 instances may have a hand in drafting and implementing a Privacy Bill in the national Parliament. I wish to refer to the Privacy Bill which was passed through the lower House of the South Australian Parliament, controlled by a Labor administration, in 1974 and to indicate to the House briefly how our freedoms can easily disappear if an administration believes that it is being pursued by the media, as it would appear at least  Senator Withers  believes he is so pursued. At this late hour I shall refer only to the relevant clause on how our freedoms would have disappeared in South Australia had the Legislative Council passed the Bill. The extract to which I refer reads: 
. 'rightofprivacy'meanstherightofapersontobe free from a substantial and unreasonable intrusion upon himself, his relationships or communications with others, his property or his business affairs, including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, such an intrusion by - 
A number of quite proper exclusions are then listed. The caption is that the person has to be free. The clause continues: 
e ) the use or disclosure of 
confidential information; or - 
I emphasise this point- 
facts, including his name, identity or likeness, likely to cause him distress, annoyance or embarrassment . . . 
I think all honourable senators would know on upon thinking about it the implication of making it an offence punishable by fine or imprisonment if someone publishes a fact which is likely to embarrass. That is the extent to which a State parliament, with government instigation through its Lower House, went to suppress the rights of individuals in the South Australia community. I expressed at that time my great concern and took some little hand in having that Bill defeated. 1 expressed concern when the Labor Party talked in office of a Privacy Bill because of the actions of it colleagues in South Australia. I express my concern now that a Liberal administration talks of a Privacy Bill at a time when it members can involve themselves as I have listed at the beginning of my remarks. It would be a very strange and sorry thing if the left and right were to combine so vigorously- I refer to the South Australian Parliament and to the Liberal Administration here- in suppressing individual freedom. 
I would call on the Leader of the Government in the Senate to either substantiate his charges which I believe have embarrassed his own leader and have worried the public, particularly the Australian Broadcasting Commission's employees, or properly to withdraw them. By so doing he will be upholding the standards which his colleagues have set and which he so far has not upheld in this House. 
 I raise a matter which I believe may be subject to some confusion because of the ministerial responsibilities which were allocated temporarily during the term of the interim government before last year's general election. Before that election  Senator Guilfoyle,  I understand, as Minister for Education, made a ruling in relation to some private tertiary education organisations and that ruling appears to have caused a great deal of difficulty in the running of those organisations. I refer in particular to the Hale's colleges organisation which runs 3 business colleges in Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide. I raise this matter for no reason other than the principles involved. I do not do so because of any particular interest in one organisation, although, of course, it is a non-profit organisation. I am informed by the managing director that his colleges will go out of business unless the Government can increase the allocation that is made on behalf of students who attend those colleges. 
The story as it has been put to me and as I understand it is, in brief, that when the previous Government removed the fees at government tertiary institutions the private business colleges which had to continue charging fees were, of course, at a distinct disadvantage. Their numbers of students dropped remarkably. In fact, the number of students attending Hale's business college in South Australia dropped from 166 in 1974 to 99 in 1975. That was a quite understandable result of the private colleges having to continue charging fees. Some time during 1975-1 believe, about mid-year- the Government allocated $450 per student to the students attending Hale's colleges. While in the somewhat interim position of Minister for Education,  Senator Guilfoyle  indicated to the Hale's organisation last December that the payments made on behalf of students this year would be subject to the absolute ceiling of that amount which was paid last year. So the natural inclination of the student numbers to rise now that assistance is being given has not been matched by the same per capita assistance this year. The amount that was paid on behalf of 99 students last year- at $450 a student- now applies in absolute figures in South Australia to 165 students. This reduces the subsidy- the management rejects the word 'subsidy' and uses the figure of payment per student which, I believe, is a credible way of referring to it in relation to other colleges- and the effective payment per student to approximately $280. The loss that is being sustained this year by the Hale's organisation is very considerable. The Minister has those figures but perhaps they are best left confidential to the Minister's files. 
Nevertheless, it seems to be a simple organisational and financial problem brought about by those simple events. The removal of fees for Government tertiary institutions reduced dramatically student numbers at the private colleges. The payment per student last year raised the attendances. If the payment per student is based on last year's enrolment and the total applied to this year's enrolment, the effective subsidy is halved or substantially reduced. This particular business organisation is a non profit teaching college. It does seem to me that an important principle is involved. I am told that between 45 per cent and 50 per cent of the students at the 3 schools are receiving living allowances under the Commonwealth tertiary education scheme, which seems to be a remarkable recognition that these colleges are fulfilling their proper role in the community as tertiary education centres. It is true also that they fulfil that role at a very much reduced cost in comparison with what it would cost the Government to run a government tertiary institution. It would be only a fraction of the government payment per student per year in this  per capita  payment form. What does seem to raise an injustice is the comparisons provided to me by the Managing Director of Hale's Colleges Ltd, between what is paid on behalf of his students this year and what is paid to other colleges. In a letter to me, he stated: 
I enclose copies of letters sent to  Senator Carrick  by the Staff and Students of our Adelaide School. I would like to assure you that both letters arose from the spontaneous indignation of teachers and students. 
The decision by  Senator Guilfoyle  on December 11, 1975 creates two injustices. Students in our Schools face discrimination when compared to students in public institutions, but they also face discrimination when compared with other private Colleges, in which courses are approved by the Commonwealth Office of Education. 
Mercury College Sydney (one of 5 approved Colleges, in New South Wales) received $450 for a six months' course. A new six months' course commences on June 28, so that Mercury will receive $900 per seat. Mercury was admitted to the Course after December 11, 1975. 
Stott 's College Melbourne will receive $7 12 per student. Stott 's was admitted to the Course after December 1 1, 1975. 
That is the important part of that letter. The Managing Director has assured me that the facts are as I have stated, that there are no hidden factors and that there are no other material matters which affect the comparisons which he has given. I must say that it seems to me that if this is the case- as I have presented it here on the material supplied to me- Hales suffers by desirable comparison with other colleges which are, no doubt, of high repute. But, of course, Hales also is of high repute as anyone in the business community knows. It is an injustice if these colleges have been admitted after the ruling given by  Senator Guilfoyle  at a figure which makes them viable, whereas Hales is retained because of the drop in its increase in enrolment at a figure which is utterly uneconomic. I present this to the Minister in the hope that he will take some action at least to provide an equitable basis as between the various business colleges and, to increase the support of the students attending Hales not only to bring them to an equitable stage with other colleges but also to take advantage of the much cheaper training they receive there in relation to government institutions and to provide a lighter load on the public purse. I may say- this should appeal to  Senator Carrick-  that surely it would be a blow for free enterprise if these colleges were supported because they are more economic for a purse which is already overloaded. 
Leaving aside for a moment the particular political philosophies which may have contributed most to the problems of Australia's economic scene today, it is evident that it is a common problem which bedevilled the last Labor Administration and which now after these 6 months in office faces the Liberal-National Country Party Administration. It is the problem of inflation in this community and all those great problems inflation brings in its train in relation to economic stability. 
There is, however, one aspect about the Bills we will discuss which gives me cause for some wry humour. It is that in the course of the passage of the previous legislation incidental to Medibank, I voted with the Labor Government to implement an income tax levy to help pay for Medibank. I was reviled in my own State and, in fact, my political reputation suffered greatly as a result of attacks from the Liberal Party for so doing. It now gives me a great deal of pleasure to entertain the prospect of again voting for an income tax levy to help pay for Medibank, and this time to find that the Liberal Party will be my friend. I hope that this will mend some of the fences which were broken in South Australia and will make those Liberals who were so caustic and so bitter in their criticism and who called me a Labor supporter for so doing, think twice about their previous criticisms. 
I am somewhat confused, as I think Australians are confused, by the constant repetition of the terms ' business confidence ' and 'consumer spending'. There is an emphasis which runs through this debate here in the Senate and in public that all we need to do is to have a rise in business confidence and a rise in consumer spending and there will be no more economic tribulations to face this Government or this community. This puzzles me. What is, after all, business confidence? Is it some mystical thing that a businessman suddenly gets after he has had a good dinner, or does he read a new Government statement and say that he will rush out and buy new capital equipment? Surely in practical terms it means opportunity. Business confidence is not something that one can artifically engender at the head of a business. Boards will act and invest only if there is an opportunity to make a profit from serving the community in their particular field. 
As far as consumer spending is concerned, this would be the basis of increased sales locally of many products made in Australia but it would not be the only element needed to bring back stability to the Australian economic scene. We are not in isolation even though many of our policies would indicate that the Government and many of us think we are. There is one very real instance of government policy in Australia which would lead us to think that we are in isolation and that is the policy in relation to our motor vehicle industry , one of the most foolish policies ever generated in this country. This is a country with a market for under half a million vehicles a year, a great number of them being supplied by imports, and we are actively encouraging 5 major manufacturers here. This is going in the face of economics in relation to the motor vehicle industry across the world and the Government, as much as the previous Government, in this regard should consider how many manufacturers in the United States make over 50 000 motor cars a year, how many in Sweden, how many in 
France and how many in Germany. It will find that this country cannot afford the present policy we have on motor car manufacture. 
It is a prime example of how Australia lives in isolation and establishes a tariff barrier to increase production in one of the most inefficient industries in the world in terms of output per man and price per vehicle. But putting that aside, it is the cost structure of this country which is paramount in all we are talking about. There was a very dismaying leading article in the  Bulletin  issued today and headed 'Australia Unprofitable'. It should cause all those who talk about business confidence a great deal of thought. I shall read an exerpt from the article. It states: 
At today's prices many of our richest mines, our most fertile land, our prime real estate development sites have basically become unprofitable prospects. Paul Phillips, of the Australian Mining Industry Council, lobbying for devaluation, says projected costs of the top 40 mines nearly doubled in the past 18 months. 
The article goes on to say that a bitumen driveway at a Port Hedland motel cost $ 1 5,000 to put down in 1967. After cyclonic damage this year the cost of replacement was negotiated at $58,000. The article continues: 
Little would exist today of Australia's great wealth producers, the farms and mines, if the investment had to be justified within the present framework. 
The article mentions high rise buildings and states: 
In the present soft leasing market, office rates are below $5 a square foot on big areas. To justify a new building like the NM - 
That is, the National Mutual building -  rents would have to go to $ 1 3. 
I invite any honourable senator to contemplate investing a multi million dollar sum in Australia today in a productive enterprise, and I do not mean selling goods from one to another, dealing in real estate or speculation but adding value to an object or objects. I invite any honourable senator to state the profitable investment into which he would put a multi million dollar sum of money. The more we survey the scene the more we will find that Australia is an unprofitable country. The profits are being made on investments on past day values. All of us have friends in small industries. I have many such friends who have said to me: 'How I wish I could get out of this enterprise'. Costs, incidental in so many people's minds, loom so large to entrepreneurs. I was told by a prominent motel operator recently that the wages of a dishwasher in the United States of America are lower than they are for dishwashers in Australia. To conclude this brief reference to small businesses, there is no doubt that small businesses have fallen between the 2 power groups in Australia, the unions and government, and it is not enticing to consider the prospect of entering small manufacturing processes with all the incidental costs and pressures which are loaded against them. 
The main component of all our problems is the still accelerating rise in wages in Australia. The argument is that they should remain safe against all pressures by the indexation which is complete and which will make the first claim on the economy of this country to be paid to wages. As long as union power is sacrosanct in support of a full indexation I believe that no government policies will be successful in meeting the problems which are being debated here. In fact, one of the only ways that industry has of meeting a fully indexed wage structure is to replace people with machines. I talked recently to one industrialist who told me that his firm had put off 700 people last year and replaced them with machinery and was intending to replace another 500 people in 1976. It was the only way in which the firm could remain viable and show a minimum profit on the funds which had been invested. 
If profits are as low as they obviously are, so frequently calculated on values which are put there by inflation and are not expressed in real terms, there is only one way in which there can be any saving time, any grace time, for catching up with the cost structure in Australia and that is by breaking the automatic full indexation of wages. That is the greatest job that the Government has before it. I also believe that surely in the minds of those people who have produced what is called this economic packet is the knowledge that what we have seen so far is only the laying of the groundwork for further and more important action on the issue of wage restraint. This package is only beginning to lay the ground to moderate wage indexation and to relate it somehow to productivity in Australia. No doubt the emphasis on child endowment and the social justice which it brings is an excellent beginning to asking others to bear some cost which is needed to relate Australia's economic costs to those of its trading partners. 
I would say too that the new federalism policy which has been talked about so freely has hidden dangers which ought not to be so hidden in the cost structure of Australia. One of the most inefficient economic machines of all 3 tiers of government is the State government tier and to remove the spending power from a Federal government and place it in the hands of a State government is to reduce the value and efficiency of that spending. Any regard for the day labour forces of the States of Australia will clearly show that political ideology has nothing whatsoever to do with the growth of day labour forces. I would like to have the statistics on how many are paid weekly around Australia by State governments to do ineffectively and with about two-thirds of the efficiency jobs that could be done by private contractors. 
One of the issues which the Government is ignoring apparently in offering States the capacity to levy an income tax is that they will build their day labour forces quite contrary to the political philosophy of the Liberal Party. One of the conditions that should be applied if the States are to gain income taxing powers is that they reduce those day labour forces and introduce far more contract work into their very large physical operations which involve the spending of their capital funds. It is a joke that the hardest jobs in State government are given to private contractors to do because it is too hard to assemble day labour government forces to complete the jobs. In South Australia there is an excellent example. The hardest and toughest road construction project the State has known is the finishing of the connection of the sealed link across the Nullabor to Western Australia. This has been completed, over 300 miles of it, by private contractors. One does not find private contractors within 100 miles of Adelaide. The hardest jobs are done in that way; the more comfortable ones are accomplished at a much more leisurely pace and at much greater cost by day labour under State governments. This one factor of the so-called federalism policy of returning spending power to the States will add to the ineffectiveness of the economic recovery of this country. 
The cost of production in this country is something that the  Bulletin  article has dealt with and there have been many references to the growing cost of production compared with that in the United States of America, Japan and others of our trading partners. We have already an enormous tariff barrier to protect motor vehicle manufacture here, as we have for many other Australian industries. AH of us would want to see our industries protected against cheap labour from overseas, especially in countries where the living standard in no way approaches that of Australia. But we are protecting Australian industries today against countries which have living standards equal to our own and we are doing so in a way that makes our exports almost incompatible on an overseas market. The warning is clearly there, that to develop business investments today in Australia and expect to compete on a world market is almost an impossible prospect given the rate of inflation which we have and the full indexation of wages which apparently is to be supported by the strong trade union movements in Australia. 
Unless we can receive moderation in these fields; unless we can recognise that Australia has a very small percentage of its work force with a high level of salaries and wages- in fact, I think that only 3 per cent of the Australian work force is paid over $30,000 a year, which by international standards would be a very low figureunless we can understand that there are no sacrifices that we can ask the tall poppies to make which would be sufficient to cure Australia's economic ills, and understand that all of us have to take some part in creating the stability which this economic package calls for; and unless the union movement can understand that it is directly involved in that, there will be no satisfaction and this economic package will all in vain. The package has my support,  Mr President,  especially the levy for Medibank under the conditions which I mentioned previously. I do hope that the Government sees this as laying the ground for firmer action to ask for restraint and to expect to obtain restraint. I hope that that will thereby break what is the most insidious problem in Australia's economic scene- the rate of inflation, coupled with interest rates which are automatically high at the same time- and that it will do what is necessary to achieve a reduction in inflation because that is the only way in which we can develop the wealth of which we have so much in this country. 
I ask the Minister for Education whether he has been able to take action to remedy any of the anomalies that exist between the support provided to students attending private secretarial colleges, and whether he has been able to assist the particular college that 
I mentioned in an adjournment debate some weeks ago. 
In his speech last week  Senator Bishop  inquired of South Australian senators how they had replied to the  Speaker  of the South Australian House of Assembly in response to a resolution which was passed by that House, a copy of which was sent to all South Australian senators. I am pleased to have the opportunity to read my reply to the  Speaker  of the South Australian House of Assembly for  Senator Bishop's  benefit. It reads: 
Thank you for sending me as you were directed a copy of the resolution passed in the House of Assembly on Tuesday, 1 7 August, concerning the shipbuilding industry at Whyalla. 
I would be grateful if you would inform the House of Assembly of my reply. 
I deeply regret the inability of the shipbuilding industry in our State to compete with competition from overseas markets. 
The effect on the South Australian citizens who have made their home at Whyalla is greatly to be deplored. 
However, I earnestly hope that suitable arrangements can be made to continue the employment opportunities in that city. I do not accept the proposition contained in the resolution that Whyalla is endangered because of lack of support from the Australian Government. 
It is a matter of grave concern that a superficial political attitude should be used by the South Australian Government to try and obscure the basic reasons for the problem. 

 Senator Bishop, who is trying to interject, wanted to know what I said. I am informing him now. The letter continues: 
The real reasons lie with the very high rate of inflation that has been generated in this country in recent years. 
In this regard it is quite evident that the Liberal Government in Canberra now has the onerous task of sharply reducing the disastrously high rate of inflation established by the previous Labor Administration. 
If the House of Assembly therefore desires to apportion blame for the current situation it should couple the Whitlam years with those of the Dunstan Government which has administered one of the most inflationary State policies in Australia. 
I agree with the resolution's desire to preserve Whyalla 's future. 
However, unless the Labor movement and its political wing can recognise the failure of its economic policies I am afraid many other worthwhile Australian industries will be placed in similar circumstances. 
It was therefore with some approval that I heard the statement read today by the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Senator Durack,  concerning a wages policy. There is no doubt that the position in Whyalla relates directly to the statement read to the House today. Before I deal with that in detail, I should like to deal with one or two other points made by  Senator Bishop.  He mentioned the delay in the rail standardisation of the Adelaide-Port Pirie line. He gave his speech the distinct impression- in fact I think one could say it was a charge- that the delay was occasioned by a Liberal government. I take that to mean this Liberal Government. The facts of the matter were that the previous Liberal administration had approved the first Maunsell report in 1970. The report was disagreed with to the extent of the metropolitan connection with that main standardised plan. The State Liberal 
Country League Government disagreed with the Maunsell report. In South Australia the Labor Government came to office in 1970. Any responsibility for finalising those arrangements rested with the Labor Government in South Australia from 1970 and with the Federal Labor Government from 1 972 to 1 975. It is deliberately wrong for  Senator Bishop  to blame anyone but bis own party, Federal or State, for the delay of that important work in South Australia. 
Secondly, of course,  Senator Bishop  again raised the issue of Dartmouth.  Senator Cavanagh  would know very well that the issue of Dartmouth has long passed, but it is still current, I suppose, to the extent that had the drought in Australia extended through to the Australian Alps this season we would have been in a disastrous position in South Australia because of the Dunstan Government's refusal to pass the legislation for 2 long seasons. That Government, during the 1970 election campaign, said: 'We will build 2 dams following the Stott line'. That decision was announced prior to that election for political purposes and to achieve political advantage. The Dunstan Government knew full well that it could not build the 2 dams at Dartmouth and Chowilla. Of course, this led the State into great danger for 2 seasons longer than it ought to have been. 
-We will see about that.  Senator Cavanagh  has had his day as others have had their day. However I notice that  Senator Cavanagh  is sitting on the Opposition benches.  Senator Bishop  made one valuable contribution to the Budget debate when he said: 
Nothing is produced unless labour is applied. If we lose the ability to produce we lose the skills which go with it and the technical know how. Australia cannot afford that. 
I think the whole key of  Senator Bishop's  debate was that nothing is produced unless labour is applied. That basically is what the whole of this economic argument is about. Honourable senators opposite in this debate have entered into one long lament that not enough is being spent. That is the whole tenor of the Opposition's objection to this Budget and of its support of the amendment moved by its leader. Most of the Opposition's argument failed on the figures provided by its own speakers. 

 Senator Wriedt, in a very well documented speech, went through the increases in expenditure which the previous Labor Government instituted during its years of office. Commonwealth expenditure on its activities increased by 20 per cent in the financial year 1973-74 whereas payments to the States increased by 2 1 per cent. In 1974-75 Commonwealth expenditure increased by 32 per cent whereas payments to the States increased by 53 per cent. The last budget brought down by the Labor Government provided for an increase in Commonwealth expenditure of 24 per cent whereas the increase to the States was 32 per cent. The Leader of the Opposition makes a virtue of the very reasons why Australia is now going through one of the most difficult economic problems of all the Western countries. He makes a virtue of the very input behind those failures. He defines it clearly in his speech in many other references to the high expenditure of the Labor years. I could not help but smile today when  Senator Button  asked a question as to what is normal when people say that they want to get back to some normalcy. I can assure  Senator Button  that one thing that we do know is that the expenditures of the Labor regime are abnormal by Labor's own claim. They stand behind the greatly accelerated inflation rate which they helped to establish in this country and which it is so difficult to reduce. 
I do not want to be distracted by  Senator Cavanagh.  He knows my view on the Senate 's attitude to money Bills quite well. They have not altered.  Senator Bishop  was innocently right when he referred to the fact that everything is done with a labour input, whether it is a service or a manufacture. He knows full well that our standard of living depends on our trade and that our exports and imports are very finely balanced figures. I think that the August figures were publicised this morning. If our costs of production are exorbitantly above those of our major trading partners we are indeed in very great economic trouble and will be unable to maintain the standard of living that we have developed to this stage. We measure that standard of living by cash rewards and hours of work to mention 2 of the most notable factors which are the subject of industrial disputation. It is about these 2 matters that most of the disputes arise. The cost of labour in Australia is at an extremely high level. Figures were given on the seventh of this month in the South Australian annual report of the Metal Industries Association. The unit cost of labour in Australia, which  Senator Bishop  referred to, rose between 1973 and 1975 by an estimated 44 percent. 
-They are the people who are trying to buy the cars that are in almost every case twice the price of cars made in countries of a comparable  living  standard. If one looks at a report in the  Bulletin  of several weeks ago one is staggered to find the low cost of cars in places like Sweden and Germany. Germany was just extolled by the previous speaker as a country with a high living standard. Of course, it is a country with workers against which the workers in this country cannot in any way compete. As far as motor cars are concerned, we have Japanese manufacturers working identical machines in Japan who come to Australia and say: 'Our production in Japan with the identical machine is double what it is in Australia'. One begins to wonder what is wrong with the industrial scene in this country. 
In referring further to wage comparisons between Australia and other countries the report to which I have referred says that Australia's wages are by far the highest when compared with 7 other member countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development The next highest was the United Kingdom with an increase of 26 per cent a year. We have heard of and marvelled at the disruption in the UK and the way in which governments have been held hostage by the Labor movement and the union movement yet our increase in wages is at the rate of 44 per cent a year and the UK's rate of increase is 26 per cent a year. Last year Australia had the third highest labour costs for process workers with an hourly rate of $4.24. The Netherlands topped the list with $5.07 and Belgium came second with $4.92. The South Australian report goes on to detail the tremendous problems that this poses for manufacturers in Australia. Obviously we have been more reckless than other countries. The Labor administration in the years 1972 to 1975 had a very great bearing on the economic factors which were imported from overseas. The obvious pressures on wages and salaries caused by the enormous increases in government expenditure, which are extolled as a virtue now by the Leader of the Opposition, played a great part in this. 
-That is not the case now. During this debate the Opposition speakers have blamed this Government for not spending enough. In the time since they governed  they  have in no way altered their economic appraisal of what is needed for Australia. We are dealing with the basis on which they are now presenting their arguments to this chamber. I support the intention of this Budget to return Australia to some normalcy, in the sense that it means an increase in standards, wages and production at a more or less constant rate which this country can absorb and does not follow the shop window economics of the Opposition, which believes that all that counts is the money value of wages and not what they will buy. The figures that  Senator Wriedt  used were augmented by the rough and tumble politics of the likes of  Mr Clyde  Cameron from South Australia, who  Senator Cavanagh  would know very well, who in his ministerial capacity advocated that the workforce of Australia should go outside the arbitration system. A senior Minister of the Labor Government advocated that the workforce of Australia should get by direct action what they could not get by carefully measured awards. I must say that this is something that the Labor Government does innocently, but the very fact that it stands in office means that its followers look forward to a division of the spoils of office. That in itself is not a policy defect of a Labor government but it is a very real factor. 
Added to that expectation of the spoils of office was the deliberate overspending by Government and the deliberate incitement by senior Ministers of the workforce to move outside the arbitration system. We are now dealing with the results in a Budget which tries to stabilise a very unstable economy. During Labor's years of office many people who saw the tug of war between wages and capital or, if one uses the old fashioned terms, between labour and capital would have seen this as simply a disision of economic capacity between the workers' share and capital's share. But of course it went much further than that. It was simply not a load placed against capital for labour's benefit in some seesaw of the division of spoils but it has been a very long term imposition against the exporters of Australia, who bear the brunt of maintaining our living standard. This is where it ends up. It does not end up as something X company bears as an added wage cost and loads its cost of production. It ends up at the door of the exporter who determines our living standard. 
The Opposition speakers have said tonight that they lament the fact that there is not enough expenditure in the Budget. What they are saying is that costs in Australia should go higher. They are saying to people who work in motels: 'You should be paid more ', and this at a time when the tourist industry is in a state of crisis. We are even exporting jobs in service industries. This applies not only in manufacture; jobs in service industries are being exported as a result of this policy. That is what members of the Labor Party are saying today if their remarks are distilled to simple terms. They are saying: 'Let us have greater accelerated wage rises'. The cost of these increases is being laid at the door of the exporter. For goodness sake, surely the Labor Party knows today how important these exporters are to the people whom it represents in this Parliament. 
One of the main factors in this disastrous double figure rate of inflation is the militant union movement. There are 2 factors involved in this. The first is the militant unionist; the second is the weak employer who will move outside the arbitration system, too, to accede to the standover tactics of the militant unionist. Both of these areas must be dealt with at some length if we are to achieve some reasonably sensible management of this country. 
If  Senator McLaren  cares to look at union militancy in Australia today he will see the current situation. Honourable senators arrived in Canberra yesterday or the day before with some difficulty as a result of the go-slow tactics of the air traffic controllers. That dispute was settled last evening and flights returned to normal this morning. On the same news service reporting that settlement, we were informed that the mails are jammed up again in New South Wales. If we look more deeply at the newspaper reports of the last 2 days, we see the present industrial situation. It is revealed by even a casual reading of them. I have taken out a few clippings of the industrial unrest normally occurring in Australia. The first headline I come to is: 
-What duty does  Senator McLaren  have in the Senate,  Mr Deputy  President? Is his duty to the people of South Australia or to the people of New Zealand? Whom does he represent? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order!  Senator McLaren,  you will come to attention. I call  Senator Steele  Hall. 
I said earlier,  Mr Deputy President,  that the ultimate price is borne by the exporter who cannot pass these costs on. He will go out of business or he will exist without proper capital investment or he will have to make some new arrangement with the person whom he supplies internationally- and he is unlikely to do that. I suggest to  Senator Bishop  and to  Senator McLaren  that they should read articles such as those which appeared in the  Australian Financial Review  on  1  September of this year under the heading: 'BHP Loses Big Local Customer'. What this means is that Australian jobs will cease. Let us put it in other terms: There is to be a loss of probably some hundreds of jobs because of this action to which I will refer. The article reads: 
Big steel user Ralph McKay Ltd has saved a multi-million dollar export business by substituting high cost BHP steel with Japanese steel. 
The company has negotiated a long term relationship with Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd in Japan for its export steel requirements. 
The agreement, made through Okura Trading Co. (Australia) Pty Ltd is disclosed in the company's annual report, released yesterday. 
The article continues: 
Significantly, the Japanese steel was higher priced than local steel when Ralph McKay opened negotiations a couple of years ago, but it appears now that prices are substantially below those of the Australian product. 
In these circumstances, with Australian jobs in the motor vehicle industry disappearing- but I emphasis above all the loss of work in the basic industry of steel making in which we used to produce the best and the cheapest in the world because of the natural advantages of having an abundance of coal and iron ore resources in Australiaand the loss of jobs in other basic industries, do honourable senators opposite still maintain that we should spend more? The obvious result will be a wage hike in Australia. There is no answer to this question from honourable senators opposite. 
-They will not look at the question. They will go back to the subject of Whyalla and say: 'Let us prop it up more. Let us increase the subsidy from 35 per cent to 55 per cent and, if necessary, to 75 per cent'. There are some with knowledge of company operations who say that before long it would have to be 100 per cent. Is this what honourable senators opposite want to do? Do they want to take the situation to the ultimate? In the end, Australia would need to introduce import restrictions because it would not have the trading base from which to operate. People would not be able to travel from this country. If they did, they would be able to take only, say, $200 out of the country. This is where Labor is heading with its policies. The Opposition is dealing simply with a shop window economy. Its attitude is: Grab it off the shelf and forget all of the economics and the industrial management and industrial relations that are behind putting that product on the shelf. 
-Honourable senators opposite may take that view if they like,  Mr Deputy President.  But I invite them to look at my record of voting in divisions; they can make up their minds on that matter. As  Senator Button  said recently, this Budget is highly ideological. Of course it is highly ideological. Until 1972, Australia may have well been bored with the Liberal years of government, but at least they were stable. A general acceptable increase in the living standards of this country occurred. Since 1972, we have sharply gone through ideological change. The Labor years were indeed sharp and expensive. Now we have a Government which has to grapple with the economic expansion which has produced the rate of inflation that we have and so downgraded our ability to maintain our living standards for the future. 
Unless there can be co-operation from the Labor Party in the form of the leadership that one would hope it can give its parent- that is, the industrial movement- and unless co-operation with business can be achieved, there will be a continuing diminution of Australian living standards. There is no argument about that simple fact. If wages in Australia are to continue to rise at a greater rate than wages increase in the other countries of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, with the exception of Belgium an the Netherlands, we indeed face a very bleak future as our standard of living is so actively based in the long term on our ability to export. 
If  Senator McLaren  wishes to incite industrial disruption in Australia, he will do so. He will continue to say to unionists that they are not being paid what they are worth and that the arbitration system is something which they should ignore. That is what he is doing now. 
-That is what  Senator McLaren  is doing now. There is no difference in the approach of Labor from the Cameron years with its philosophy: 'Go for your life and get what you can out of the system by force'. Until the Labor Party can come to some arrangement with its conscience about what it is doing to the people whom it supposedly represents, we will have added difficulties in the economic scene. As I have said, there will be a diminution of our living standards, whether it is argued about here late at night or in some other place, and nothing will alter that fact. We will have a poverty of capital, a low volume market and a hopelessly outdated industrial base. A great deal in the future will rest with Labor in Opposition for a responsible reaction to the challenge, as much as it will the Government. In any case, I am pleased to have had the wages policy read here today on behalf of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  I believe that general support of its intentions by the Labor Party could bring about a revitalisation of our community and a pause in our rate of inflation so that we can catch up again in a race that I am afraid we are all too good at winning. 
Of course I allow  Senator Brown  to have his own views about my personal behaviour or political behaviour, but I must correct his view on how I voted on the legislation to which he referred. On both occasions on which it was presented while I was in the Senate I voted for it. 
It has been reasonably illuminating today to be a casual observer and to see the other side wallowing in the divisions in the trade union movement. Two extreme points of view have been put to the Senate today by people such as  Senator O  'Byrne, who has just sat down, and by  Senator Harradine.  The debate has had its more hilarious moments, such as during the rather conversational address by  Senator Cavanagh  who referred to  Senator Mr Justice  Feathers. I do not know whether that was intentional. But, setting aside the lighter moments, it has been very sobering to listen to the airing of the troubles of the union movement. Society must look at the results. Society cannot be too concerned at the internal strife of unionism in Australia. It does not have the time to do so. Of course, time is of the utmost importance to those results, but the results are evident to all who care to study them. 
Yesterday invited guests arrived at the Whyalla shipyard to see the launching of a ship. u The Federal Government currently is considering whether the subsidy per worker at that shipyard should be raised from about $8,000 a year to more than $13,000 a year. But what happened? The launching did not take place. The launching was picketed by members of the Plumbers and Gasfitters Employees Union. So Whyalla said to the rest .of Australia: 'We want you to subsidise us by a huge new sum per person, but because we have some inter-union strife we will not let you launch the ship today'. There we have a practical manifestation of the quite vocal row which took place here this afternoon. 
-Senator McLaren now raises the class warfare which is promoted by unionism in Australia. The Premier of South Australia has made an odd reference at times in the House of Assembly to the effect that those people who are not members of unions are scabs and that one must have a licence to work in Australia, this so-called free country. 

 -As Senator McLaren would know, that licence is gained by skill, expertise and long years of training. If one wants to work in the trades in Australia, basically one must have a licence to work. The Premier of a so-called free State in Australia says in the Assembly of that State that if a person does not have a licence to work, if he does not join the appropriate union, he is a scab. 
-Senator McLaren agrees. So we see the divisions. How many Australians do honourable senators opposite represent with those views? How many Australians will identify tonight with the view that a person shall have a licence to work in this socalled free country? 
We in Australia know about the manifestations of union power and how ruthless that can be as one union vies with another and as one official vies with another to seize power. No doubt outside Newcastle tonight, as on every other night of the year, there are hundreds of thousands of tons of shipping which cannot move through the port because of union decree. In recent years Newcastle has been dogged by the refusal of the union management of that port to allow a private coal loader to go into the port to increase dramatically the throughput of trade at that port. As  Senator McLaren  knows, this is a matter of inter-union rivalry. The general attitude expressed by so many honourable senators opposite today has been like that of the elephant which, as it danced among the chickens, said: The devil take the hindmost'. It is an expression of power, and the workers of Australia in the main are the innocent victims of that expression of power. It is something to be deplored. 
Honourable senators opposite have spoken at length today about industrial democracy. I must say that I somewhat relished the view because it has surfaced for the public to see all the divisions within the Labor movement, how inward looking it is and how it disregards the wellbeing of Australians. I must say that today  Senator Harradine  absolutely flayed members of the Opposition. I think that all he did not do today was tan their hides. During the major part of his speech there was not one vocal senator opposite, so well did he refute any argument that honourable senators opposite could raise. We who are outside the union movement must look at the results. We, as a legislature, as a parliament and as parties, can offer the opportunity for the union movement to regulate fairly and to react democratically in the election of its officers. We can encourage the many organisations that exist within the industrial movement to respond and to act responsibly. But no one can force them to act responsibly, and many of them are not acting responsibly. That is the result of which people outside the union movement must take account. Let us look at a business, a bank, a manufacturing company or some large trading concern. Who outside that concern can dissect all the internal operations of that organisation? We cannotthe public cannot- do that as regards the union movement. The union movement needs to produce the results for its members and for Australia. In so many respects it is denying its major responsibility today. 
On 4 November the honourable member for Mackellar,  Mr Wentworth,  gave a short speech in the House of Representatives concerning the strike at the Fairfax Press in Sydney. It is a horrifying story of extortion and blackmail against that organisation. Not only are the unions directly involved with the employees of the Fairfax organisation striking but also they have been able to enlist the assistance of unions quite outside the ambit of that organisation. It is a case of industrial blackmail aimed at a private organisation which, by its published offers to its employees, has done everything that one could expect- certainly in the initial offer it made- for them. Yet we have an organised campaign against the Fairfax Press by the Printing and Kindred Industries Union, the Transport Workers Union of Australia, the Australasian Society of Engineers, the Union of Painters and Plumbers, the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union, the Federated Ironworkers Association of Australia and the Building Workers Industrial 
Union of Australia. Those unions have the assistance of the people who work for Australia Post in freezing the mail for the Fairfax organisation. 
What are honourable senators opposite going to do? What are the organisations for which they speak going to do about this situation? Do honourable senators opposite support that strike? Do they support that amalgam of unions joining together against the Fairfax Press? Do they or do they not? Should they not answer to the public of Australia? Should they not say whether they support the action which has resulted in a pool of ships being idle off the coast near Newcastle? Should they not say whether they support the action which prevented the launching of the ship yesterday at Whyalla? Do they or do they not support these things? 
-They would not be so stupid. They will offer vilification. Do they or do they not support those actions? As I have said, as a public we can only look at the results. As a Parliament we can offer fair procedures for union management. But honourable senators opposite bear a heavy responsibility in that area.  Senator Justin  O 'Byrne tried to put all the blame on the National Civic Council. I am no supporter of the National Civic Council. I am no supporter of the Communist Party of Australia. I am a supporter of honourable and decent unionism which goes about its business of bettering the conditions of its members. I do not support blackmail by unions acting outside of their organisations, or the political strikes which are entered into at the drop of a hat today. As I said before, honourable senators opposite bear a heavy responsibility to bring some leadership into this matter. 
Australia is pricing itself out of world markets. Union activity has been responsible so much for bringing that about. Unless we in Australia can get an overall economic assessment by both sides, right and left, of our capacity, of our political strata, we have no future in the community of trading nations. Speaking personally, I support entirely the remarks made yesterday by the New South Wales Premier when he said that there needs to be industry based unions, and very few of them, in Australia. The sooner that honourable senators opposite have the courage to support one of their own in this matter the sooner we might get some resolution of the imponderables and the impossibles which face us now. Does  Senator Brown,  who is interjecting, oppose the statement made by  Mr Wran  yesterday? What support is given today to any of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commissions in Australia and to the concept of industry based unions. 
All of the talk today in relation to this matter of union elections, which is involved with this collegiate system of voting, has revolved around the National Civic Council and its enemies in the union movement, or vice versa. God help Australia if that is the level at which we are to proceed in relation to the most powerful organisations that this country has ever seen. The facts of the matter are that at this time Australia cannot afford the disruptions which are being caused by union leaders. No one can disagree with that. We cannot afford it. We are faced with a drop in our real living standards, and not many people have contemplated what that means to a community which has become attuned to a continually rising standard of living. Not many people understand what that means. The orchard workers in the almond groves of California are paid $2.40 an hour on a contract basis, without workers compensation or holiday pay. Almond orchard workers in Australia are paid $3.40 an hour, plus workers compensation and holiday pay. One can understand from that sort of example the very great problem which Australia faces and which Australian citizens face. We have priced ourselves out of the international markets. We will not sustain ourselves in the long term by artificial tariffs or quota barriers. 
What I am saying is that rather than look individually at the increase in monetary terms of the wages of the members of our 350 unions, we should look at the economic capacity of Australia so that we understand what our trading capacity is. Honourable senators opposite should present some united view of where our union structure should go. They should not bring into this chamber the divisions in the union movement. All we have been concerned with today is the divisions in industrial labour. What sort of leadership have we got in the political wing of industrial labour? That is what speaks today. The political wing of industrial labour refuses to face the most elementary questions which its industrial parent has given it. When one of its members, a State Premier, makes a brave statement to give the initiative in taking the subject one step further, we hear not a word from those honourable senators opposite here today. 
There has been some prolonged criticism in the chamber of the collegiate system, as if the collegiate system gives the opportunity to some union members to dismantle the most democratic one vote one value system in the union movement. The South Australian branch of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union held an election for an organiser a couple of years ago. That union had 15 000-odd members on its roll who could vote. Only 157 of them voted, which represented just under 1 per cent. There is no doubt that at this moment organised small power groups can take over most of the unions in this country; and most of the union leadership represents just that. That is not to say, of course, that all union leadership is irresponsible. It would be silly of me to say so. But most certainly most union leadership is prolonged in office by a small elite power group. When one per cent of 15 000 people vote in an election one can understand how easy it is for them to maintain those positions. 
I suggest that honourable senators opposite are completely ignoring their own responsibility. Honourable senators on this side do not have the responsibility that honourable senators opposite have. As children of their industrial labour parent, they have that responsibility to show some leadership. But all they do is to come into this place as servants of the divisions represented by the multiplicity of unions in Australia. It will not do. I urge, in supporting this measure, that they go back to the one or two leaders that they have produced who can throw some light on the situation. I urge them at least to agree to look at the proposals which will lead us out of a situation which at the moment resides almost entirely with the union leadership and which is inevitably leading Australians to a lower real standard of living. I ask honourable senators opposite to consider when the vote is taken what their responsibility is and to take some positive action about it. 
I am sure that the Senate recognises the validity of the arguments that the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  put forward as reasons for the passage of this Bill. However, I am concerned that a Bill such as this which raises questions of doubt as to how widely the powers contained in it may be used in the future should be brought in as quickly as this was. I hope the Minister can indicate during his reply the significance of clauses 4 and 5 and the extent to which they may be taken by someone exercising the utmost illwill in relation to some argument in the future. Clause 4 tends to be a limiting factor in that the Minister may impose restrictions only when he is satisfied that sub-clause (1) (a) and 
(b) apply. Sub-clause (l)(b) has a wide application. It states:   the imposition of the restrictions is desirable for the purpose of protecting the national interest in relation to matters to which the Taws or executive powers of the Commonwealth relate. 
It seems to me that, it someone used this statute in the future for reasons other than those for which it is introduced tonight, he could stretch that restriction to an almost unlimited use for his own particular reasons especially as sub-clause 
precludes any legal challenge from being entered into about the operation of clause 4. 
Clause 5(1) (a), limiting production to a foreign tribunal of documents which are now in Australia, prompts me to ask a question which I think the Minister should answer. Could an Attorney-General of the Commonwealth prohibit the production of documents before the Privy Council by any Australian citizen iri pursuance of a case before that judicial body? It seems to me that this clause is limitless. There is no appeal against the restrictions in clause 4 if the Minister does not observe them. Stretching this provision to its limit, if a person of illwill wishes in the future to interfere somehow with an appeal to the Privy Council, could it not be theoretically possible that a Commonwealth Attorney-General could prevent the presentation of documents by an Australian citizen before the Privy Council? I think this is a test of how far the possibilities inherent in this Bill go. I do not say in its intent. I have seen legislation in the past produce a sting which is not known to be there when it is introduced into the Parliament. I would like to know how far the provisions of this Bill potentially go. 
I appreciate the reply that the Minister gave at the conclusion of the second reading debate. However, he has not helped to allay my fears. All he has been able to say is that it is most unlikely that the possibility I put to him would occur. Unlikely things do occur in politics. It was most unlikely that  Senator Gair  should have been the ambassador to Ireland. It is most unlikely in political terms that ex-Senator Murphy should have joined the High Court. 
I am not saying there was anything wrong with it. I am saying that it seemed unlikely in the terms of politics at that time. The unlikely does occur and from the Minister's reply I understand that he is not able to say in categoric terms that an AttorneyGeneral by himself in writing, without any consent from anyone, can prohibit an Australian citizen from putting material before the Privy Council. It may be, as the Minister has said, that all the facts are known but if the documents cannot be produced except under great penalty, surely they cannot be used. As I understand it, the AttorneyGeneral can prohibit State governments from producing evidence before the Privy Council. I understand also that it is Labor Party policy to abolish Australian appeals to the Privy Council. Is it therefore- it seems to me that it is- empowering any Attorney-General of the future to issue such order without any - 
I did not use his name in that context. I must say I am not very concerned about. Quite frankly I am not worried very much one way or another whether State governments can appeal in the future to the Privy Council. I am not very concerned about that but I am concerned to know just how far legislation we put through this Senate goes. The Minister has not refuted that proposition except to say that it is most unlikely. I assume that this legislation will be passed this evening, as it must be, because the other House is not sitting. The amendment moved by  Senator James  McClelland, which I think is a good amendment, cannot be passed by rational people here tonight because the other House is not sitting to receive it. However, we are told that the Bill is required urgently. It is one more example of the futility of this place sitting when the other place is not sitting. It is an absolutely futile body. It is a rubber stamp when it sits out of phase with the other House. This proves it. I want to know what I am helping to pass. I believe that I may be helping someone in the future if that person so desired to take that action. Honourable senators may say that it is most unlikely, that it may contravene the provisions of clause 4. But it also seems to me that what is in the national interest would keep lawyers going from now to the end of this century. There can be no satisfactory argument about what that is. Of course, it  is  not to be challenged under clause 4 (2). I assume that the meaning is as wide as Australia. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is he aware of at least one report this morning that the Prices Justification Tribunal has approved of an immediate increase in the price of cars imported before last Sunday's devaluation? Is this report correct? If it is, what action will the Government take to prevent such an unjustified windfall becoming available to importers as a result of the recent change in Government policy? 
I have listened intently to a debate which at times has been confusing, sometimes interesting, and always revolving around the very serious background of the reasons for raising the issue. I do appreciate, as I am sure those who have been involved in the argument appreciate, the statement by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  that he will bring forward tomorrow the matters of fact. Perhaps that information will permit this matter to be considered in a calmer manner. I am confounded beyond measure to find that a speech has been read tonight on behalf of another person whom it is claimed has never made it. I must say that I rind that a most peculiar thing. I believe that it ought to be settled by further inquiry. 
I am not in a position to judge, but I must say that, from the claims that have been made tonight- I believe that they were very earnestly and quite properly made- I believe that the speech that was read was not made. But I would like to see some further proof produced to settle the argument on this issue. If that belief is correct, I find it preposterous that I should sit here and hear an honourable senator read a speech which was prepared in another man's name and which was never made. I find that quite preposterous. I believe that those who make the claim that the speech was not made should bring up the matter and that it should be taken from there. It seems to me to be quite a misuse of the Senate's time for a speech like that to be read if in fact it was not his speech. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at  12.01  a.m. (Thursday) 
I want to refer only briefly to my short and not very effective intervention in the debate late last night. I rise, firstly, to tender an apology to  Senator Walters  because I may have implied that what she was doing was improper. I do not comment on the wisdom of what she did. That is her responsibility. I confine myself in these remarks to the fact that when  Senator Walters  asked for the incorporation in  Hansard  of  Mr Uren's  speech I rose to inquire as to its source and authenticity. Whether it was a matter of Standing Orders or the confusion at the time,  Mr President,  you prevented me from proceeding with that inquiry. Being unable to establish the authenticity of the speech, I joined the group which refused leave for its incorporation. I had no idea that the speech had been circulated by the Government document service. Had I known that, of course, I would not have intervened. I proceeded throughout my few remarks on the basis that it was something else procured by the honourable senator. I tender an apology to  Senator Walters  if I implied that she may have done something improper. I again say that the wisdom of what she did is her responsibility. 
This clause has evoked a great deal of public interest I am sure that all members of this chamber have received a great deal of representation on it I want to say, but briefly, that I am not expressing the concern which I feel about this clause because of any pre-determined belief in the efficiency or otherwise of the particular body referred to- the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. I am expressing it because of the general behaviour of the States in relation to responsibilities which have some connection with federal jurisdiction. I believe that it is true that the States or the representatives of the States generally are very often too close to the people to make the hardest and most difficult decisions. 
This has concerned me in relation to the implications of this clause. 
I know that the situation is complicated in the sense that the Legislative Assembly is only now beginning to come of age, as is evidenced by the debates and the contributions from this side of the chamber, including those of  Senator Kilgariff.  My concern is that if the Legislative Assembly in the Northern Territory adopts the standards generally of State governments throughout Australia it may not fulfil its obligations. That being so, I could support this clause only on the basis of formation of the committee of oversight to survey the scene and the attention that the Assembly gives to its responsibilities, which are of course those of the Federal Parliament. It is a delegated responsibility, although I realise that it is only partly delegated in that the Federal Parliament has the ability to disallow those positive moves which the Legislative Assembly makes. 
The matters which concern those of us who are concerned with or about this clause are matters of inaction on the part of the Legislative Assembly. I could in no way support this clause except for the establishment of the oversight committee. I only wanted briefly to say that. That has been my experience and observation up to even as late as this week when, I think, the Queensland Government has been obdurate and uncooperative with a Federal Minister in regard to a matter concerning the advancement of Aboriginal affairs. There is plenty of evidence of the fact that those who are closest to the scene are more likely to operate from a position of self interest. This is a dangerous condition when, of course, the responsibility constitutionally is entirely that of the Federal Government. In this instance it is very much so because of the present status of the Territory with which we are dealing. Having said that, I support the clause on the basis that I have the fullest of confidence in the Parliament being able to put together an oversight committee which will report here after an active survey of the Assembly's activity in this area. 
The Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  would appreciate that there has been little time to study the detail of the Crimes (Biological Weapons) Bill. In fact, there has been hardly any time at all. Could the Minister tell me whether there is any regulatory means by which any international inspections or acknowledgements are made of what other countries may be doing in this regard? Of course, what is contained in this Bill represents a most desirable objective and will bind those nations of good faith. It will bind those nations which have no intention to embark upon biological warfare. But those nations which may have some design on the territory or safety of other nations and which would conduct surprise attacks may very well not feel that they should adhere to the treaty they have signed. Certainly, the history of world treaties is one of the very many broken treaties. Can the Minister tell us whether there will be some international policing of the observance of this treaty by the signatories? 
I support the statements of the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  and  Senator Young.  The possession of great power attracts the need to exercise it responsibly and it does not seem to me to be responsibly exercising the power of the Senate, which is great, to refuse to discuss the program that the Executive wants to put to the Parliament, which is what the opposition to the suspension of standing order 242 amounts to. It is not a debate on the merits of the case; it is a refusal to want to discuss this issue properly and responsibly now. As someone once said, if you cannot stand the heat, get out of the kitchen. It seems to me that those honourable senators who are opposing the immediate discussion of this proposition do not want to make a decision. 
What is all this talk about running back to the people? I thought we all had been through the democratic processes of winning whatever support we needed to get here. We have been put here by the people. The people expect us to make decisions. 
I say to  Senator Wright  that we do not run this country by a series of weekly referenda. We run it by taking decisions, however hard they may be, in the Senate. I suggest that we get on with our consideration of the Government's motion, whatever our thoughts may be, by voting responsibly and quickly on the matters that the Executive quite properly wants both Houses of Parliament to consider. 

 - Mr President, I can claim a certain amount of impartiality about this matter as I campaigned vigorously for it in 1974 and I am happy to campaign for it again in 1977. It is somewhat ironic that, in doing that, I support, therefore, Labor Party measures and Liberal Party measures. However I do believe that those who oppose this matter- and I may say that I respect their views and the rather magnificent way in which many of those views were put to the Senate- are looking back. Their vision is back to the founding fathers of 1900 and to the vision of empire, whereas we must look forward to a  rather  solitary existence of Australia between the Pacific Ocean and the Indian Ocean. 
We will need a strong executive government, in view of the tests and trials that are ahead. 
It would seem to me that those who have expressed their opposition to this measure have raised in every case the bogy of executive government and the suggestion that somehow it will get out of control in the meagre 3 years that is allowed between elections in Australia. They want to be able to bring the executive government to heel; to humble the executive government. I will not be a party to the opposing of legislation which I believe will strengthen the executive government. We need in this country a strength which we cannot get from a 3-year term, which is all too short. I believe that legislation which is designed to make 3-year elections actually what they were meant to be and which will give the executive government time to plan and to show some strength is to be supported in this chamber. 
-Senator Jessop said rather satirically that perhaps the Constitution should be altered to provide for a 4-year term. I personally say- I would advocate this anywhere- that we should have a 4-year term of government in Australia. But that is beyond the bounds of any reasonable approach, given the rather shortsighted way that referenda are considered in this country. I believe that the priorities are that we must strengthen executive government, that we should not believe that because a government may be strong it should be brought to heel, and that we must not forget that any government which wins office has to do so in a very widespread and heated contest across Australia. I do not think that we should reduce its power or continue to have the view that the Senate can be a slaughter house where the lower House is brought to its knees and slaughtered. I support the legislation. 
The main inconsistencies rest in  Senator Rae's  arguments. He has said and reiterated a number of times during his speech that one of the greatest evils is that this House may be a reflection of the public opinion exhibited in the lower House. Yet within 18 months he voted twice for double dissolutions which, of course, are the extreme example of getting the same thought in this House as in the lower House. The honourable senator's practical vote in this House is just the opposite of the argument he has just now put to the Senate. Nothing will give a better result of the Senate being a rubber stamp of the lower House than a double dissolution. The honourable senator has avidly supported that concept. I go not into the merits of doing so; at the moment I just say that he has. He has ensured on 2 occasions that this House is a rubber stamp of the lower House, and that was the exact result of the elections. 
Yes, I withdraw that. I do not exaggerate on such things. A further point is that the amendment would give the Senate the right without any penalty to do what it liked for 18 months. Add to that the thought which has been uppermost in the minds of those who are promoting the argument. 
I am told by my legal adviser that that is the case. 
We will rest on that. The thought uppermost in the minds of those who are supporting the amendments in opposition to these referenda is that all the base political motives exist in the lower House and all the noble motives exist here. That may be a view of ourselves at this moment. I will not argue with that point. It is quite easy to visualise a future Senate being composed of people who will deliberately interrupt the good government of Australia. No one can say that cannot happen. 
I am not going into the past nor will I comment on present individuals. We know that in future at some important occasion in this nation's life that will happen. Apparently we will deny by this amendment and our general attitude the right of a leader of an executive government to get the Senate to face the people on the issue on which it is obstructive. Why should not an executive government ask for an endorsement of its policies? If it is wrong, the Senate will be proved right by the vote. The only thing that I can see that will satisfy the opponents of this sensible measure is lifetime appointment to the Senate, and that I would oppose. That is the tenor of what they want. They say that the Senate is right and always will be right and that executive government is the enemy of Australia. That is about the only major aspect of the argument they are putting. I contend that is the opposite of the case.  Senator Rae  twice voted for a procedure which makes this House a rubber stamp. Yet he argues that it is the worst vice of the referendum. I believe his argument fails on that point. 
I do not want to lengthen the debate; I want only to say a few words. It would seem to me that  Senator Wright  is under some misapprehension as to just what I said earlier. To make my position clear to him I say that in general terms I would view his position on this and his advocacy of the supremacy of the Senate in the form in which he wants it, as such that his priorities are ordered. The number one priority for him is the retention of the present powers of the Senate; and the number 2 priority is what is good for the public and for the good of government in Australia. I have seen this position held adamantly by other people in another upper house in another place. It is something that is ingrained after a number of years in some people and is honourably held. But I believe it is a very mistaken view. It is one which greatly harms the evolution of a parliamentary system to suit the population which itself changes over the decades. But I say to  Senator Wright  that that is as I view his position, shorn of details:  His  number one priority is the Senate; his number 2 is the people of Australia. 
I offer my congratulations to  Senator Lewis  for his most competent maiden speech in this House in supporting the Address-in-Reply to the Speech of  Her  Majesty the Queen. I have no doubt that he enjoyed the experience, especially as  Her  Majesty opened the session last week. It was indeed a timely visit by the Monarch and one which was welcomed by most Australians regardless of their feelings on whether Australia should be a monarchy or a republic. The visit is indeed an example of  Her  Majesty's devotion to her task. While I have no doubt she enjoys the task it also involves great dedication in hours and study. I believe many people enjoyed the visit and being able to attend the session as it was opened by  Her  Majesty. 
As to the subject of a republic, I am somewhat amused in the sense that I think recent events have removed the urgency for consideration as to whether there ought to be some other form of government for Australia. In fact, the real power is exercised through the Governor-General. This was recently demonstrated by the dismissal of a government. The Monarch does not in practice have the power of her Governor-General in Australia who is politically appointed. That fact, so recently proven, tends to diffuse or at least to weaken the immediacy of the argument as to whether we ought to be separate from the monarchy. I believe that at some future time we will be separate. However, it is not a subject which demands urgent debate at this time. 
In passing, I should like to say how important I believe the passage of the referenda will be to the Australian parliamentary situation. I hope that those who oppose the passage of the referenda will realise that change takes place, whether or not we know that by our actions at the time we ourselves sometimes force it. In referring to the monarchy, it is interesting to note that the strains put on the position of Governor-General by the matters that led up to the dismissal of the Government in 1975 have so made that office one which can be put under great political pressure as to make it completely untenable in the future for a member of the Royal family. I believe therefore that in a practical sense one of the results of the necessity of the Governor-General to act was to preclude that possibility in the future, and so change has been forced on the Australian system by the action of this Parliament at that time. A change has occurred because of the vote of people in this House who now refuse change or refuse to acknowledge its need by referenda. I hope those people realise that change happens in any case and that we cannot stand immobile against the necessity to change our Constitution to meet the modern needs of government. If we cannot pass what has been approved by both sides of politics, by the major part of the 2 political parties in Australia, we are not likely in this century to have a sensible change of the Australian Constitution by referenda. I hope that the public of Australia is not led to believe that the Senate is more important in the possession of its own security against any interference from the lower House than the efficient working of government for the whole of this country. 
I thought that  Senator Button's  address was an astute one because, on the basis of what was not true, he built a case with which to belabour the Liberal attitude, especially to unemployment. He said quite blithely, in effect, that the Liberal and National Country Parties believe that the unemployment figures in Australia are a myth. He went on to imply, as any listener would believe, that somehow we are going to penalise those people who have voluntarily left their jobs and are now on unemployment benefit, and that in general we are attacking the unemployed. The opposite is the case, as the recent application of indexation to unemployment benefit will prove.  Senator Button  illustrated how difficult it is in Australia to have any sensible examination of the unemployment question. Of course, it has always been treated cynically by Oppositions of whatever colour, and I believe that in office Labor was accepting criticism which it may have ameliorated if it had been game enough to examine and dissect the unemployment figures. It accepted criticism which it need not have accepted. 
It is now time to examine the figures and to get some expert knowledge of what constitutes that great bulk of people, who they are, what their difficulties are, and how they can be helped. But to imply as the basis of a speech- quite a knowledgeable speech in its delivery later on- the heartless attitude of this Government and to say that it is reducing the help available to the unemployed, that somehow it is attacking those in this community who are unfortunate enough not to be able to get jobs, is completely wrong and false.  Senator Button,  if he studies the practical things that have happened, must admit that that is the case. He cannot point and did not point to victimisation. He pointed simply to expressions of opinion which have surrounded the general examination ofthe situation. For my part, I reject entirely any agreement at all to penalise in any way those who have voluntarily left their jobs. 
-May I say to  Senator Button  that if he thinks he can penalise politically this Party by openly discussing the situation and its problems, he is wrong in his assumption that he will benefit. If I may say so, I do not like the word 'dole' and I certainly do not like the words 'dole bludger' if they are loosely applied. I would much sooner use the phrase 'security payment' in preference to something which in any way tends to denigrate those who are genuinely unemployed. 
I wish to mention several things briefly, and one of them is the importance of the motor car industry in Australia, especially its importance to South Australia. Before I utter any word of criticism of my own Government's policy, I want to say that I associate myself with that very long list of achievements which stand very much to the credit of this Government, especially in the light of its short term in office so far. The list of accomplishments from personal tax indexation to family payments to Aboriginal land rights, referred to in the excellent speech that  Senator Baume  gave to the Senate, stands as a tremendous record accumulated in a very short time in office. However, I do want to say that I cannot conceive of the reasons why we are about the business of supporting 5 major vehicle manufacturers in Australia. It has been acknowledged by those in the industry that the Australian market is not large enough to support 3 major manufacturers in Australia, and  Sir Brian  Inglis, who heads the Ford organisation in this country, is on record in an interview in the  Australian  some weeks ago as saying that 67 per cent ofthe motor vehicle market which Australian manufacturers have today is not sufficient to support the Australian car industry into the future. That estimation was given before the two new additions to the industry, the 2 Japanese firms, have been launched on our market to divide it further among the local manufacturers. I cannot see, and the people I talk to cannot see, the reason we deliberately set out to encourage a division from 3 parts into 5 parts in a market which by international standards would be flat out supporting only one manufacturer. 
In effect, we in Australia are about the business of making some of the most expensive motor cars in the world. We are about the business of dramatically increasing their prices by diluting the market available to each manufacturer. It is a very sobering thought, when one considers how dependent Australians are on their personal transport and how dependent we are on trade with other countries, that we are about the business of forcing our people to buy some of the most expensive cars in the world and to cut off trade of a very great nature with other countries. That is not to consider, of course, the matter of the almost automatic degeneration of engineering expertise which will occur if we shut off foreign imports. I suppose it is too late at this stage, when companies are investing millions of dollars in new capital equipment and making contractural arrangements which go with future sales, but I say to the Minister that no one in industry to whom I have spoken can see the reasons we so deliberately dilute an already extremely small market. 
This problem has very great ramifications for South Australia. South Australia has played a very large part in the manufacture of motor vehicles in Australia. As a general estimate, 40 per cent of General Motors-Holden Ltd manufacture occurs in that State. Chrysler Australia Ltd, of course, is almost solely based in South Australia. We have other contracting firms which do a valuable multi-million dollar business in supplying components to other car manufacturers or assemblers. It seems to me that by developing first of all two Japanese manufacturers outside South Australia- taking the selfish parochial view- obviously my State's percentage involvement in the motor car manufacturing industry in Australia will decline. But more than that, I am concerned about the viability of the firms which will be left in it and will be in it until some adjustments are made by market pressures in the structure of the manufacturing of motor cars. 
An article headed: 'Survival may force car makers into joint ventures' appeared in the 

 National Times of 7 March this year. It is an interesting review of a very expensive book which costs $900 a copy. The review has been assembled by  Mr Michael  Aikin and  Mr Rob  O'Connell, who are two analytical economists well-known, it is said, in the motor car industry. The report of that study states: 
Having examined some sections of this first volume I can only say it paints a disturbing and distressing picture. By now everyone knows that out motor industry is not particularly efficient, that traditionally it has made the wrong motor cars at the wrong price but has survived because of protection that has run at giddy heights, and that its future appears conjectural now that Nissan and Toyota threaten to swell manufacturing ranks to S fully fledged members. 
Another excerpt reads: 
Only a few years ago when the movement to vertical integration reached its most extreme form (and the dilution from this has not been really significant since), a typical foreign-owned multinational vehicle producer in Australia made the product in a factory it owned on land it owned, drew upon supplies from subsidiaries it owned . . . sold the product through a retail outlet it owned, and financed the sale through a hire-purchase group it owned. 
The article continues: 
The restructuring of the automotive industry which is necessary to ensure its long-term viability, 
. demands a much greater degree of redeployment of labour than is generally yet admitted- redeployment into service support and into other industries. It is dishonest to pretend otherwise. 
The review finishes with a statement that Chrysler in South Australia, in fact, could go out of motor car manufacture and become a supplier of components to others. This is something which I would not like to see and which, I am sure, Chrysler would not like to see. But if we are to firmly discourage a dilution of the market I believe it would be impossible for 5 companies to divide that market and to produce cars which Australians were able to purchase. I cannot see how Australia can shut itself off entirely from the overseas market in support of those 5 manufacturers and expect those countries overseas to buy our raw materials, which are so important to sustaining our living standard. We cannot sell wool and metal ores if we refuse to take the products of other countries. The motor vehicle industry in other countries, especially in Japan, is as politically important to those countries as our industry is politically important to us. 
I urge the government to keep a constant eye on the motor vehicle industry to see that we are not denied the necessary infusion of motor car imports to maintain some competitive engineering standard in Australian manufacturer, secondly, I ask it not to allow the development of motor car manufacturers to price the vehicles beyond the limits of the pockets of most Australians. Many people today as they buy their quite modest model of Australian made car fear that they will not be able to replace it in three or four years time with inflation running at the rate it is. In finalising these rambling remarks about the motor vehicle industry in Australia I simply must say that I believe the present policy is wrong. I do ne t know what can be done about it at this stage when the investment has been made and the contractual arrangements have been entered into. I fear for the future of the motor vehicle industry in my State. I just hope that the Government will be able to salvage something from what I believe to be a very wrong policy. 
I want to say something about a national policy on energy in Australia, or the lack of it. It seems that when the Labor Party was in office  Mr Connor  involved himself greatly in the matter of fuel and energy and its development. Yet when one became close to him and pressed him for a policy one found that he did not have one. He had some deep ideological commitment to some secret view which he would not divulge to others. Indeed, it was a failing of his that having pointed the way to some long term planning in the development of our energy resources, he did not seem able to proceed with it. However, I believe that his failure to do so and the current emphasis on and argument surrounding the marketing of uranium should not divert our attention from the need to have some long term planning in relation to the development and usage of the limited petroleum resources that we have. I was pleased to see in the weekly report of the Australian Petroleum Exploration Association Limited bulletin that the first meeting of the Australian Minerals and Energy Council has been held. A paragraph in that report, referring to that meeting, states: 
After the presentation of reports on mineral and energy matters in their respective areas, Ministers acknowledged the critical importance of energy resources and their efficient utilisation. They agreed that there was a need for the Commonwealth and States to consult on a wide range of energy matters including the preparation of estimates of Australian energy production and demand; the delineation of available resources having regard to probable end use; and the economic and energy implications of projected energy developments and the prices of alternate forms of energy; and energy research and development policy: 
The statement that these matters are critically important illustrates that we do not have a policy. For a country which is so dependent on road transport and on the availability of fuel in all its forms it seems to me to be a great lack on our future planning not to be able to say to Australian users where the fuel will be coming from in 10 years time. In fact, I was alarmed by a report in the  Financial Review  of recent days which referred to the development of the northwest shelf of Western Australia and to the possible use of gas resources there. The excerpt from this article reads as follows. 
The proportion of gas available for domestic use and export and the price is a vital part ofthe project's future. 
So far the parties have not discussed figures but are making good progress on the principles that would be involved. 
The discussions are occurring on the basis that frequent meetings have been held between company executives and Western Australian Government officials concerning both the volume and the price of gas to be sold on the local market, as well as other issues. I do not mean to say anything antagonistic about the Western Australian Government, but I believe it is totally inadequate, having regard to the future needs of Australian fuel resources, for us to be led to believe that the amount of fuel which will be available to the Australian market in the future may very well depend on the outcome of discussions between the developing companies and the Western Australian Government. To me that is surrendering the responsibility for vital planning on a national basis to State and company interests. As I said, I say that without any antagonism towards the companies, which must be able to have a considerable market to pay for development and to provide proper profits on their investment, and in recognition of the need for the Western Australian Government to be properly involved in the legislation which covers off-shore oil and which previously has been ratified by Commonwealth and State governments. But for the Austraiian Government to stand aside from this great resource that has been discovered and to allow it to be developed on the basis of those consultations, as I have said, is neglecting entirely the great future needs of national fuel resources. At some time in the future, the need to connect the Sydney market with central Australia or even the north-west shelf resources is something which everyone who thinks about the matter must consider. The fact that this is an isolated consideration is, as I have said, a condemnation of governments in general, not this one in particular, for their lack of planning of our energy resources. 
I am suggesting a national policy having regard to our needs in the first instance, our resources in the second instance and a matching of the two together in some sensible assessment of the growth of demand and the placement of our markets. Pricing, as the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  knows, is another issue of great importance. In relation to any alteration to petroleum prices in Australia I say only in passing that if producers are to be given an increase to world parity or something near world parity the extra income they obtain should in some way be geared to extra exploration in Australia. I do not for a minute believe that producers should have a bonanza and be left on an honour system to reinvest a great deal of that finance in exploration which, of course, they may not do. I should like to see a firm arrangement in relation to such an increase. The Leader of the Opposition does not know the answers. This side of the chamber does not know the answers. At the moment we are in the formative stages of an energy policy. 
I now turn to inflation.  Senator Button  absolved the former Labor Government of 3 years of all blame for the present inflationary situation. He said that there had been a tide of" rising expectations in Australia. I point out to him that his Government and the Ministers in that Government had more to do with raising the tide of expectation in monetary terms than any other government in the history of Australia. A government which will raise budgetary expenditure by more than 40 per cent in one year will dislocate our economic system. As much as I dislike continually harping back to the actions of other governments - 
I am talking about the Government of which  Senator Keeffe  was a supporter. I repeat that any government which raises budgetary expenditure to that degree in normal times- times during the Labor Government's administration were normal, they were not times of war or of national outside emergencybecause of an ideological approach will dislocate our economy. That financial dislocation together with Ministers such as  Mr Cameron  urging the work force of Australia to go outside the arbitration system and get what it can by industrial bargaining is a combination which cannot fail to dislocate the economy. It is obvious that this country still suffers greatly from that dislocation. Whilst not all of the present problems can be put at that door, obviously a great number of them can. 
The importance of containing inflation is greater than at any other time when we have considered it. At this stage the Government's policy of containment is resting almost solely for additional impetus on containment of wages. I hope the Labor Party will play its part in realising that the share of the industrial yield or industrial profits in Australia went to wage earners at a greatly increased pace during its administration. That share cannot be maintained at a time when our exports are under great pressure because of the rising costs in Australia. We shall have to succeed in moderating wage demands or else we shall find ourselves considering a prices and incomes freeze as a last resort. I hope that we do not reach that stage with all the evils that it would bring but if we cannot succeed it will be all that is left in the context of the present economic pressures. 
I conclude my remarks by referring to federalism. I do not wish to criticise the Government but I am puzzled. I do not understand the full emphasis of the devolvement of powers to the States. I do not think that we can continue to talk of federalism lightly without being explicit. The disbursement of financial assistance to the States as an automatic share of the income tax collection and the inclusion of local governments in the allocation of funds are excellent and proper examples of what one would call a federalism policy. But to extend it further and to talk loosely of the devolution of power is, I believe, contradictory to the facts. I list several obvious items such as Queensland 's policy on the purchase of Aboriginal land and the Western Australian energy policy which I have just mentioned without criticising the Western Australian Government which is acting legitimately on this matter. It is a matter of great concern which cannot but involve us at some time in the near future. I refer to Australia's boundary in the Torres Strait and Queensland's involvement. There is the growth of the State governments' public services at a rate which is about twice the rate of growth in the Commonwealth Public Service, so upsetting the fight against inflation in Australian economic management from a central source. I refer also to Fraser Island and the discipline that this Government quite rightly imposed on the Queensland Government. There are 6 industrial State development policies which are taken to such a degree at times by the favourable purchase of the manufactures processed within the State that they provide almost a new excise around Australia. I urge the Government to be more explicit in the face of the reality that this Federal Government is finding itself in the position of disciplinarian of the States more than it is providing devolution of power. I have much pleasure in supporting the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply. 
I offer some defence for the integrity of 3 prominent and worthy South Australians whose character has been deliberately and systematically defamed in a speech by a member of the Ministry. I am sorry that this has happened and that I have to rise in this manner tonight. The people involved are  Mr Justice  Bright, of the Supreme Court of South Australia,  Mr George  Kennedy, the Surveyor-General in the South Australian Government and  Mr Norman  Douglas, the State Electoral Officer. Those 3 people comprise the State Electoral Districts Boundaries Commission. In a strange and yet deliberate speech the Minister for the Capital Territory,  Mr Staley,  last week utterly defamed those 3 gentlemen. He did so in a speech which he gave in the House of Representatives last Thursday. He did not make just a passing remark. Near the beginning of his speech he mentioned the situation in South Australia and said that he would return to it. He subsequently did so. I shall quote what he said to make clear to the Senate the basis of my protest in defence of these men.  Mr Staley  said: 
I have mentioned the electoral system in South Australia. Let us go back and look at the 'Donnymander' that has taken place in that State. I have put the proposition, which has been carefully worked out, that with 46 per cent of the vote the Don Dunstan Government could be returned in South Australia. What the Dunstan Government has done in South Australia illustrates the real nature of gerrymander. There is the question of the definition of the word 'gerrymander'. There are many ways that one can describe a gerrymander. But the traditional way is to explain that gerrymander is derived from the word 'salamander', Governor Gerry and all that. The original approach takes account of the fact that boundaries can be so drawn as to totally distort an electoral situation. That has nothing to do with criteria but relates to the precise way in which boundaries have been drawn. That is what has been done in South Australia. 
In quite explicit terms the Minister said that the boundaries in the recent electoral redistribution in South Australia had been precisely drawn by the Electoral Commissioners to favour the Labor Party. He went on to say: 
Boundaries had been drawn so as to bring about a result which is good for Labor, which enshrines that Party in office and which makes it extraordinarily difficult for non-Labor to defeat Labor in future elections. 
I repeat that the kernel of that statement is: 'That has nothing to do with criteria but relates to the precise way in which boundaries have been drawn.' He used the term gerrymander. It is a well known term in electoral discussions and is defined in one of the major dictionaries in the library as follows:  a method of arranging election districts so that the political party making the arrangement will be enabled to elect a greater number of representatives than they could on a fair system . . . 
The Minister, therefore, made no pretence of his attack. It was deliberate and explicit and in terms that everyone could understand. 
I took the trouble today to obtain a copy of the Constitution Act Amendment Act (No. 5) of 1975. This is the parent Bill establishing the Commission as a perpetual commission to be charged continually with the responsibility of electoral redistribution in South Australia. I quote from page 569 of the relevant statute the section which sets out the fairness of the system which has been established. Section 77(2), which appears in Part V, states:  electoral quota' means the nearest integral number obtained by dividing the total number of electors for the House of Assembly ... by the number of electoral districts into which the State is to be divided as at the first polling day for which the order is to be effective:  'permissible  tolerance' means a tolerance often per centum: 
A subsequent passage sets out the responsibilities and the constitution of the Electoral Districts Boundaries Commission. Section 78(1) (a) states: 
the  Chairman  of the Commission who shall be a Judge of the Supreme Court appointed by the Chief Justice to be  Chairman  of the Commission; 
the Electoral Commissioner or a person appointed pursuant to subsection ( 3 ) of this section; and 
the Surveyor-General or a person appointed pursuant to subsection (4) of this section. 
All 3 members of the Boundaries Commission are appointed by a provision of the State Constitution. They are not selected at random at any particular time by any particular politician or government. They have been selected as set out in the following section to be a continuous commission. That section states: 
The Commission- 
) shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common seal; . . . 
The Commission is charged with automatically ensuring that there is a redistribution at particular periods of time in the State electoral situation and the statute says:  82. (2) The Commission is required to commence proceedings for the purpose of making an electoral redistribution- 
within three months after the commencement of the Constitution Act Amendment Act ( No. 5 ), 1 975; 
as soon as practicable after the enactment of an Act that alters presently or prospectively the number of members of the House of Assembly; 
within three months after a polling day if five years or more has intervened between a previous polling day on which the last electoral redistribution made by the Commission was effective and that polling day. 
The Commission therefore is named by position in the State. It is a commission of perpetual succession and it has the duty to perform an electoral redistribution every 5 years. It has, as a matter of interest, the powers of a Royal Commission. I believe that the Minister should have thought seriously about this matter before he made his despicable statement reflecting so much against members of the Commission. Section 84 of the Act provides: 
The Royal Commission 's Act, 1917, shall, so far as its provisions are applicable, apply to and in relation to the Commission, the secretary to the Commission, the members of the Commission and the proceedings of or conducted before the Commission. . . 
That section goes on to outline some further conditions, but the Commission has the power and authority of a royal commission. Had the Minister for the Capital Territory made his statement outside the privilege of Parliament I believe he would be held in contempt of the Commission and would be called before it to explain his actions and words. 
It is interesting to note that when this Bill passed the South Australian Parliament it represented the culmination of many years of argument about the electoral distribution in my State. It is interesting to note that in this Bill electoral distribution reached the apex of fairness of any distribution in the Commonwealth and the Bill passed both Houses of the State Parliament without a call for a division. On that basis one can expect this Act to be well and widely supported in the South Australian community. In fact it has been entrenched in the Constitution and cannot be altered in any matter of substance except by a referendum of the people to approve that alteration. It sets out a number of criteria and these are the only factors which are binding on the Commission when it makes its distribution according to the equality of votes with a 10 per cent tolerance. The criteria are these: 
) the desirability of making the electoral redistribution in such a manner that there will exist, as far as reasonably possible, amongst the population of each electoral district, a community of interest (of an economic, social, regional or other kind ); 
b) the population of each proposed electoral district; 
the desirability of leaving undisturbed as far as practicable and consistent with the principles on which the redistribution is to be made, the boundaries of existing electoral districts; 
the topography of areas within which new electoral boundaries will be drawn; 
the feasibility of communication between electors affected by the redistribution and their parliamentary representatives in the House of Assembly; and (0 the nature of substantial demographic changes that the Commission considers likely to take place in proposed electoral districts between the conclusion of its present proceedings and the time when proceedings are likely to be next taken for the purpose of making a redistribution, and may have regard to any other matters that it thinks relevant. 
Those criteria are the only criteria which govern the deliberations of 3 honest men and they have produced a redistribution on that basis. The Minister has charged them with gerrymandering the boundaries in South Australia. In case I am wrong let me again quote his words. He said: 
That has nothing to do with criteria but relates to the precise way in which boundaries have been drawn. This is what has been done in South Australia. 
I repeat, that is a despicable charge and one which I refute. I, like every other South Australian, hold these 3 gentlemen who are members of the commission in the highest regard. They are honourable, hard working South Australian citizens. They would turn their back on every and any dishonest practice which would be suggested of them. They have drawn boundaries which are eminently fair according to everyone 's ability to have an equal say in his or her government. For their pains the Minister in his gratuitous remarks in the House has, I believe, offensively and dramatically offended and impugned their honour. I resent that. I telephoned the office of the Minister this afternoon to tell him so. He was not there. I passed that message on for when he arrives later this evening. I suggest that he should apologise. I could suggest that he do other things. This is not a ministerial standard. It is not what one would expect of any Minister of the Crown of any Party. 
It is the back alley of politics for a Minister of the Crown to assault the honour of a judge, a surveyor general and a state electoral officer. It is beyond the dignity of Parliament to listen to that sort of offence. I can understand that the constrictions of the debate may have prevented the Minister from using examples from his own side of politics, such as Queensland, which would have given an example of improper electoral boundary drawing. But to use South Australia which has produced the fairest system that Australia has seen and which is only one short step better than the admirable legislation which was put through recently in this Parliament, to hold up the best as the worst in Australia, as the Minister has done, is great disservice, especially to himself. It is by this sort of remark that the Minister will be known. He stands unworthy of his position by that assault on these people. Without using wilder language or calling for other things, I call on the Minister to apologise unreservedly to those South Australian citizens whom I have mentioned in this protest. 
There is little more one can offer. I mentioned some of the detail of the Bill this evening to assure the Senate that, in the Electoral Distribution Bill which appointed the commissioners, there is little which prevents them from giving the fairest results. No direction is given by Parliament in South Australia which would direct them to given any biased or unfair result. There is no result which is well published and which is the subject now of Court challenge which can prove one tittle of the Minister's charges against these people. I would like to see the Minister rise in the House of Representatives as soon as he possibly can to offer his personal apologies for the fact that he has so insulted these people. In this long search for equality in voting rights in Australia we have reached an advanced stage with the admirable situation in the Federal scheme- we have just passed what I believe is a magnificent redistribution proposal- and we have reached that state in South Australia. Yet we should look beyond at several other States which need to come up to this standard. But if in the midst of this program we are to have a Minister set the matter back by saying that the best is the worst, we will prolong the day when all Australians will have an equal chance of say in their government. I say again that I rose in protest. I resist the back alley politics into which the Minister for the Capital Territory has entered. I ask that he apologise to the men whose character he has so impugned. 
I believe the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  is to be congratulated for his idealism which I know he holds very dearly in relation to this matter of increasing the efficiency of inter-governmental relations in Australia. But while I share his idealism I do not share his optimism. While I wholeheartedly support his attempts, because attempts have to be made to have our system work more efficiently than it is working now, I think we would be in a state of euphoria with our heads in the clouds if we thought some easy way of consultation could be arranged whereby over a few years the very basic differences in the political operations of the States and the Commonwealth could be reconciled and we would have a scene set whereby the States would approach each difficult question in relation to the Commonwealth in a state of cooperation. In fact, as we know, the States often approach the matter in a state of buccaneering enterprise. The States, for their own political purposes, blame their Commonwealth colleagues, if necessary, for their own deficiencies or inability to obtain sufficient money for their own projects. 
I am sure optimism has to be tempered with a practical approach. It is a tremendously difficult job. We have plenty of examples at the present moment such as the ability of State governments in South Australia, for instance; of the Dunstan Government from time to time blaming completely the Commonwealth Government for its own deficiencies. We have a situation in Queensland today involving the difficulties of the transfer of land for Aboriginal purposes approved by the State Government. That is a specific instance where very great difficulties will arise in the future. One must realise, I think, that State politicians and State Premiers see their responsibilities ending at their State borders. 
This is a well known fact which all honourable senators know in their hearts. Therefore, I say in passing that I support the Minister in his move. I wish htm all success, but I think we should not predicate future operations and our outlook on federalism on the basis that we can achieve the great national voice which we need in the Federal Parliament by talking sweetly to a number of State governments which, from day to day, repudiate the very co-operation which we seek. On that basis I certainly offer my support to the Minister. As I say, I hope his optimism is well founded. I very much doubt it in the short term. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Carrick)  adjourned. 
The further this debate proceeds the more the real motives of the Opposition in moving the substance of this debate are revealed.  Senator McLaren  has followed the usual path of so many of his colleagues, wherever they are in Australia, that is, to attack success- to point out any industry that makes a profit however small or large, and to criticise it for making that profit. Never so they concern themselves with companies which are failing, but always attacking success. It annoys them to see anyone making a profit. Today we have heard  Senator Gietzelt  and  Senator Cavanagh  extolling the virtue of one of the most disruptive forces in the industrial work force in Australia, namely  Mr Gnetenko  from South Australia. We have heard him being defended here today by a South Australian senator.  Mr Gnetenko  has done more to depress industrial success in my State, which I share with  Senator Cavanagh,  than any individual I know. Yet he has been extolled here today. 
I am not concerned with what the court did to him; I am concerned with what he did to the industry of my State. As I said, we have heard this tirade. I thought  Senator Lewis  tonight put the situation in real perspective. He mentioned possibly one of the most important points of all in this debate, that is, that the Labor Party is willing to use recklessly and to its detriment the work force of General MotorsHolden's Pty Ltd for its own political end here and across the nation. Those people are faced with a very hard choice- a choice not as to whether they will accept a loss of income but as to whether they will take a week's leave with the co-operation of the company to let that company rid itself of excess stock. Tonight this is held up as being the act of a villainous group of industrialists who are preying on their workers in South Australia, Victoria and in other places where General Motors operate. This is not so. Other countries have amply demonstrated the co-operation that can avoid the necessity of loss of income or loss of at least weekly support by companies co-operating with their workers for shorter working weeks or, in fact a better idea in this case, by taking leave. I think it is despicable for honourable senators opposite to use for their own ends the hardship that is confronting those people and to take simply and anti-multinational and anti-profit line in the hope that somehow they will nibble away the popularity of this Government. 
No doubt there are many hard choices besides those which are immediately facing the company and its workers. The management will have to make a great number of decisions in the future about what it will do, as will all motor manufacturers in Australia. It is a time of very great change indeed. Until now we have had 3 major motor manufacturers in this country. There will be five. Of course, the new policy has not yet been implemented. It is about to be implemented in the next several years. The sort of decision which GM-H must make now regarding excess production will inevitably have to be made by the other firms in the future as 5 firms become entrenched as fully fledged manufacturers in the limited market, although it may be a captive market, that Australia presents. 
Beyond that is the fact that the world, particularly Australia, is turning to the small motor car. This move will be accentuated by the emphasis, that will become more pronounced as each year goes by, on the necessity to conserve essential and ever scarcer petroleum reserves. We therefore have launched into the development of the smaller motor car. Much of this development has come from overseas; far more than that development which stands behind the Falcon, the Valiant and the Holden. Overseas development has been centred upon small cars and that very centering means it is off balance with the 3 traditional big manufacturers in Australia. Each of those manufacturers have gone overseas for their own particular models or part of their models to meet the demand for small cars. This does mean that those 2 new Japanese entries into manufacture in this country are probably better placed to make small cars, with the development basis that they have overseas, than those manufacturers which exist here. We need not think that we are looking today at this problem, which is so inexpertly and ineffectively brought up by the Opposition, as a 'oncer' proposition. In the future - 
I do not wish to speak for very long. I raised this subject tonight and quoted the figures 
I have quoted for the specific purpose not of winning any vote, which I know would be impossible here in the circumstances, but to give notice to the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  and the Government that this matter is not going to rest easy in the future. The history is bad for my State. As I have said, the comparison is invidious. Frankly, I do not blame the Minister. 
Debate interrupted. 
-This is a bad Bill and I oppose it. I oppose it because it continues a policy by design or by neglect which disadvantages South Australia and ignores the recommendations of the Bureau of Roads which ought to be the basis of Federal Government allocations to the States. It is interesting that the Bill is brought in and explained in a short second reading speech by the Minister in another place and the Minister here which does nothing to justify the allocation of $3. 2m to Western Australia compared with the position of the other States of this nation. It again treats the Western Australian situation in isolation in a most political manner. The long term bias against South Australia is one which I will outline directly. The Bill adds to the existing road grants for the year 1977-78 in this way: To create totals, as outlined in the speech by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  - 
1976- 77. 
Yes, I am sorry. The allocations for 1 976-77 perpetuate a percentage disadvantage against my State. This disadvantage has been maintained ever since I became involved in this question in1968-69. In fact the funds that are proposed for1977-78 also perpetuate this percentage difference. As announced in a ministerial release in March this year the 1977- 78 figures are $40.4m for South Australia and $60.20m for Western Australia. This will perpetuate, as I have said, next year the percentage which I complain about now; it will keep South Australia's allocation at about 66 per cent of the road grant to Western Australia. It is interesting that this percentage of the Western Australian grant should be maintained not only in disregard of the recommendations of the Bureau of Roads but in disregard of many other statistical factors which the Government used in some way as a comparison of economic and population standards which the 2 States enjoy. For instance, the latest statistics on the number of motor vehicles per 1000 people is 499 in South Australia and 508 in Western Australia. The population of South Australia is 1.234 million; in Western Australia the population is 1.122 million. South Australia is 69 per cent urbanised; Western Australia is 62 per cent urbanised. In South Australia there are 15.3 per cent residents rural; there are 18.2 per cent residents rural in Western Australia. It is interesting to know also that South Australia collected in the year 1974-75 $26.3m from motor vehicle registration and tax and Western Australia collected $26. 7m. The total motor vehicle taxation for the 2 States was $43. 58m for South Australia and $41.226m for Western Australia. That is more or less an aside to show that there are many factors that equalise the States in their economic and population statistics. 
I start my complaint tonight, which is related to this Bill, from the road allocations that were made in 1969. I have here copies of the newspaper reports in my State on the increases which were then granted by the Gorton Government to the various States in the new allocations that were made over a 5-year period. In 1969 South Australia received another $43 m. It was expressed in a form to indicate that South Australia's actual allocation would rise to $ 129m. The report states that Victoria was to receive $254m- an increase- and Western Australia to receive $200.4m. If honourable senators dissect these figures they will find that a conference arranged to consider the new recommendations of the Bureau of Roads- which were quite severe- that Western Australia not attain the high percentage of Commonwealth road funds that it had been getting under the previous arrangement. The Bureau of Roads almost- not quite, but almost- put South Australia and Western Australia on an equal footing in relation to their future needs. The Prime Minister of the day,  Mr Gorton,  at that roads conference which I attended at that time, said that it would be severe, in fact too severe, to apply the new recommendations of the Bureau to the allocations that were being fixed in 1969 and he recommended that one-half of the new recommendations and one-half of the old recommendations be applied. He arrived at a figure which certainly disadvantaged South Australia in relation to Western Australia but not as much on a percentage basis as in the past. Then, using the same device which this small Bill uses, the Prime Minister said that no State should get less in the future than it had received in the past. The government of the day produced a new allocation of a sum of $70m. In any case, of the new sum which  Mr Gorton  produced to add to the already re-calculated figure, South Australia received $9m and Western Australia received $40.8m, without any justification at that conference other than that that was a fact of life. At that time we complained at that conference on behalf of South Australia that the Bureau of Roads, in a practical sense, put Western Australia and South Australia on an almost equal footing of need. Yet South Australia emerged under great protest from that meeting with 65 per cent of what Western Australia had obtained. The Prime Minister at that time,  Mr Gorton,  was challenged as to how he expected South Australia to meet its almost equal needs with those of Western Australia in future programs with 65 per cent of the amount allocated to Western Australia. He had no answer except to say: 'That is the way it is to be'. I need not say much more about that conference except to say that that is the way it was. 
South Australia emerged with almost the identical percentage of funds in relation to Western Australia that had been received in the previous arrangements. That was after what was the most expensive and, I believe, comprehensive review of the road situation in Australia ever undertaken by the Bureau of Roads. It was a most shameful disregard of expensive and expert advice which the Government had asked for and then deliberately ignored. One can say, of course, that this is in the past. Unfortunately, the same distribution of funds in relation to Western Austalia occurs today and, apparently, is to occur in the next financial year, as was announced by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  in March. It is rather interesting to find that both major parties in the Parliament have agreed to continue this most inequitable distribution. I have turned to the Bureau of Roads' records to find what it has recommended over a number of years. In 1969 the Bureau submitted a report to the Minister which stated: 
This report, entitled Australian Road Systems 1968, relates to investigations conducted by the Bureau during 1967 and 1968. The results of these investigations were used by the Bureau in the preparation of its report to you concerning Commonwealth financial assistance to the States for roads dated 20 January 1969. 
It is a fact that in 1967 and in 1968 the Bureau presented its report specifically to assist the Federal Government to allocate its road funds to the States. In that report it appeared that the Bureau was not as specific in its recommendations to government as it was in later years. It submitted a number of tables showing in most cases about 3 possibilities of model distributions based on different capital sums and benefits. On page 64 of the first report for that year the Bureau recommended or posed the possible expenditure of total road funds to be allocated to the States under 3 various conditions. In the first report they are called 'warranted road construction expenditure'. In no case in those tables does the percentage in relation to South Australia come below 91 per cent of the allocation to Western Australia. In that same report a little further on the Bureau made possible recommendations which it called 'optimum schedules'. In that regard it mentioned such figures as $264m for South Australia compared with $243m for Western Australia under a distribution by area. An amount of $264m as against $243m was mentioned under a distribution by functional class of road. The same figures were mentioned for groups of roads. That, of course, advantaged South Australia. 
In another table called 'distribution of expenditure which could be undertaken with a total increased budget to $33 82 m' the figure is still in South Australia's favour. In no case did those particular recommendations drop below a figure which for South Australia was less than 8 1 per cent of the amount for Western Australia. That report was ignored by the Gorton Government, which produced the figures I have given previously. South Australia received $129m, which was 65 per cent of Western Australia's amount of $20Om 
In 1973, the time when the new Labor Government was forming its policy on roads, the Bureau reported again. It presented a number of tables and was more specific in its report and advice to the Government. It made a number of suggestions. It presented a table called 'distribution of economically warranted expenditure'. It relates to Western Australia and South Australia and recommended the greatest difference in favour of Western Australia than in any of the reports that I can find. In that table, the Bureau recommended $503m for Western Australia and $388m for South Australia, reducing the allocation for South Australia to 77 per cent of that for Western Australia. The report then goes on to table the possible expenditure of a different capital figure. The result was $386m for South Australia compared with $4 10m for Western Australia, or 94 per cent of the allocation for Western Australia. 
After presenting those possibilities the report recommended to the Labor Government in 1973 that the amounts should be $536m for South Australia and $566m for Western Australia. The amount for South Australia represents 94 per cent of the amount for Western Australia. What did South Australia receive from the second report of the last decade? In his speech introducing the Bill on 1 8 July 1 974, the then Minister for Transport,  Mr Charles  Jones, announced that the allocation for South Australia would be $100m and for Western Australia $ 1 50m, which is the same percentage of two-thirds or 66 per cent. Those amounts represent the allocation from the Commonwealth; the other figures that I have read are for total road programs but nevertheless they give an indication of the final program. The Bureau of Roads again reported in 1975 and again provided relative road programs. I will not bore the Senate with individual figures. The report recommended quite firmly a total program of road expenditure for Western Australia and South Australia with South Australia receiving 88 per cent of the amount for Western Australia. 
It is very difficult to understand why both Liberal and Labor governments are sustaining this unfair allocation. Obviously I will be the only person tonight to vote against this Bill. I will do so to establish my feeling on it. It would appear that there is a very long held and deliberate attitude by all governments, at least since 1968-69, to disadvantage South Australia in relation to road funds allocated by the Federal Government. The evidence of this disadvantageous attitude is maintained in this Bill which we are considering tonight. Obviously it pays to be uncooperative in this so called new federal system. Let us look at the States which are getting the highest subvention of federal moneys. We find they are the States whose Premiers are the least co-operative to the Federal Government. It seems that our Government is denying the very principles which it wants to institute in Australia and which are based on a new attitude towards federalism, a co-operative federalism which will establish some equity between States and a new pride in achievement for State administrations in being on their own feet. 
Under the banner of new federalism this Government acceded to the tantrums of the Premier of Western Australia, well documented, at the time when the Minister made his announcement in relation to the future road program in March. It appears that the Premier who is least co-operative will get the funds and the citizens of other States which have co-operated will be much worse off. It is a bad lesson, I believe, that this Government is teaching the Premiers by way of this Bill which is to the disadvantage of some States, particularly my own. The 
Government has listened to what I have said are the political tantrums of a Premier and has given in and presented this House with legislation for an additional sum of money for Western Australia which already stands at great advantage over my own State. 
The Opposition of course has continued its policy that it maintained in its 1 974 legislation.  Mr Morris,  in speaking to the Bill in the other place, said: 
The Opposition welcomes the additional $3.2m which is to be appropriated to Western Australia for road funding in the current year. It does not oppose the Bill. 
I suppose that it is too frightened to do the fair thing because of the electoral consequences it fears in Western Australia.  Mr Cotter,  my Liberal colleague in the other place, is quite specific about supporting my contention. As a Western Australian member he does not hide his enthusiasm for this Bill. If I were a Western Australian I do not suppose I would either. He is quite specific. He says at page 1957 of  Hansard  of '26 May 1977: 
The generosity of the Commonwealth Government in providing these extra funds is certainly appreciated by Western Australia . . . These funds have been in excess of the recommendations of the Bureau of Roads. 
I repeat: 'These funds have been in excess of the recommendations of the Bureau of Roads'. He goes on to say: 
There is no doubt that the Commonwealth has played its part in providing a massive direct infusion of money for roads in Western Australia ... I believe, as a whole, this has been a very generous Commonwealth approach to the road problem in Western Australia. 
He continues: 
It is significant that State and local government authorities in Western Australia contribute less when compared with their counterparts in other areas of the Commonwealth. 
They contribute less. I have figures here. The figure I produced in regard to motor taxation shows that Western Australia and South Australia are almost on an equal dollar for dollar basis. It is true when other figures are compared that Western Australia collects less in other taxation towards its road program.  Mr Cotter  goes on to make his point when finishing his speech by saying: 
The basic question is that the Federal Government has been very generous in the past, I have no doubt that it will be generous and sympathetic in the future, and I would ask that the Government look very seriously at the formula for allocating road funds. 
I admire  Mr Cotter.  I think he is a very valuable member of the House of Representatives, but I suggest on behalf of his constituents that he does not get the Government to look properly at the allocation of funds. If the allocation of funds is looked at properly and the Bureau of Roads' recommendations are adhered to his State will get less in relation to other States than it has in the past. 
I have not used the percentage figures tonight. The percentage which was recommended in 1 969, from memory, was 7.7 per cent of the total Australian road funds for Western Australia and 7 per cent for South Australia. These figures were a marked reduction. Both States fought them. The essential part of my complaint is that the Bureau of Roads' percentages were recommended to be almost identical for South Australia and Western Australia. It will not matter how the Minister may tend in his defence to juggle these figures or in some way to make them seem something which is justifiable. The evidence over one decade has shown that South Australia has had the most shabby treatment and that we are subject to some sort of deliberate neglect or antagonism. Whether it is departmental or not I do not know. No politician, no Minister, should sit in Cabinet and approve such an inequitable distribution. 
As I said previously, this matter is proving to all Premiers in Australia that they should not cooperate, that they should not be reasonable and that they should not think nationally if they are to obtain the best benefits of the new federalism which this Government apparently has adopted. I believe the Bill is a divisive, an invidious and a partial piece of legislation. It is most unfair to South Australia. I ask the House to think seriously as it ponders the legislation. I know that honourable senators will not join me in opposing it. I say that not in any way criticising them for their views. They have not, I believe, been aware of successive governments' complete disregard of the Bureau of Roads. I hope governments are beginning to become aware of the Bureau of Roads. I trust that the Government will not again approve a road program that so disregards the Bureau. If the Bureau is to be disregarded in this way I suggest it may as well be the subject of the Government's next economy measures. There is no point in having a bureau if governments are to make simply political decisions, if they are to simply please the most strident and uncooperative Premier in this federation of Australia. We had better do away with a body which is so disregarded. In any case, I state my own opinion. I oppose this Bill because of the dismal record of both political parties in their disregard of the Bureau and in particular their disregard of the citizens I represent in the Senate. 
I want to ask a question of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick).  I am not sure whether it fits in here,  Mr Chairman,  and I hope that you will guide me if I am trespassing on this clause. Clause 4 deals with grants of financial assistance to the States. That seems to me to be a general enough heading for me to ask a question of the Minister. Before doing so I would like to thank the Minister for his very temperate reply to my speech- it was helpful- and especially for the table which he read out which confirmed everything that I was saying. The percentages are almost identical, or near enough for argument's sake, for the point I was making. Therefore the history of what has occurred is not in dispute between us; the dispute is whether it properly occurred or not. 
In relation to the grants to the States, following  Senator Chaney  's quite remarkably able putting of his State's position and following the Minister's reply in which he said that Western Australia had somewhat different needs, I draw attention to the most comprehensive review of Australian road conditions by the Bureau of Roads. From my reading of it- I do not read every word of the Bureau's voluminous reportsit seems that the points they made about setting Western Australia aside are fully covered in the report. It would be little use having a bureau operating around Australia at such great expense- I understand that a most comprehensive study cost some millions of dollars- and coming back with a report that ignored the essential facts to which  Senator Chaney  and the Minister had referred. Those matters are specifically included in the reports. To remind the 2 gentlemen of the width of the investigation let me mention the headings in the 1975 report: Areas, growth centres, road classifications, physical conditions of Australian roads, finance for roads, evaluation of national highways, export and major commercial roads, rural and outer urban roads, and roads in built-up areas. 
The Bureau considered many other matters submitted to it including local government, State government and individual matters, petroleum resources and so on. Without wanting to transgress the Standing Orders I point out to the 2 gentlemen that all the points they have made are already included in the assessment which has been presented time after time to the respective Ministers before the road grants to the States have been decided. The point that I made and that I am now making is that consistently politics have overridden the good sense of the Bureau. 
That is essentially the point that I am making tonight. I do not expect in this debate or in considering this matter in Committee that we will make any progress on these matters but I simply ask the Minister whether he has any idea, under this clause which deals with grants of financial assistance to the States, why after the most comprehensive road investigations that can be undertaken in this country by the most highly respected Bureau of Roads, taking into account all the matters he and his supporting speaker mentioned in the debate, there have been differing percentage allocations to Western Australia and South Australia as is revealed in the tables he incorporated in  Hansard. 
I refer to the Schedules to indicate to the Senate how the allocations are made for both rural and urban areas to the advantage of Western Australia compared with my State. I make this comparison very briefly to refute, I believe, any suggestion that Western Australia is being advantaged numerically simply because it has rural problems beyond those of my State. I shall indicate the funds that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  announced in March would be allocated for 1977-78, that is, the future year. The rural arterial roads for South Australia were allocated $7m and for Western Australia the allocation was $9.4 1m. Rural local roads for South Australia were allocated $6.7m and in Western Australia $ 14.4m. At this point I am sure  Senator Chaney  would say, as I have said earlier in debate, that his State has a larger area and some greater problems. I could dispute that, but that is what he would say and he would look to those figures to prove his point. Then we come to the urban areas, under the heading 'Urban arterials'. South Australia is allocated $4.6m and Western Australia $llm. Urban local roads in South Australia are allocated $2.2m and in Western Australia $2.37m. For the MITERS program, which I believe is a sort of cleaning up grant arrangement for various aspects of roads, the allocation was $1.7m in my State of South Australia and $2m in Western Australia. Western Australia gets the great big slice of the cake, for both rural and capital urban roads. When it comes to urban roads, in respect of Adelaide, with its drastic need of renovation roads entering and leaving the city, that work is being sadly neglected under the State Labor Government that Government cannot enter into programs it would like to enter into when it is confronted with this sort of allocation. 
I was saying that my purpose in raising this matter tonight is one of protest, seeking to put an end to a decade or more of misadvantage to my State, and to give notice that the representatives of my State will in the future, I feel sure, demand a fair and more equitable allocation. I have much appreciated the reply of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  to the rather short case I made. The material is most voluminous. I feel that no part of my case has been destroyed. In fact, most of it has been confirmed by the material the Minster himself has produced. 
I certainly will do a great deal more homework on this matter in the intervening period before another agreement is presented. Whether I happen to be around this place or not, I certainly hope and believe that South Australia's representatives will not allow this inequitable situation to continue. I particularly ask Labor senators to stop taking some sort of loyal attitude to their previous disastrous course in supporting this inequitable allocation. I ask those honourable senators from South Australia to forget the antagonisms which may have made them support this Bill in its entirety this evening. I ask them to make sure that they present their view on the next occasion this matter is raised on the merits of the case. I ask them further to seek to ensure that the South Australian road program is as nearly aligned to the most expert advice that we can have in Australia- that will come from the Bureau of Roads- in the form of the program which is recommended to the Minister before the next allocations are made. In that way, South 
Australia will be able to achieve the justice which has been denied to it for all these years. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
At times I have wondered what were the numerous reasons that kept the Australian Labor Party in a minority position in Western Australia in both Federal and State areas. I can see that  Senator Walsh  is certainly a very large contributor to its present position, and I hope he keeps up the standard. I want to reply very shortly to  Senator McLaren,  who I notice was getting a little nervous when  Senator Walsh  was speaking because I know he did not approve in any way of what  Senator Walsh  was saying.  Senator McLaren's  contribution this evening was not of a very much higher standard. He tried to defend the South Australian Premier,  Mr Dunstan.  Of course  Mr Dunstan  is wrong on 2 counts. He is wrong in the substance of his telegram to South Australian senators and in the wasteful method by which he contacted them at a cost to the South Australian taxpayer of more than $700. 
-The honourable senator refers to some other action which he says is wrong to try to justify  Mr Dunstan  's action. One knows that cannot be done.  Mr Dunstan  's action stands by itself and can be examined by itself. The facts are that the South Australian Premier is the most extravagant Treasurer South Australia has ever had. In his extravagance he has imposed on his constituents taxation increases which no other State would have tolerated. At the same time he has obtained a great deal of finance from the Federal Government. He is unrepentant in being the most extravagant Premier in all Australia. In setting an example for the rest of the community, he has increased costs in South Australia to the extent that in the most vital area of housing they are the greatest in the Commonwealth. It pains me greatly to look back to the time of the Playford Administration, when South Australia was the envy of the nation in relation to ability to provide cheap social housing and cheap high quality housing. In every area South Australia was supreme. Experts from other States used to travel to South Australia to see what organisational ability the State Government had that led to such a favourable comparison. The extravagance of this Premier whom  Senator McLaren  defends tonight in contacting South Australian senators and his actions in managing the State he has taken over have resulted in this sort of report under the heading 'Adelaide is dearest for building': 
The cost  or  building a house in Adelaide is now the highest of any mainland capital city. 
This is shown in Housing Industry Association figures released today of building costs in all capitals. 
In the past three financial years the cost of building a house in metropolitan Adelaide has increased by SO per cent. 
In 1973-74 it cost, on average, $122 a square metre to build a house in Adelaide, and latest figures disclose the cost per square metre is now $ 1 84. 
In the same period, the cost of a house in Sydney rose from $ 1 30 to $ 1 7 1 a square metre. In Melbourne the rise was from $ 1 20 to $ 1 78 a square metre. 
The price rise in Brisbane was from $ 1 27 to $ 1 69 a square metre. In Perth prices rose from $ 107 to $ 159 a square metre. 
I remind  Senator McLaren  that the price is $184 a square metre in Adelaide. The report goes on: 
Association  president, Mr M.  J. Lloyd, said today the steep rise in South Australia had been caused by a number of factors. 
Among these was the cost of transporting many building component pans from the eastern States. 
On-costs had hit the building industry very hard in South Australia. 

 Mr Lloyd said: 'These include lavish workmen's compensation payments, imposed by the State Government, and which hit hard at sub-contractors. 
In addition, we face builders' licensing charges which contractors in other States do not have to deal with. 
Government charges, plus the cost of transport can be blamed as the two major reasons for the high prices in South Australia '. 
That is the product of the Premier who so carelessly fritters away $700 as an example to other people in the community. Why not spend it? It is only other people's money. South Australians are becoming aware of the penalty they now face, and the Premier knows that they are aware of it and he looks for diversions. He particularly looks for diversions as his regime in South Australia becomes repressive of personal freedoms. I certainly congratulate the Leader of the Opposition in South Australia,  Mr Tonkin,  for the very fine campaign he is now leading to free South Australia from the tyranny of the Dunstan Government in relation to its shopping freedoms. Polls have shown that well over 80 per cent of South Australians are seeking to enjoy the freedoms that Victorian and New South Wales people enjoy and they will vote accordingly at the next State election. 

 Mr Dunstan has obviously contracted the Whitlam disease. He has the disease of spending. He wants to spend in a fashion which was exemplified in the Senate yesterday by a remark from the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  that I never thought I would hear from him. He said that a social service program was economically justifiable because it was desirable. That appears to be the general economic approach of Labor across Australia. Of course that is the attitude  Senator McLaren  defended tonight and which will be rejected utterly at the next South Australian election. 
As a non-legal person I share some of  Senator Cavanagh  's inability to grasp the finer detail of this Bill. I have been pleased to consult with the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  on a number of occasions and put to him views that I personally hold and on behalf of my constitutents in South Australia. In general terms I would think that the Opposition would be largely in favour of and rather happy about this Bill. Honourable senators who were here in 1974 will remember the high passions that surrounded the passage of the Trade Practices Bill and how the Opposition at that time- which is now on this side of the House; I am a member of it- opposed many of the clauses in the Bill and particularly spoke strongly against consumer protection. 
It should be something of an encouragement to the Opposition- certainly it is to me- to know that the Government has not taken forward those rather over-enthusiastic views it had when in Opposition. It has not tried to destroy the impact of the Act. In fact as speakers on this side of the House have said, it has set out largely to improve the operation of the Act which was brought in by the Labor Government. I think this should therefore mean in general terms that we have something of a bipartisan approach to restrictive trade practices in Australia. In any case, I am especially pleased to find that the consumer protection clauses are being strengthened and that most other alterations have been made in response to legitimate claims by business. I am particularly pleased to know that the cry of small business has been listened to in regard to these amendments.  Senator Cavanagh,  in concert with a number of his colleagues, seems to have endeavoured to make out a case for secondary boycotts. He seems to be saying to the Senate that unions ought to be able to hurt a third innocent party to achieve their objections however desirable those objectives may be. I cannot, for the life of me, find the logic in the claim that an innocent party should be hurt however good the objectives may be that the union sets out to achieve. 
The leading  speaker  for the Opposition,  Senator Button,  mentioned in his remarks the weakening, as he termed it, of the control of the merger situation in Australia. I must say that some people in my State have made strong representations to maintain the provisions as they were. I listened and considered those representations as did many other members and I think all Liberal senators from South Australia. It has been very difficult for the Minister to maintain the strength of the previous conditions and at the same time give justice to the commercial community which is laced with a number of organisations which quite properly should be able to merge or sell their operations to other concerns. Many family concerns have been built up over a number of years of hard work by the principal who started them in the first place. It is quite legitimate that the families should want to have the advantage of the capital of that company and be able to obtain it through a merger situation. It is very difficult to say to the companies concerned that they are prohibited from obtaining such an advantage. I think that it is somewhat an overriding situation in the smaller company field. 

 Senator Ryan in speaking to the secondary boycott position outlined in proposed new section  45d  seemed also, as did  Senator Cavanagh,  to make out some case for persons, as she termed it, hurting a third and innocent party for the sake of their own ends. I think she ended her speech by saying that a union may wish to take such action. None of these reasons is good enough to in any way demolish the need for proposed new section  45d.  Senator Georges  rather astonishingly seemed in his argument to go completely against the reason for the Bill in its entirety. He did not seem to want to have legislation to remove restrictive trade practices. He appeared to require legislation to establish restrictive trade practices and fought in his speech for a minimum price structure, something which I resist with all my heart. 
I believe fully in restrictive trade practice legislation with teeth to take out the unfair aspects of trading between large and small companies and the many other combinations that there are in the commercial world. I believe in a set of rules which is as fair to one part of the commercial world as it is to any other operator in that field. This does not mean that one should accommodate the proposition of the Victorian Government that all beer prices should be at the one level; that we should have petrol sold at the one price; that we should, according to  Senator Georges,  have a single similar standard in all petrol reselling outlets with the price of petrol set to support these equal standards. He ignores the proposition that people, if they desire, should be able to serve themselves with petrol and accept a lower standard of care for their car in order to buy petrol at a lower price. If people want a higher standard of maintenance for their car they will buy their fuel at a higher price at a petrol station where they get better service. He ignores those necessary trends in commerce in our community. As I have said, to take his general proposition to the extreme is to deny entirely the need for the removal of discriminatory practices and to establish them. I find that a very strange recommendation, coming from a person who was a supporter of a government which at the time was to be congratulated for introducing this legislation. 
I will deal with only 2 points. The first relates to the matter of secondary boycotts. Labor speakers have tended to dwell on the problems of proposed section  45d  because of its impact on unions in situations in which they have got together, I suppose I might say 'fairly' for the purposes of debate, which could prove difficult to interpret and which might produce some unjustified penalty. One happening in South Australia was reported in an article in the Adelaide  Advertiser  of 31 May 1977 under the heading 'Oil tanker banned '. The article reads: 
Another tanker has been banned from berthing and discharging crude oil at the Port Stanvac refinery. 
The tanker the  Safina  Star is anchored off Port Stanvac waiting to unload her 700 000 barrels of Middle East crude oil. 
On Friday, the Seamen's Union lifted its ban from the tanker Ocean Venture to allow her to discharge her cargo of crude oil at the week-end. 
The State secretary of the Seamen's Union  (Mr R. Barklay)  said each ship was being assessed on merits. 
Each ship that berths at Port Stanvac will be assessed by the local secretary of the Seamen's Union on its merits. It is Seamen's Union policy in South Australia to make sure that only a few days supply of crude oil is on hand at the refinery so that the union can have the whole of South Australia at its mercy. Why? It wants to force a policy on a matter outside the immediate running of the Port Stanvac refinery, namely, to get an Australian-owned tanker put on to the oil run around the Australian coast. I understand- I stand to be corrected- that that tanker is not owned by the Mobil company. Therefore, 1  250 000  people could be starved of fuel, as they have been in the past, if this legislation is not effective. Surely the idea that 1  250 000  people can be starved of fuel by the Seamen's Union in South Australia by penalising the Mobil company at Port Stanvac for an objective outside the normal operation of the refinery surely must come under proposed section  45d.  There may be reasons of which I, as a non-legal man, am not aware why- it does not come under proposed section  45d. 
I know that  Senator Wright  has been making that point by way of interjection. It may be a valuable point, but I would have thought it would be fairly clear in this situation that the commercial enterprises are separate. I hope they are separate. I take  Senator Wright's  point. Quite frankly, if he is all too correct, I would like to see this legislation amended at some time in the future to take out the difficulty he sees. In any event, I believe that it is a major step forward to have that provision in the Bill. 
I agree with  Senator Missen  that we cannot look at this Bill in any way as being in its final state. Of course, it is not likely ever to be in its final state. I would not be surprised if this legislation were amended by the Houses of Parliament every year or every second year. I draw the attention of the Senate to the quite specific, well known situation in South Australia. Of course, it does not pertain only to South Australia. I refer to South Australia because I know it best. There are other greater secondary boycotts which are operating around the Australian coast and which are appalling in their national effect; but, as I have said, the one to which I have referred is specific and we know it. It ought to fall under proposed section  45d.  I draw that to the attention of the Australian Labor Party senators to counter the rather small and ineffective instances which they have raised and which go against the operation of this provision. I put this squarely to them: Do they approve of the Seamen's Union vetting every tanker that berths at Port Stanvac for the purposes I have outlined? No reasonable man who believes in maintaining or increasing the living standards of people around Australia or in his own State could possibly support that action. 
I want to end by saying briefly how pleased I am that the Government has retained section 49 in the Act. I received many representations during the early stages of the consideration of this legislation, before the Government reversed its decision on this matter. I believe that the Swanson Committee was not approached properly by the representatives of small business and that it was neglectful in the recommendation it made. I will not refer again to the enormous pressure a big trading concern can bring to bear on small or relatively small suppliers of manufactured and processed goods in the commercial world. There are many instances where they have done it and where they have practically ruined small businesses through their demands for discounts which are quite unrelated to the volume of business involved. I am extremely pleased to see that small business is looked after in the fashion that it is. I am pleased to support the Bill in the knowledge that it cannot be perfect but that the Act is improved, and I hope that it will be improved further in the future. 

 - Senator McLaren should be ashamed of himself tonight. He has continued the unremitting vendetta which members of the Australian Labor Party, both State and Federal, conduct year in year out against people who live on the land, who invest money in the land, who continue a family farming enterprise without any proper return on the capital involved in that enterprise, who continue their vocation simply because it is what they like personally and what they are trained for. Tonight, in a series of contradictions,  Senator McLaren  continues to say that he supports this legislation; yet, in his vindictiveness, he would like to be able to send throughout his area in South Australia the names of large users of superphosphate, who somehow in his thinking are recipients of a large Commonwealth subsidy. Of course, his argument falls to the ground. 
Recently the Federal Government increased very significantly the bounty that is paid for the manufacture of agricultural tractors in Australia. That is not the only area in which bounty payments are made, but I choose it because it is allied to agriculture. Under the new system I believe that the Government will pay to the manufacturer up to $2,500 per tractor of the highest kilowatt performance. In fact, the bounty is received by the workers who make those tractors in 2 Australian factories. The bounty would amount to some thousands of dollars per employee  per annum.  Does  Senator McLaren  ask that the names of those employees be placed on the public record? Why not? Because they are unionists on his side of politics, he would not ask for their names to be revealed to the Australian populace at large. 
Farmers are people whom his Party and he have treated vindictively over the years. He could say that the Labor Government gave attention not only to the superphosphate bounty but also to things such as petrol prices in country areas. It took away from country areas something like $50m, which had been used previously for a petrol prices equalisation scheme in country areas. The Labor Government instituted a system of Post Office charges that placed such a penalty on the extension and maintenance of telephone services that it was impossible for people to become subscribers and ordinary Australians in the communications sense. Of course, one could go through the areas in which the Whitlam Government, actively supported by  Senator McLaren,  deliberately and vindictively deprived agricultural operators not of benefits but of normal support which was far below that enjoyed by secondary industry. 
If  Senator McLaren  likes to equate the tariff support for secondary industry with the meagre support, by comparison, which goes to the agricultural industries, he is revealed for what he is- a vindictive operator. He is like his colleagues, particularly those in his own State, who do down the agricultural people at any chance they get. I have had experience of their methods at the State level, where year after year they have denigrated anyone who produces. Anyone who produces with his hands for his own business enterprise is anathema to Labor people.  Senator McLaren  in his speech tonight particularly demonstrated how he has allied himself with those who are anti-agriculture. 
This amendment is a pitiful exercise in politics. He wants to reveal the names of people who use over 200 tonnes of superphosphate on their properties.  Senator McLaren  and a significant number of his colleagues-I would not say that they all adopt his standards-want to hold this up to the public gaze and say: 'Here you are. We voted for the Bill, but these people are ripping you off'. This man, this great senator from South Australia, is willing to vote for the Bill, but at the same time he says: 'These people are ripping you off'. What sort of hypocrisy is that?  Senator McLaren  will vote for the Bill, but at the same time he accuses recipients of what he will vote for of ripping off the community. The standard which he adopts is illustrated in his own speech. He claimed with great fervour that the Australian Labor Party introduced the superphosphate bounty in the early 1940s. That is about when the Labor Party stopped thinking. He claimed credit for the introduction of the bounty in the 1940s. 
It was good enough then for his Party to introduce it without political vindictiveness and without requiring the keeping of a register of those receiving more than a certain tonnage that had been set arbitrarily. The Labor Government did not require it in the 1940s because it had a better sense of responsibility in those days. I pay tribute to the Party led then by the Curtins and Chifleys- a quite different Labor Party from the Labor Party today. It did not show the vindictiveness that has developed in the last few decades. That was the claim that  Senator McLaren  made tonight. He said: 'I am quite proud to say that we did it first'. Having done it first, he says tonight: 'I am going to vote for the second reading of the Bill but I want to reveal all those people who are ripping it off'.  Senator McLaren,  as I said at the commencement of my remarks, ought to be ashamed of the hypocrisy which he presents to the Senate. 
I want to thank  Senator McLaren  for clarifying his position. Indeed, he has ignored the comparisons I gave of people in industry who are the recipients of very large bounties. He has not required that they be named publicly so that they can be shown- 
-No; neither are farmers in this case. 
-Neither are the railway workers in most of the States of Australia, particularly some of the smaller States, responsible.  Senator McLaren  does not ask that they be named as recipients of the huge subsidies which railways have received from the general revenue of the various States. Many thousands of dollars are paid each year to subsidise the railway jobs, but  Senator McLaren  does not require that information to be made public. That is an aside. I thought  Senator McLaren  cleared the matter up quite delightfully when he became clearly ideological and made his attack on the basis of size. He said it was all right for a small farmer to receive the bounty but it was no good for a large farmer to do so. I thought that was very revealing. It came out that, as I tried to say in my earlier few words, that the Labor Party has been quite destructive of anyone who moves beyond what it considers to be the average or the small model in any productive society.  Senator McLaren  has cast himself completely against anyone who is beyond the normal average size. 
That is the ideology which he follows. He does not believe in someone being able to get on. Clearly he always will support someone of the lower echelon and not any of the people who try to get on a little bit. He will never support an increased target in the community. He has clearly said that he does not believe in supporting those who are beyond what I suppose he would consider to be the level of subsistence farmers. I am pleased he has clarified his position. It is clearly political and clearly ideological. He supports this legislation even though he would like to use it to vilify the more successful in the community. 
Amendment negatived. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I intend to support the Government in achieving its objective in gaining an instrument which wil prevent the continuation of these very difficult practices in the industrial field, but I am not content to support those parts of the Bill which might create an injustice. The debate so far does not seem to have answered, nor has the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  answered, the question arising from clause 5 which provides that Commonwealth employees who have no useful employment because of action outside their own organisation may be stood down. They may be stood down by the authority or the authority under the direction of the Minister or by someone who has delegated authority. Therefore, it is a very sweeping authority to stand down public servants or employees of the nominated authorities because of lack of useful employment which has been caused through no fault of their own. These employees will not have recourse to some arbitral authority, which is available to those in private employment. The question that arises in my mind is that the people covered by this Bill will not have a system of arbitration which will guarantee that they get fair treatment. Apparently they are at a disadvantage compared with those employees in private employment. 
I remind the Minister that I do not speak on behalf of those at whom this Bill is aimed- those who are creating the discontent and the very real difficulties in this community. I speak only on behalf of those innocent people who are caught up in this clause. It would appear that those who drew up this legislation went to one side to draw in extra authority for another matter quite separate from the intention of the Bill. By doing that it has brought in other principles such as the matter of safeguarding the rights of those people handled by clause S. Their interests are not safeguarded as are the interests of people in private employment. That is the situation as I understand it. I am no authority on industrial matters but that is the outcome of this debate. Therefore, I am not content about it. 
It is wrong, if, in order to overcome some totalitarian principles in industry or in the Public Service, we ourselves set up some totalitarian principles which affect innocent people. Therefore, this clause ought to be amended. It should not pass in this form. In saying that, I reiterate, so that there will be no misunderstanding, that I support the thrust of the Bill but I do not support this extraneous grab on the side at people's rights. 
Clause S, to which I propose an amendment, reads: 
Where, by reason of the existence of any industrial action (including industrial action in which Commonwealth employees are not engaged)- 
persons who are Commonwealth employees in relation to an employing authority cannot be usefully employed; or 
there is serious disruption to the performance of a function by an employing authority, being a function in connexion with the performance of which persons who are Commonwealth employees in relation to the employing authority are employed, the employing authority may, by instrument in writing, declare that Commonwealth employees specified in the declaration, being all or some of the Commonwealth employees referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) but not being Commonwealth employees engaged in the industrial action, are stood down during the period commencing at such time as is specified in the declaration (not being a time earlier than the  time  at which the declaration is made) and ending at the time at which the declaration ceases, or is deemed to have ceased, to have effect. 
As an amendment, I move: 
Lea ve out ' Where, by reason of the existence of any industrial action (including industrial action in which Commonwealth employees are not engaged)', insert 'Where, by reason of the existence of any industrial action in which Commonwealth employees are engaged '. 
My amendment, if passed, will delete the effect of industrial action other than by Commonwealth employees enabling Commonwealth employees to be stood down. It would still enable 
Commonwealth employees to be stood down if their redundancy was caused by industrial action by other Commonwealth employees. It is a half way measure but at least if excludes the implementation-as I understand the effect of my amendment- of this clause as a result of industrial action outside the nominated authority or the Commonwealth Public Service. In other words, it is not for me or anyone who attempts to amend this Bill to put in safeguards that the Government ought to have put in. I am not an expert in this field. Only the Government is in this regard. It drew up the Bill and it has left out these safeguards. Therefore, the next best thing is to remove action which is punitive to innocent people- action which arises completely outside the areas with which all of us are so concerned. The support for this Bill today has related to those matters within the Public Service and the disruptive minority that lies within the Public Service. I agree with the attack on this minority but I do not agree with the widened aspects of the Bill. The passage of my amendment would restrict the stand down clauses as I have outlined. 
The Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Bill highlights the vexed question of a small minority in public services being able to disrupt the purposes and utilities of the general community by withholding power, especially in key areas. This is a problem which has gone on for a very long time. It generates a great deal of heat in public discussion. The Labor Party has a great deal of difficulty in dealing with it. However, I suppose that is understandable in that the Labor Party is the political wing of industrial labour and it is committed, whether it wants to be or not, to a position of defence, regardless of the most reasonable aspect that can be put upon legislation that comes before the Parliament. So we have seen once again a strident offence against this Bill by the Labor Party as it defends its base. 
One would expect, however, that the Labor Party would be more co-operative when one understands the immense public support there is for action in regard to these small disruptive elements. I should have thought that politically, as well as morally in the sense of public responsibility, the Labor Party could have been more sympathetic, at least towards the aims of this Bill if not towards the detail of it. I respected and admired the speech made by  Senator Button,  in the sense of the manner in which it was delivered. I always enjoy his speeches. I enjoyed particularly his reference to the fact that nothing he could see could make me work in this chamber. I thought that remark was rather apt and humorous, especially as I had done only a little, but some, work on this Bill. I enjoyed his speech, although it was misguided in its general thrust. 
The second reading speech made by the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  was a short speech. Most of the speeches in the debate have been short, either by choice or because of the limitation of time which has been imposed on us all. On balance, this is a desirable Bill in that it is designed to aggregate more power into the hands of employing authorities and the responsible Minister to meet this particular and grave problem within the Australian public services. It is, however, a serious move in that it disrupts the method of consensus of management of industrial relations in the community. As a democratic country we desire to rest whenever we can on a consensus of views through arbitration and conciliation rather than by the direct use of centralised power. It is to be regretted that this Bill is necessary, although necessary it is. However, as it is an alternative method to that of consensus it is one that should not be unnecessarily used; nor should it be unnecessarily wider than is needed to accomplish the desired ends. 
This Bill is brought into this House because the Government has a good deal of, in fact enormous, public backing for its move. No government of any type could successfully pursue this legislation without public backing because of the resistance that would otherwise grow against it. Having said that, I repeat that this Bill ought not to be wider in its ramifications than is necessary. It ought not to achieve the opposite end, that is, to unite extremist groups in militancy. In that regard I have some difficulty with a part of clause 5 to which a number of speakers have referred in relation to the stand-down of people employed in the Public Service or statutory bodies because there is no further useful work for them to do for a period. I believe that those people are outside the ambit of the intentions of, and the debate surrounding, this Bill. The legislation would have been better if that stand-down clause had been left out of this Bill. I say that because of the speech made by  Senator Wright  which I believe was a very valuable exposition of the view on this side of the House and of the view of most people in Australia. For instance,  Senator Wright,  other than mentioning the fact that the power exists under this Bill, hardly dealt with the matter of stand-downs of people in the Public Service because no useful employment is available to them as a result of action taken by people outside of their own organisation. Nearly every person who has supported this Bill has in no way dealt with the reason why that provision is in this Bill. I believe it ought not to be in the Bill. 
If we contend that members of the Public Service ought to be stood-down because of a lack of useful work for them they should be dealt with in the Public Service in the same manner as employees are dealt with in private industry. The case for a stand-down should be heard by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and dealt with on an equal basis to members of private industry. To that end I have drawn up a small amendment to strike out a few words so as to confine clause 5 to industrial action in which Commonwealth employees are engaged. I have done this on the basis that I do not say that stand-downs should not occur as part of good sensible economic management as occurs in private industry. In the way this Bill is particularly constructed this provision does not belong. It is outside the general intentions- in fact the specific intentions- of this Bill and in fact can only bring difficulty to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street). 
I contend that it is politically impossible for any Minister to stand down people in the Public Service under this clause for that particular reason without some outside arbitration concerning that stand down. It would bring a good deal of contention quite outside, as I have said, the general moves for the presentation and passage of this legislation. I do not think it is politically possible for a Minister directly to issue the order to stand down in regard to people who are innocent of the action that brought on the stand down move. In fact in my opinion that provision is extraneous to the general thread of the Bill and it should not be there. If it is to remain in the Bill a decision should rest only on outside arbitration and for that reason I will move an amendment to clause S in the Committee stage. 
There is only one other clause that mystifies me a little. That is clause 11. I have had it explained to me by experts but I still do not understand it. I believe that it is capable of great misunderstanding. I would like to see that clause cleared up by the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  today when he replies. If he cannot clear it up, I would like to see it amended in future so that it can be understood. Generally I support the thrust of this legislation. I do so because the need for it is very great. We cannot have this disruption. I believe that this is legislation to remedy the faults that flow from a consensus which does not continue because of the lack of co-operation from certain elements in the industrial movement. We should possess this power and should use it wisely, but we should excise from the legislation that matter which, as I have mentioned, does not belong in it. 
It is not coincidental that this urgency motion should be before the Senate today. The Labor Party knows that there is to be an election in South Australia and it has introduced this motion so that it can go back to South Australia with a story of propaganda. Whether or not the motion is passed does not matter. If it should pass, the Opposition will claim some sort of victory for having influenced the Senate in this matter. If it does not pass, it will blame the Government for its refusal to agree to the motion here. What we are seeing with this motion is the most disgraceful move of the Opposition unloading its entire responsibility, which rests entirely on its shoulders, onto the shoulders of the Government. 
Whyalla has been a long-term victim of the Labor Party. I could not but help think, as I listened to the spurious arguments of  Senator Bishop  and  Senator McLaren,  about the endeavours of the the then Liberal Opposition to have the gas pipeline that came from South Australia's quite notable inland gas fields brought down to the proximity of Whyalla so that the city of Whyalla, with all its industries, could obtain a supply of gas quite soon after Adelaide obtained a supply. What did the Frank Walsh Labor Government do? It completely ignored that plea on behalf of Whyalla and denied that most valuable of all industrial fields to that important city. Opposition senators talk here today as if they are sympathetic to Whyalla. That one decision was one of the most major blows in the last 10 years or 15 years to the city of Whyalla and the State Labor Government was directly responsible for it. The Dunstan Government has done nothing since to remedy that position. 
However, we have seen what is wrong with the shipbuilding industry in Australia. The South Australian Labor senators who are so keen to speak on this issue have not mentioned the once very successful shipbuilding company at Port 
Adelaide, the Adelaide Ship Construction Company. They have not mentioned the fact that that company went out of existence because of the attitude of industrial labour that simply refused to co-operate with the management and the owners of the Adelaide Ship Construction Company. This company, which was one of the most successful small ship construction companies in Australia at the time, launched a major tug- they were not small in the sense of the tugboat fleet- in some periods every three weeks of the calendar. This was a most valuable company which I believe employed nearly 1,000 people at the height of its productivity. Yet it was destroyed by the people who put in office the senators who sit opposite. It was destroyed by industrial labour. 

 Senator Bishop knows that he is only part of the parliamentary wing of industrial labour. He has the audacity to come here today and blame the Government for his own policies. This is the twist that all of Australia should recognise. All the complaints from Labor senators throughout the whole argument on the shipbuilding industry are complaints about their own policies, policies fixed by the Whitlam Government in 1973. They are not complaining about Liberal policies at all. The Liberal Government has not altered them except to make them a little better, as  Senator Jessop,  who so ably replied to  Senator Bishop,  has told the Senate. The Liberal Government has improved them a little. Here we have the Labor Party stridently blaming this Government for what the Whitlam Government said in so many words and was printed in black and white in 1973. I might say that I would not have thought that  Senator Bishop  would fall for this trick by the Labor Party. It has just used him, as one of the more pleasant senators on the Opposition benches, to bring in one of the most audacious and disgraceful motions that I have heard here for many months. The Opposition simply is trying to unload the responsibility which rests surely on the shoulders of Labor. 
Briefly I have used the example of how the Labor Government destroyed a successful shipbuilding company in South Australia which employed the biggest part of 1,000 people. It bears that responsibility today. When we look at any industrial problems in South Australia in relation to employment, we see that it must bear that responsibility and know that the position would be so much better today than the figures indicate but for the actions of Labor. However, I suppose Labor must do something to try to reduce the criticism that the Dunstan Government is a non-achieving government. It is a nonachieving government because no one opposite can say here what major industrial projects have been brought to South Australia during the term of office of the Dunstan Government. It has, in fact, not been in any way the reforming Government that many of the proponents of Labor would have. However, it has been a very good government for propaganda. It has been mentioned in this debate that it has put forward at each election for, I think, the past several elections the proposition of a petro-chemical works in South Australia. I can remember also the housing industry which was to be developed to the south of Adelaide in conjunction with the Australian Council of Trade Unions. 
So we can go through the many empty promises of the Labor Government in South Australia and know that they are just election bait and nothing more, bait that takes the South Australian public for a ride at each election. Whilst they do not belong in this debate, I could mention many factors in South Australia which, of course, support the well known view that South Australia was not built industrially by the Labor Party. The Labor Party has begun the dismantling of the industries which were put there by the Liberal Party in office. I mentioned one particular company employing so many people. Across the State there is great concern at the small businesses that go to the wall because of the antagonism of the Labor Party, the antagonism so very well demonstrated in industrial legislation which makes it impossible in some ways to run businesses in our State. 
There is a repressive attitude to union management and a demand that all should be members of a union. Whilst I have not checked it I have been told that if one is to receive unemployment relief, for instance- unemployment relief that comes from this Government- while working for a council in South Australia, one must belong to a union to obtain it. That is what I have been informed and I would like the Labor Party to deny it. Whilst the Labor Party today raises this issue of shipbuilding freedoms in South Australia are disappearing under the repressions of Labor. 
To get back to the matter raised by the Labor Party today, let me say that I listened with some interest to  Senator Bishop's  general assessment of how we should build ships in Australia and, of course, man them with Australians. Again this brings in the industrial front of Labor. We in South Australia are well aware of how our petrol supplies are throttled whenever the Seamen's 
Union of Australia puts on the pressure in regard to using Australian ships manned by Australian crewmen on the Australian trade. 

 -Perhaps Senator Georges would follow the course that Labor obviously follows, namely, that all Australian goods should be carried by Australian ships manned by Australian seamen. That is the obvious result of what  Senator Bishop  is saying here today. He would crush the economy of this country for the sake of ideology. This is ali the Labor Party would do. This is what it is doing in relation to the shipbuilding industry. As I said before, Whyalla has been a victim of the Labor Party because the cost structure in Australia no longer supports shipbuilding. That is the simple essence of the position. 
It is not a matter of whether I would like to continue trying to help Whyalla as a senator, as I have in the past in other capacities. It has been Liberal governments that have built the housing at Whyalla. It has been the Housing Trust of South Australia that has done one of the best jobs in Australia in building housing to support the industries of Whyalla. What is the program of the Housing Trust today? It would not be building onethird I mean in absolute terms- of the houses it built at the height of its operations under the Playford Government. 

 -As Senator Jessop says, the Trust is going into the renovation business. Even with renovated houses, its output will still be about one-third of what it used to be under a dynamic, thrusting government which had the welfare of the people at heart, especially the people at Whyalla. I believe that at the height of the building program one-half of the Housing Trust's activity was placed behind the industries of Whyalla in building homes for the people who came to be employed in the industries there. 
I get back to the point that I made earlier. The problem with shipbuilding in this country is the simple cost structure that bedevils every other industry in this country. It is a cost structure which has been pushed on by the philosophy of the parliamentary wing of industrial Labor that was sent into power in Canberra to wreak havoc in the economy on behalf of the sectional interests it has always represented. Labor is a sectional party. In managing Australia's economy it completely unbalanced the cost structure within this community. Today not only the shipbuilding industry but also many other industries face the prospect of structural adjustment.  Senator Jessop  indicated that for shipbuilding to continue in this country a subsidy of $12,000 per year per employee would be required. That illustrates the problem into which Labor got this country. In fact we can trace the problem back to specific actions which are examples of this policy that Labor has always followed. I remember the Crean Budget, I think it was. I cannot remember which of the three Treasurers that there were during the short period of the Whitlam Government brought in the Budget to which I refer, but who will forget listening in the Senate to the proposition that the expenditure of the government of Australia should increase by over 40 per cent in one year? Who will ever forget that? Certainly not the Labor Party, which now stands responsible for the disruption that its program caused. Whyalla is the recipient of that sort of policy. 
Of course, in South Australia the same sorts of policies are followed with even less responsibility by the Dunstan Administration- a government which utterly rejected its own Federal party in 1975. Premier Dunstan went on television saying: 'They are hurting me'. Why were they hurting him? The Federal Government was overspending on all the various programs that it had developed. It was overspending with the type of Budget to which I referred previously. What does the South Australian Premier say today when there is a Liberal Government in Canberra? He says that the expenditure is not great enough. Not enough is being spent, so the South Australian Premier says. He has spent the capital that he got from the sale of the South Australian railways to the Commonwealth. That was an enormous windfall for the South Australian Government and a move I did not oppose as a proposition. The facts are that the Premier admits that the money he received from the Commonwealth, which was many tens of millions of dollars- some was on a recurring basis because maintenance expenditure will no longer be required, and the rest was a capital sum for the purchase by the Commonwealthhas gone. He has expended it. He has set up in South Australia a rate of expectation which his or any other government will be unable to sustain because of the wasteful manner in which he has expended State funds. 
Yes, an enormous extra amount which has gone into an effort to prop himself up politically. It has gone into a political effort, not into the good management and maintenance of South Australia. It has gone into a program designed to further the prospects of the Labor Party and the sectional interests it always represents. 
So, as I have said, we find that twist in Labor which allows Opposition senators to blame the present Government for the programs of the Whitlam Government which are clearly defined. Opposition senators are complaining to the Senate about the work of their own Government and about their own failures in regard to the shipbuilding industry. They are saying to the Senate and to this country that we should maintain an industry in which, as  Senator Jessop  pointed out- -  Senator McLaren  may support it if he wants to -13 days per person were lost through strike action in one year at Whyalla and 26 days per person were lost at Newcastle. We are supposed to ask  Senator Bishop's  colleagues in industry, the people he is supposed to represent, to pay additional tax to support that sort of activity. It is not just the bosses or the high income people who provide the subsidies in Australia. The costs of subsidies are spread right across the taxpaying community, which involves every worker. It is a disgrace that the Labor Party should bring this matter before this chamber. It is complaining about its own policies which were fixed in 1973. 1 reject the matter of urgency for what it is, namely, a political ploy to take the heat off Don Dunstan in South Australia. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education. Recognising the Minister's undoubted talents in enabling him to maintain a favourable allocation for what has obviously been a careful and somewhat difficult Budget for his most important portfolio of education, will he again use those talents in the reconsideration of his statement concerning Commonwealth grants for schools to obtain from the Treasurer additional funds to add to the most desirable program of assistance for private schools rather than reducing the amounts previously available for services and development for special projects and for other purposes? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. What is the present position of planning for a future major airport outside metropolitan Adelaide? In investigations for such a site has consideration been given to the possibility of locating civil air operations at Edinburgh, in conj unction with Royal Australian Air Force usage? 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  was on very poor ground in trying to mount an attack on this piece of legislation. Probably local government would have most to fear from his concluding remark that the Australian Labor Party in office in the future would make substantial changes to this legislation. As this legislation increases the amount going to local government across Australia this year by 1 8 per cent, we can only assume that Labor in office would deprive some councils for the benefit of others in making those alterations or would better the 18 per cent increase given this year. Its record does not show that the latter could be expected from Labor in office. As  Senator Georges  would know from studying the history of this matter, the Labor Government in its first Budget provided $56.3m for local government around Australia and in its second and last Budget it appropriated $79.9m. The figures which the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs  (Senator Carrick)  has produced show that last year the present Government provided $140m. Disregarding any inflationary effects on the money going to local government, the record of Labor in this matter in no way matches the performance of this Government. Therefore, as I said quite deliberately, the greatest threat to local government is contained m the concluding remarks of the Leader of the Opposition. 
The Leader of the Opposition could not attack the detail of this measure. What he did was present some Labor ideology. He attacked the federalism policy in general and deplored the fact that the Commonwealth Government does not have sufficient control over local government. Today a remarkably well attended meeting, dealing with the controls that Labor exerts in the community, was held in the Adelaide Town Hall.  Mr David  Tonkin, the Leader of the Opposition for the moment in South Australia, led a protest by the South Australian community about compulsory unionism as it is applied in South Australia. The Leader of the Opposition in the Senate deplored the fact that the Federal Government would not have as much control over Liberal policy in regard to local government in Australia as the Federal Labor Government previously had. Of course, that is as it ought to 
The Leader of the Opposition did not recognise in any way the proper relationship between local government and State government. As he would know upon reflection, on the statute book of every State there is a very important Act called the Local Government Act. That creates local government in each State. The relationship between local government and State government which the Fraser Government has established is a very proper one. The Government asks the Commonwealth Grants Commission to fix the shares of income tax that the States will get. It then hands to the State, with the very wide guideline that 30 per cent of the money be distributed on a population basis, the responsibility for the allocations to individual councils. In fact, the State Parliament is the parent of local government in each State. This is the proper devolution of authority in this matter. For the Leader of the Opposition to deplore the lack of control is a direct insult to the State governments and to local government, which is dependent on them for the authority to exist. 
The Leader of the Opposition put his own set of figures in front of the Senate. However, he did not indicate how the individual parts of the figures were made up. In giving figures which suggested that the Labor Government gave more to local government, he did not tell the Senate that those figures included unemployment relief schemes. He did not tell the Senate that they had nothing to do with the principle involved in this Bill, which, as we have noted already in the debate, is the provision of a subvention of income tax revenue for sharing through the wider State by State allocations of the State grants commissions. It was quite false for the Leader of the Opposition to include unemployment relief schemes in this principle in this Bill. It was a diversion and it shows how shabby is his argument related to Labor's performance in office, as  Senator Georges  knows. 
This Liberal Government's policy properly recognises the proper chain of authority between the three tiers of government in this country. It is true that there were some minor transitional difficulties in the change from the implementation of the policy of the Labor Government to the implementation of the Liberal policy. But that change has been vitally necessary because the Labor Party in office made the subvention to local government direct from this Parliament simply to short-circuit the system of electoral reviews and to obtain party political support by that subvention. It was deliberately designed to give political advantage to the Labor Party by this Parliament being directly involved in the housekeeping assessments of local government across Australia. It was not fair in a sense to this Parliament and it certainly was not fair to State government or local government. But those minor matters should be judged here in this administration in the context of the existence and continuation of local government in Australia. 
The facts are that the allocation this year, which the Minister said in his second reading speech is expected to amount to, I think, $16Sm and which representees the Minister has said, an increase of 1 8 per cent on the very generous allocation last year of $ 140m, comparing more than favourably with anything that has gone before, represents a sum which will more than counter the effects of inflation and will mean a real increase in the capacity of local government to meet the difficulties it has in this communityand local government does have difficulties. Anyone who has studied his own local government area will know what demand is made on local government for increased services at a time when its specific operation perhaps pays a higher penalty for the rate of inflation in the community than that of any other organisation. The costs of services and the costs of mechanical operations are so directly affected by the rate of inflation in the community. 
Especially in country areas, local government is finding it enormously difficult to maintain for some that which is only a skeleton service because of the challenge that inflation presents and the challenge of lowering rural incomes. I know that my own local governing area has consolidated its operation at a figure of something like two-thirds of the outside work force and has had to raise its rates this financial year to a very significant level. The subvention it has received this year, through the local grants commission and directly attributable to this Government, has been of great use indeed in enabling it to maintain the local organisation which I know so well and which other honourable senators know so well in relation to their own areas. I commend the Government for insisting on the 30 per cent allocation on a per capita basis. It seems to me that it is a wide guideline. It is not at all restrictive in the general sense that 70 per cent is left to development under the equalisation system, as I think the Grants Commission refers to it. That is a wide ambit to judge between the needs of local government areas. But the 30 per cent will ensure, and does ensure, that every citizen will in some way benefit from this allocation. I do not see it as a disability, as does the Leader of the Opposition. I see it as an advantage to the particular legislation and its operation. 
I am pleased to be able to support this legislation. I believe that it truly recognises that grand service which is given so freely by people in local government. It is service, in the sense of city or council service, which is given for nothing at that level and which is given on a dedicated basis by paid and executive staff. It is a service which in many ways is a very humbling experience for members of Parliament- who, although they are not overpaid, as we all know, are operating in a paid atmosphere in the service of the public- to attend and observe the work of those many thousands of people who give their services for nothing in local government. I am particularly pleased that this legislation and the principle involved in it recognises the need of those people to get the support of the community for the services that they provide so well. I especially support it for the fact that it recognises the proper connection between local government, State government and the Commonwealth Government. 

 -Mr President, I suppose it is pleasing for honourable senators to know that at least there is a positive program of road construction in their States. For that reason, we can see in the Bills before the Senate allocations of certain amounts of funds to various areas of road construction. As I have said, it is encouraging at least to see that program. I agree this far with what  Senator McLaren  has said: South Australia's share is not a sufficiently high percentage of the whole. South Australia does not get its fair share of the total cake of funds that are being allocated in this legislation for road construction. I go as far as that in agreeing with  Senator McLaren.  However, I must inform  Senator McLaren  of something about which in his quieter moments he would be well aware: It is the Australian Labor Party that stands responsible for the small and unfair share of funds that South Australia gets. The reason for this stands in two areas. 
Firstly, there was developed in the early 1960s and middle 1960s a very comprehensive road program for metropolitan Adelaide. It was called the MATS plan- the Metropolitan Adelaide Transport System plan. It was a plan formulated in the beginning by the Playford Government and, as far as its construction was concerned- the studies and the work which were done to construct that plan- this was done during the three years of the Labor Government from 1965 to 1968. It was a plan paid for out of government funds to the extent of some $700,000 by the Labor Government of that day. However, it was a plan which was utterly rejected by the Labor Opposition when it lost office in 1968 in one of the most cynical political moves surrounding Australian transport that has ever been made. The then government, moving into Opposition, entirely rejected, for the sake of political opportunism, the plan which it had commenced and for which it had paid. Of course, it was not just that cynical approach that was so deplorable. It was the fact that that party, in gaining government again in 1970, said that it would delay the construction of the essential parts of that program for at least 10 years. So it was saying to those who might help it- in fact, to the Commonwealth Government: 'We do not want your funds for 10 years. We will go slow. We will put all this program aside. We will not keep up with the metropolitan transport needs of Adelaide like every other government is keeping up with its metropolitan transport needs in other capital cities of Australia. We will be the odd man out and deny to our citizens the help we can get from the Commonwealth Government'. We can see the result today. Intervening in the period between 1970 and today when we watch this poor result for South Australia we must remember there was a conjunction of Labor governments at the Federal and South Australian State level. From 1972 to 1975 a Labor Government was managing the affairs of South Australia and a Labor Government managing the affairs of Australia. This presented a wonderful opportunity to remedy the poor showing of South Australia in regard to roads a matter upon which I agree with  Senator McLaren.  I put the question to him, through you,  Mr President:  Why is it that this same percentage of funds going to the South Australian Government applies now as was the case prior to 1972 and the advent of the Federal Labor Government? The reason is quite clear. Federal Labor has always had a bias against South Australia in relation to road programming. That is proven by the conjunction of governments. The new agreement was drawn up in that time between 1972 and 1975.  Senator McLaren  has spoken in the Senate today and complained about this inevitable disparity which his government perpetuated and which I believe even widened to some extent. 
I have protested about this before, as senators who paid attention to debates on road matters would know. I went so far as to vote against a certain procedure of a Bill which allocated these funds on an earlier occasion. I have made my protest quite plain and I do not intend to carry it to that extent again. I understand that it was a symbolic move and it has no more support. 
-Senator McLaren had better not talk about electoral matters. I notice that the area in which he lives solidly returned a Liberal Party representative to the House of Representatives. On that basis, I would be very happy to invite  Senator McLaren  down at Hawker. I hope he takes up residence there. It would be a wonderful omen for me. 
What we have seen as the basis ofthe problem is the poor showing of the South Australian Labor Government in negotiating with the Commonwealth. On every occasion that Government has folded in presenting the South Australian case in Canberra in the councils which have allocated these funds. It is well known in South Australia that the South Australian Premier and his Ministers are very weak negotiators when they travel interstate and meet their peers at the State level and at the Commonwealth level in regard to the allocation of Australia's resources. 
It has resulted in this son of comparison. South Australia gets back out of the all-up funds, including those for national roads and those used for other national road purposes, $1.1 from the Commonwealth for every dollar we spend ourselves in South Australia. Western Australia receives $1.5 on the same basis. That is an enormous disparity. The situation in respect to roads other than national roads is perhaps a fairer indicator. For roads outside roads of national priority, for every $ 1 that South Australia spends it gets 60c from the Commonwealth whereas Western Australia gets $ 1 for every $ 1 it spends. 
It is therefore a tremendous reflection on those negotiators who come from South Australia and tamely and quietly accept that son of allocation from the total road funds of Australia. It is to the eternal discredit of the Labor Party, the party which  Senator McLaren  so vocally represents here, that it accepts that from year to year. South Australians are not aware of any fight put up on their behalf to make the share more equal. For that reason this particular comparison is so pointed. One could argue, as I have said before in these debates, that Western Australia has a much greater claim in regard to rural roads. But one area which is incontestable is capital city roads and those roads which serve suburban populations. In that area the needs of South Australia are quite beyond those of Western Australia. The funds which are devoted to be expended on the construction of urban arterial roads amount to $4.6m for South Australia and $1 1.2 for Western Australia. The reason for that, apart from the weak presentation of its case by the South Australian Government in Federal councils, goes right back to the initial point that I made when I rose, that is, that the South Australian Government has completely abandoned its responsibilities in regard to providing even plans for building arterial roads for the South Australian urban population. 

 Senator JESSOP (South Australia)-Mr  President,  I claim to have been misrepresented. I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 

 Senator McLAREN (South Australia)-Mr  President,  I claim to have just been misrepresented by  Senator Jessop,  and I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources. In view of a statement recently made by the marketing manager of an Australian oil producing company that South Australian gas resources are now largely committed to the Sydney market, that not a drop of gas is contracted to South Australian users beyond 1982 and that South Australian prospective discoveries are unlikely to exceed commitments already made to New South Wales, can the Minister give an assurance that the Government is aware of this position and that action will be taken in conjunction with the South Australian Government to encourage further discoveries in that State or, alternatively, to connect that State's pipeline system with the other Australian gas reserves? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is the Minister aware that a number of measures are undertaken by State governments in the United States of America in support of the development and commercial utilisation of solar energy to the extent that it is expected that 7 per cent of that country's energy needs will be met by solar energy by the year 2000? Is the Minister aware that income tax credits and deductions ranging from 10 per cent to 100 per cent are allowed by various United States State governments and that the United States Congress is considering a Bill to allow income tax credits of 40 per cent on the first $1,000 expenditure with a $2,000 limit to the allowance? Will the Government consider a similar range of deductions in Australia to conserve Australia's fossil fuels by the maximum encouragement of the use of solar energy. 
I want to say but a few words in reply to that provocative jumble of fact and fancy that  Senator McLaren  presented to the Senate, the purpose of which is hard to discern. We could hardly find an object among the miscellaneous set of fact and fancy that he gave us. 
-As my colleague  Senator Baume  rightly said, it was a word salad. I was drawn to say just a few words because  Senator McLaren  mentioned my views, which I have stated quite clearly, in relation to double dissolutions and the like. I have no more reason now to alter in any way my views on double dissolutions than I have had in the past. I am not ashamed to stand by those remarks. However, they have no bearing on the general theme that one could find in  Senator McLaren's  remarks in that he seems to maintain that in some way the Labor Party was more effective in its term of government than is this Government in its existing term. This is something to wonder at and to regard as an incredible and, in fact, unsupported statement. 
The honourable senator in no way made any case for the actions of his party in office, which have produced the base for the present economic difficulties in Australia. In no way can he present and develop an argument as to the election and unseating of governments that in any way will justify the uncontrollable attitude that his party adopted towards Australian finances when it was in office. The essence of the result of the 1975 election is simply that the Australian Labor Party, despite the method by which it confronted the Australian people, was found wanting by the Austraiian people. They clearly gave an economic judgment on the Labor Government. They said: 'We no longer trust the Australian Labor Party to manage the financial affairs of our country'. They expressed that opinion quite clearly. It exists today in the form of the majority as it stands in the lower House of the Australian Parliament. 
I simply wanted to say, as I have said before, that the standard of economic management of the Australian Labor Party in office is best seen and judged by the increase in the Budget of, I think, 1975, which involved an increase in expenditure of 43 per cent on the previous year's Budget. A great deal can be read into that percentage. It means simply that to fuel the fires of its ideology, to create instantly in Australia the picture of a socialised or a socialising community that the Labor Party wanted, it was willing to mortgage every Australian's future to achieve the almost instant availability of its policy in this country. To provide for an increase of 43 per cent in Budget expenditure is to do nothing more than to mortgage every Australian's future. That mortgage is being paid for now in some of the economic difficulties in this country. The readjustment to match the extreme extravagance of the Labor Party in government still goes on. It is clear that, no matter what the argument may be about how this Government goes to the people in the future, nothing will detract from the judgment that the people will know, knowing full well that they still remember the Labor Party's three years in office. 
Who leads the Labor Party? Can anyone really say who leads the Labor Party? Whose personal stamp will be put on a future Labor Party government? Will it be a Whitlam? Can honourable senators say confidently that the present Leader of the Opposition will lead for a full term in a future Labor government? Will it be  Mr Hawke?  Can any honourable senator opposite say that it will not be  Mr Hawke  following his gaining of a seat in the Parliament and gaining ascendency in the Labor Party in all the turmoils and turbulences that occupy the internal affairs that are so public of the Labor Party in Australia? Will it be  Mr Hayden,  who has been so prominent recently in economic predictions and who has stood against his leader for leadership in recent times and failed? Will it be any of those three? Will it be Hawke, Hayden or Whitlam? No one can say whose stamp will be put on Australia's policy for everyone to see after a few months in office by the Labor Party.  Senator McLaren  knows that he cannot confidently say to any Australian elector 'Vote for the Labor Party. This will be our leader in continuity'. There is no security of leadership. 
I have risen basically to add to this important question of leadership by saying that one of the stones-seemingly well based- being told in my State today is that the South Australian Premier is soon to enter national politics in Australia. It would appear that none of the people I have mentioned is good enough. It would appear that no one here is assumed and judged to be sufficiently able to lead the Labor Party, firstly, to victory and then through a period in office. In South Australia today an apparently well based story is being told that the seat of Bonython is to be allocated, over the already existing candidature of a Labor Party member, to the Premier of South Australia,  Mr Dunstan,  to enable him to come to Canberra to try to rescue the Labor Party from its deficiencies of leadership. I will be very interested to find out whether the members of the Labor Party opposite can so confidently deny that report. I wonder whether they can so confidently deny it. Indeed it is an interesting conjecture. It is interesting not simply because of the advent of that gentleman in the lower House of this Parliament but also because of the fact that he is at all needed here; that it could be considered that there is no leadership here which is attractive to the Australian public and someone has to be imported. I will be interested in seeing whether there is any valid basis for that report from South Australia today, which is indeed a reflection upon the current leadership in Canberra. Should it occur- I say this without vindictiveness the deficiencies of the fourth person I have mentioned soon will be found out by the Australian public. 
In general, in answer to  Senator McLaren,  I would say that no fulminations and no causes of election can hide the fact that the members of the public have tested the Labor Party and found it to be wanting. They will do so in the future on the basis that it appears that the Labor Party will always mortgage the future to achieve its ideological aims in the present, and that is something the Australian public and the Australian nation cannot afford. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. In view of the community concern about the production and spread of drugs in Australia, most recently evidenced by the appointment of two State royal commissions and a Commonwealth royal commission, and the widely held suspicion that marihuana is grown undetected in certain areas of Australia, will the Government offer to State Government drug detection authorities the services of Royal Australian Air Force helicopters and crews so that effective search and discovery may be carried out from the air? 
I address my question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. I draw his attention to a draft report published last month by the Industries Assistance Commission on ball bearings, which states: 
Sheltered from import competition for most of the postwar period, local manufacturers have generally failed to match the increasing efficiency of overseas producers. 
Will the Minister ensure that future tariff protection for ball bearing manufacturers will be available only on condition that this mainly overseas owned industry is upgraded in efficiency and investment to overseas standards? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. In view of the very great concern among relatively smaller mining and exploration companies regarding the enormous taxation disadvantage they suffer in relation to larger mining organisations in that exploration expenditure may be allowed as a taxation deduction only from established mining incomes, will the Minister reconsider present Government policy and allow mining exploration costs as legitimate expenses when incurred by smaller prospecting companies which do not, as yet, have established mining incomes, but which have proven so beneficial to Australian mineral search in the past and which, under present policy, may be forced out of the business? 
There is no doubt that there is a growing realisation that the shortage of fossil fuels will become evident to modern communities long before reserves actually begin to deplete. In fact, their impending shortage will mean great economic turmoil among developed nations which rely upon high energy use. Those who possess these fuels will obviously want to take what economic benefit they can obtain from them. I am sure that all honourable senators and all members of parliament would want to see more effort put into the investigation and development of yield of energy from solar sources. I believe that the debate has shown and that the report of the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources on solar energy has shown the need for the Australian Government to develop an integrated and coherent energy policy. This is one of the great challenges that stands before the Australian administration at this time. 
I only want to say a few brief words in relation to this debate and the development of solar energy. If the issue is mishandled, the public can be led to expect too much from the future prospects of solar energy. As most rational people and most people involved in research would understand, solar energy cannot provide the major component of our energy needs in the foreseeable future. It can provide a very significant amount in lower grade energy needs, out it is wrong to hold out to a public that is becoming more and more aware of the impending crisis that solar energy is an alternative to major development of such energy sources as atomic energy. It is not an alternative to atomic energy and should never be held out as such. It is an adjunct, one of the many spheres which in the future will add to our energy resources or the more economical use of what we have in other fields. 
In this regard, in this debate and in debate generally I believe there has been far too little emphasis on the private development involved in solar energy, not only in the sale of products which can produce that energy for the home user or hopefully for industry now or in the future but also in the actual development of techniques. I have a friend in South Australia who has been successful in developing quite a significant and novel idea in relation to solar energy. It has been taken up from a small works to a larger works and is being developed further. I believe that in the last several weeks some publicity has been given to three major Australian companies which have combined in a research effort. I think Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd is one of these companies. I do not retain the identity of the other two, but they are significant Australian companies. These three companies together have developed what is now said to be a most significant improvement in the collection and supply of solar energy. It must be remembered that this is specifically in the sphere of private industry. Whilst I wholeheartedly commend without reservation those spheres of development which are funded by government, I think it is wrong in this debate to proceed as if we do not acknowledge the contribution which is being made by Australian private firms and Australian individuals without the support which is being demanded in this debate. 
My plea is that in considering the totality of experimentation and development of this most important energy source in Australia we do not forget the other side of the question and that in looking at support systems we do not fail to sup- port those in private industry who are doing their b it, and doing it successfully, in the development of solar energy. After all, beyond the perhaps limited and narrow parameters of research, the market place is a very good testing point of whether solar energy will be applicable to the commercial and domestic scene. I specifically mention the market place because it is here that the Government can provide a kind of support that I mentioned in a question that I asked of the relevant Minister in the Senate last week in relation to taxation concessions for the development and installation of solar units. 
We should look not just at the research effort of the United States of America, as great as it is and commendable as it is, but also at the taxation attitudes of state governments and the Congress in the United States. They are actively encouraging on a fairly comprehensive basis the installation of solar energy units by applying direct tax concessions. I think we should move rapidly into consideration and implementation of such measures. In addition to simple tax concessions in that sphere, the United States Government is involved in great many areas of support of solar energy on a wider basis than probably has been mentioned in this debate. Solar energy is not something new. It stands behind all the fossil fuels we use today. We are talking about the use of solar energy in the modern sense of an instantaneous attainment of that usage from direct sunlight, but everyone who uses coal or petroleum should know that he is using solar energy in its stored form. 
I make a plea on only two points in my small contribution to this debate. Firstly, I ask that we not forget to encourage the private development of solar energy, which is quite available and quite patent in this community. Secondly, I make a plea for the Government to be far ranging in its attitudes and to introduce tax concessions for solar energy installations and, further, for the saving of energy in general, as does the United States Government. 
I welcome the opportunity granted by the debate on the first reading of this Bill to say several things about the economy and particularly to relate my remarks to South Australia and a district in which I am interested. I refer to the Federal electorate of Hawker, yet to be confirmed in its new character by the presentation of the final electoral boundaries. 
-Senator McLaren has previously accused me of speaking with a deliberate interest in a candidature in Hawker. I am pleased to admit that I am guilty of that. I have a very direct interest in the new seat of Hawker and welcome any assertion of that fact by  Senator McLaren  in this or any other debate. South Australia is particularly influenced by current events in the economy and in this political community. The seat of Hawker in particular, covering one-eighth of the city of Adelaide, represents a very important part of South Australia. I have taken the trouble to find out the effects of current events among certain sections of that community. Particularly I have looked at this district to see what it encompasses in terms of personal areas of endeavour. I have had an interesting time looking at the statistics of the seat of Hawker which, as I have said, is a typical area in South Australia- I suppose it could be termed an inner metropolitan district in a sense- to assess its constitution, to see the type of people who live there and the way in which they are affected. 
In starting this assessment, I looked at the components of employment there according to the 1971 Census. I know that that Census is removed in time by about six years, but its figures are the best we can obtain until the figures of the newer Census are thoroughly dissected and are available to the public and to members of parliament. I have been interested in looking at these figures, which no doubt still give a worthwhile comparison of the types of employment engaged in by the residents of that area. I have found that within the seat of Hawker 5,330 people, according to the 1971 Census, were engaged in professional and semi-professional pursuits. I feel that this is a relatively large number of people who have taken the trouble to educate themselves, to follow a distinct line of development in their personal application and to engage in a service area to the community based on the skills which they have attained. 
I found also that the significant number of 3,545 people are employers, managers and selfemployed people. I found this number surprisingly high but again representative of a district which is involved in so much endeavour in the commercial and industrial sphere. In the clerical sphere, I found the largest number of people engaged in a conglomerate relating to a single type of activity. In that particular calling at the time of that Census in the seat of Hawker, as ascertained by the new boundaries, 9,700 people would have been involved. Commercial agents and others who serve industry by selling and who are virtually the eyes in the extension of activity in the sales areas- the people who make industry work by setting up their goods before the community- numbered 1,020 people. Proprietors, shopkeepers and their assistants totalled 3,700. Drivers and transport workers totalled 1,440 individuals. The Austraiian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission have 660 people employed in that particular service to the community. 
Metal trades and electrical trades activitiesan area which would be vitally affected by such large industries as Chrysler Australia, Uniroyal, Hills Industries and so on- are a very large employing area with just under 7,000 people engaged in those activities. The building trades too were important with 2,675 people. The printing industry carried 477 employees; food processors totalled 667 people; and rubber workers, concrete workers and plastic workers involved in the processing industry in a general aggregate term totalled 639 people. Just over 1,000 people were engaged as storemen. Labourers totalled 1,159. Firemen and police accounted for 423 people and 1,142 people are employed as cooks, maids and housekeepers. There are 390 people in the armed services, with the two Army establishments, one at Keswick and one at Warradale. Of course, there is a host of smaller groups of employees which are important but which do not aggregate to the numbers I have mentioned. On looking at this district, I thought how representative those employee categories were to the general endeavour of South Australians and Australians in general. I thought: Here is indeed a representative area of what one might term, in a very wide sense, the average Australian'. 
In considering the problems in which people are involved and the challenges which face them, I looked also at the current list of unemployed people in this new seat of Hawker. There are two wide categories given- those people 20 years of age and under and those people over 20 years of age who are currently registered for employment at the three offices of Edwardstown, Unley and Glenelg, within the new seat of Hawker. In the first category, 20 years of age and under, 926 males and 780 females were seeking employment. In the second category, those people aged 21 years and over, 1,955 males and 485 females within that community were looking for work. These figures give some indication of the problems in this area and indicates, in some measure, that the seat carries what I suppose would be close to the national average percentage of unemployed- of those people in the community who are looking for jobs and are finding all the difficulties which go with seeking jobs for the first time, a second or a third time or whatever, according to their particular application. 
I looked at another group of figures which gives a further insight into the composition of a community which, as I said, constitutes oneeighth of metropolitan Adelaide with between 70,000 and 80,000 people. I looked at the figures for the people within the seat of Hawker who had birthplaces overseas. I found this an interesting study. Of the people born overseas, 11,290 were born in the United Kingdom and Ireland; 1 ,288 were born in Germany, 1 ,749 were born in Greece, 1,611 were born in Italy, 1,088 were born in The Netherlands; 737 were born in Yugoslavia; 656 were born in Poland; 1,092 were born in Asia in general; 472 were born in Africa in general; 292, of whom many must have migrated a considerable number of years ago, were born in the United Soviet Socialist Republics; and 298 were born in Hungary. Approximately 20,000 people in the district were born overseas. As I have said, when one looks at that community, which is a representative area of South Australia, one sees all sorts of challenges with a particular job to be done by governments in assessing the needs of these people and in providing services and a particular job to be done by the community in general to make society work in that area. 
Having studied those figures, which I have read out, for those categories of employment, there is no doubt that that district is orientated very much to secondary industry and to the commercial field. The future of the people who live in this area is bound up with the manufacture of cars, the building of houses and the furnishing and fitting of homes. It is bound up with so many dozens and probably hundreds of small businesses which depend upon the economic health and the economic climate of this community. Large industrial enterprises have spread there from the rest of Australia and there are small commercial services there which are so important in providing employment in our society. It is interesting to note that most of the markets which these people supply are within the home market. This community is not a great venturesome supplier of export markets; it supplies basically a home market, which is affected so dramatically by internal factors in this community. 
In looking at these figures, I could not help but think how deeply affected this community is by inflation. The rate of inflation has destroyed the expectations which people had in the past to quietly and confidently enjoy the security of a long-term job and the hopes of their children to partake in job opportunities in our community. As we look at this situation in the political sense there is no doubt that one must go back to the disruptions, which have caused so much lack of opportunity in this area, and which stand behind those unemployment figures which I have given. There is human tragedy in people wanting work and not being able to obtain it. 
I could not help but look, as I did this afternoon, at some of the remarks which were made recently by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  on  Monday Conference.  I read at page 20 of the transcript which is available in the li brary one of the excerpts which puts the current view of the Leader of the Opposition as to the past and present involvement of himself and his Government in relation to our current difficulties. In answer to a question which was generally involved with inflation the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  on  Monday Conference  on 19 September last said: 
When we came in - 
The Leader of the Opposition was referring to his advent to government in 1972 - the place was awash with overseas speculative funds and there had been an inflationary Budget, Billy Sneddon's Budget under Billy McMahon, I mean that was the biggest origin of our economic troubles in Australia. We inherited an inflationary situation. 
The last sentence is the crucial one in a major sense.  Mr Whitlam  claimed that the problems of his Government were due to the fact that he inherited an inflationary situation. In another excerpt from this interview he went on to say: 
Well by 1975 we had sorted that out very well. You're referring to the factthat I quoted, in particular, the inadequate, the faulty advice that we got in about September 1973 about the credit squeeze- it was too late in being introduced and it was continued too long, until September 1974, well it was top assistant advice and I asked them to look at it again in April 1974 and they said, No, it's right, and they placated my qualms at that stage, but that is you do know that they are fallible. 
Of course every Minister and every government under the Westminster system know that they take full and final responsibility for the actions of their governments. It is unthinkable to blame one 's advisers in the forum of Parliament. That is simply not the way in which the British system of government is conducted. But the essence of  Mr Whitlam  's statements, of which there are many, is that he claims he inherited an inflationary situation. He proceeded to increase Commonwealth Government expenditure at a rate which was unheard of at the time of the establishment of the Commonwealth Parliament. On the basis of a claim that this inflationary situation was one which he had inherited, he increased at the top of his Budget extravagances annual Commonwealth expenditure by over 40 per cent in one year. I have never known such an admission of guilt as that made by the Leader of the Opposition on that program. He saw the fire and he poured petrol on it. In simple terms, that is what h e did to the economy. 
We know, as  Senator Button  would know, the incredible progression of Treasurers from  Mr Crean  to  Dr Cairns  to  Mr Hayden. 
-I do not intend to be side-tracked on a number of issues. The fact is that we had three Treasurers deliver three Budgets into which were built the most expensive expenditures in the history of the Commonwealth in an admitted inflationary situation. We find, whether we like it or not and whether the Australian Labor Party likes it or not, that the inflationary basis about which we complain now was clearly started by the Labor Party when in government. When I look back at  Mr Whitlam  's remarks I cannot but conjecture at how mistaken the Labor Party was in so many of its actions. One situation in South Australia tells its own story. We had the project of Monarto which was supposed to take the overflow of Adelaide's population. The Commonwealth Labor Government in concert with the State Labor Government poured millions upon millions of dollars into the project of Monarto on the basis that South Australia's population would increase at a most remarkable rate, as would the population generally across Australia. It took another report, presented by Professor Borrie, to remind the Labor Government that its general assessment of Australia's population growth was absolutely wrong. The assessment was simply falsely based. The latest projection for Australia's growth is that by the year 2000 we expect to have 16 million people. Millions upon millions of dollars were poured into the empty paddocks of Monarto because of a fictitious figure of Labor's expectation of growth in South Australia and across this nation. 
-Senator Messner has said that it may be an environmental masterpiece. I think the greatest fault of those Labor Governments was that they had in prospect the building of a very large city on the banks of Adelaide's water supply. No expert has ever been able to answer what effect that would have had but it would have utterly destroyed the quality of Adelaide's basic water resource. But never mind that: At least it is not proceeding. It represents a monument to the folly of State and Federal Labor. It stands as a monument to the failure of planning over three years by Labor in office in the Commonwealth Parliament. However, I do not want to dwell on this matter. 
I think  Mr Whitlam  has fully explained himself. He took what he assessed as an inflationary situation and made it much more inflationary by deliberate financial action. An incoming Liberal Party Government had no alternative but to reverse the expenditures of Labor in the Federal Budget. There is no way that this economy can succeed in the future until the rate of inflation is significantly reduced to a stage where it can be seen that profits are not to be made out of an inflationary expectation. That was the position that confronted the incoming government. To reduce the rate of inflation there had to be a great reduction, relatively, in Commonwealth Government expenditure. This was one of the great burdens of the incoming Federal Liberal Government. 
-Only one of the many burdens bequeathed to it, but the major burden that devolved upon this Government. It has been a burden which I believe it has accepted with a great deal of courage. I believed at one stage that the Government was faltering in facing that burden in that we had a devaluation and no additional attention to tariff protection. At that stage I thought that perhaps the Government was faltering in its drive. But the subsequent result of the financial record has been that the Government has courageously centred on and stuck to its policy of reducing inflation. The current decision of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in Victoria relative to the servants of the State Electricity Commission in Victoria evidences the maintenance of the desire and aim of the Conciliation to reduce inflation in this country. 
-I am pleased that  Senator Cavanagh  also is aware of the situation in Hawker. As I have said, by restoring stability in this community and by restoring employment in this community we will ensure that the rate of inflation is reduced, and that is being accomplished- more slowly than we would like, but it is being accomplished. Secondly, another vital need is required to restore the health of this economic community and that is union cooperation in restoring jobs in this community and in maintaining those jobs. 
In looking at the seat of Hawker, I remind  Senator McLaren,  I recall the tremendous involvement of commerce and industry in the creation of immediate employment prospects. 
I cannot help but ask: Why is it that the union movement will not provide the co-operation that is required to employ members of the union movement in other industries? It is well known that South Australia is at the mercy of those who can cut off fuel at Port Stanvac simply by a decision of a union secretary. How often has South Australia stood aghast at the prospects of its petroleum supplies being cut off at the whim of one union? Today there are people unemployed in the district of Hawker because of the decision by shop stewards in the Latrobe Valley. That is the prospect in that district. What are the unions going to go in relation to co-operation to bring about economic health for this sort of community in Australia and particularly in South Australia? In making that assessment of the ethnic community in this district and of the categories of employment of those who are now unemployed, and in looking at the economic problems of this community I certainly make the assertion that Hawker will not be served in the future by a Whitlam government.  (Quorum formed).  I was about to finish my speech when  Senator Georges  called attention to the state of the House. 
In answer to  Senator Cavanagh  who asks whether I have won any votes, I do not make any such claim this evening. I can say that  Mr Whitlam  has lost a good deal of votes for the Labor Party and I have given some of the reasons in, I admit, a rather casual assessment of the situation. But to use  Mr Whitlam  's own words, I have given reasons why the district of Hawker, because its fortunes are so deeply connected with commerce and industry, can never prosper while it is being governed by a Whitlam-Labor administration. I must say that the Whitlam Government and the Labor Party today stand discredited on their record. The record of the Labor Party is best enunciated by its leader who, as I said earlier, claimed that he came to office in a highly inflationary situation and then started to build on it in a very extreme way. 
The Labor Party of course is deeply inhibited by its origins, and the dispute in Victoria today illustrates how deeply the Labor Party is divided because it is built on industrial labour. It is in fact the political arm of industrial labour and therefore it is divided in the sense that it cannot face the people and provide a coherent policy to meet the challenge of renegades who will stand against most of Australia to achieve their own selfish aims. The Labor Party is unable to speak in this or in any other place in a united fashion because it is but a political arm of industrial labour, and industrial labour is divided, disunited and inhibited by the base which it puts in this place. But of course, beyond all else, the Labor Party is impotent because of its decaying leadership. Recently we have heard the question asked: Who will lead the Labor Party at the next election. If there is to be a December election it is to be  Mr Whitlam.  If there is to be a May election, who is it to be? It might be  Mr Hayden  or  Mr Whitlam.  If the election is to be held in November of next year, is it going to be  Mr Hawke  or is it going to be  Mr Dunstan?  Who will lead the Labor Party a year hence? The Labor Party is discredited by its record, inhibited by its origins and impotent under its decaying leadership. 
I address a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is the Minister aware that the Royal Commissioner,  Mr Justice  Woodward, of the New South Wales Royal Commission into Drug Trafficking is reported to have said yesterday: 
I have had discussions with the Commonwealth and I have heard nothing since and I understand the Premier  (Mr Wran)  has heard nothing. If my expectations for the future are measured by the past, we might as well forget them and get on with the inquiry. I hope that does not come to pass. 
Will the Minister inquire whether any Commonwealth authorities have refused to co-operate with the Commission? If that has been the situation, will he take action to see that they give proper assistance in the future? 
-The people of Australia will be extremely interested to know that the Opposition is conducting what amounts to a filibuster to prevent one of the most urgent matters coming up tomorrow to be discussed here. That matter applies to the crippling strike in Victoria. 
I am doing nothing more than taking the words of the Opposition. It has said that it will not have time to study an important Bill which is coming into the Senate. There is no misconstruction put on the words of honourable senators opposite. It is a claim which the Opposition has clearly made. It became ap- parent early this afternoon that the Opposition ad one thing in mind. It is deliberately working against the people of Australia- all of themwho are dependent on urgent legislation which is coming into the Parliament. I believe, of course, that a factor in this matter relates to the thinking of the Opposition which is unable to face up to a number of questions, especially when they relate to industrial matters. 
One wonders why the Opposition, if it disclaims any interest in something else which is to come before the Senate, wishes to hold up the Nitrogenous Fertilizers Subsidy Amendment Bill which affects growers in Queensland and New South Wales. The Opposition cannot have it both ways. Either it is deliberately working against the assistance which this subsidy will provide or it is doing the former thing which I mentioned. It is one or the other. There are no two ways.  Senator Georges,  whilst he was rambling, repetitive and irrelevant was somewhat honest in his attitude. He made no pretence about what he was trying to do. He is simply using this situation as a device to hold up the passage of further legislation. I suppose there is little one can say and still keep to the Standing Orders. Very few honourable senators who have spoken so far have kept to the Standing Orders. It is difficult, therefore, to answer their irrelevancies except to say that the people of Australia will be interested to know that the people who are to get the subsidy will have the subsidy delayed in some way or that further legislation in which people are interested is causing such acute embarrassment to the Australian Labor Party in some way that it would like to put off even thinking of making a decision on that legislation. 
I believe that honourable senators opposite should rethink their course at this time. It illbecomes  Senator O  'Byrne to jump into the breach and join his colleagues in a delaying action which does no credit to the Labor Party. I suggest that  Senator 0  'Byrne would do much better to consider the essentials which are facing Australia at the moment. He would do much better to consider his electors and constituents and their concern in the community. He should facilitate discussion in the Senate and not hold it up by irrelevancies. 
-There were a number of points on which I was misquoted or misunderstood. Firstly,  Senator McLaren  said that I sat here in opposition to the parties with which I now sit. The facts of the matter are that I have sat always on the side on which those parties have sat. I have not sat on any other side in this House, and in proof of the direction of politics I then followed I draw to  Senator McLaren's  attention the fact that the Liberal Movement, now out of existence, on every occasion on which an election was held, State or Federal, directed its first preferences to the Liberal Party. For  Senator McLaren's  benefit, I believe that that explanation will prove entirely false his claim that I sat here in opposition to the parties now on this side of the chamber. 
Secondly,  Senator McLaren  made the point about the city of Monarto that its siting on the planned area adjacent to the River Murray could have no effect on the quality of the water drawn to supply Adelaide. The fact is that in 1967 - 
I suggest that I am putting the facts correctly. In 1967 the River Murray ceased to flow. At Murray Bridge, in that area of the river from which the two sources of water are drawn for Adelaide, the river level fell. In fact there was an intermingling of the water upstream so that any effect anywhere in the lock containment affected the totality of the water quality in that part of the river. I will not develop that further. I believe that it fully explains my claim that water drainage from the proposed city of Monarto, either from the surface or underneath the surface, would contaminate in some conditions of the river the significant supplies of water that supply Adelaide. 
Thirdly, I understand that  Senator McLaren  said that in my remarks in relation to the electorate of Hawker, for which I am a candidate, I was using British migrants, or at least I was bashing them. He made a derogatory remark about the attention I gave last night in this debate to British migrants. The facts are that I quoted the very large number of people in the electorate of Hawker who were born in Britain on the basis of concern for their welfare, and in no way was I criticising them. My concern was based on the fact that their standard of living has been seriously depressed by the previous Whitlam 
Labor Government, and that was the particular reason I rose in the debate. 
If I take a little longer it is simply because of the very extensive quotations  Senator McLaren  made from my previous remarks in this place. The fourth point on which I was seriously misunderstood and misrepresented concerns the election of  Mr Millhouse  for the State electorate of Mitcham at the last State election. It is true that  Mr Millhouse  and I are now on opposite sides of the political spectrum, if one can consider that to be in the non-Labor sense. However, it is not true, and it is divisive to say so, that I used the utmost of my endeavours to defeat  Mr Millhouse.  I attended one of his campaign functions and no other. It was the Labor Party which elected  Mr Millhouse  with its preferences. 
The fifth point on which I have been misrepresented concerns a quite serious matter to which  Senator McLaren  referred about remarks I made in the House of Assembly in South Australia about an accounting firm, one of the principals of which is the honourable member for Adelaide,  Mr Hurford. Senator McLaren  said that I made serious and defamatory charges against that gentleman through my criticism of his firm. The facts of that matter are that the firm was the auditor of a union in South Australia whose accounts were subject to very serious embezzlement of funds. That embezzlement was not found by the auditors, and that was the subject of my criticism at the time. 

 Senator McLAREN (South Australia)-Mr  President,  under Standing Order 410 I claim to have been misrepresented by  Senator Hall.  In his explanation claiming that he was misrepresented, he has misrepresented me. At no stage in my remarks did I say that  Senator Hall  was a member of the Opposition. I said that he sat on the cross benches of this House and supported the Opposition. As far as migrants are concerned,  Senator Hall  misrepresented me when he said that I said in my remarks today that he was derogatory of migrants in the electorate of Hawker. I did no such thing. I quoted what  Mr Sinclair  had said, and I went on to express the hope that if  Senator Hall  was sincere he would repudiate the remarks made by  Mr Sinclair. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. In view of the claim that the wooden cases containing knocked down components for cars assembled in Australia are dutiable at the same rate as the contents, despite the fact that the cases have no commercial value and must be destroyed after use, and that one assembling company in Australia paid more than $250,000 in duty on boxes in the past 12 months, will the Minister examine the position with a view to removing this impost which it is stated increased the duty on knocked down car components by between 6 per cent and 10 per cent? 
-The most revealing factor to emerge so far in this debate is that  Senator Bishop  and  Senator Brown  have every intention of subverting this legislation should it pass this House today. They intend to go out of this House and work against a properly passed piece of legislation which has been deliberated on by two Houses of Parliament. 
If the word 'subvert' offends  Senator Bishop  I withdraw it. All I can say is that he does not therefore know the meaning of the words he used in this debate which were simply aimed at conveying to the Senate the meaning that he would make this legislation unworkable. If that is not subverting the legislation in my view, I do not know what is. If the honourable senator objects to my interpretation of his own meaning I withdraw the words I used. Most certainly the meaning that has been conveyed by  Senator Bishop  and  Senator Brown  is that they will move out against this legislation. That means they will join the sort of threat that is given by  Mr Hawke  who was given in today's  Age  this headline: 'Unions threaten walkout. Hawke hits IRB bill'. Once again we wonder who governs Australia. So the Labor Party will not co-operate with a properly passed and properly considered piece of legislation. Members of the Labor Party will use the politics of  Dr Cairns  who says that he does not believe in the finality of Parliament, he believes in the streets. That is the sort of attitude taken here today by honourable senators opposite. 
The basic problem in unionism in Australia today is that the union management has lost control of the unions. The power to represent unions so often no longer resides at the top of the union structure. It has been taken over by shop stewards. This is the basic problem in the economy and in the industrial front today. Who speaks for the union movement? Not the elected leaders, however the election may be made; certainly not the elected leaders in relation to the strike in Victoria. It is the shop stewards in the Latrobe Valley in defiance of their own union leaders. What does the Labor Party say about the challenge to the very authority of the people who sustain it here? What does  Mr Hawke-  the death-knock doctor-do? He comes in at the end of every industrial dispute and then claims the salvation of the dispute and says that he solved it. What does he do to prevent disputes at the beginning? What does he do to put the management of unions back where it ought to be- at the elected management level of the union structure? He does not use the needle to immunise against trouble. He simply uses the axe to clout people at the end of disputes so that he can have his own glory. What sort of glory is it? I refer to the Adelaide  Advertiser  of Wednesday. On the front page, below a fairly comprehensive report of the situation in Victoria this headline appears:  "Bastards" says Hawke of Bench.' This is the famous  Mr Hawke. 
-This is what the report states: 
The ACTU  President (Mr Hawke)  last night described the three-man Full Bench that rejected the power workers pay claims as 'those pack of bastards'. 
This is the sort of man that the Opposition today defends. This is the man who apparently is the salvation of the Australian industrial scene. I say: What humbug! What rubbish! The man simply plays with the Australian industrial community. He comes in at the death-knock on every occasion to claim victory. It is a facade. Opposition senators know very well that it is a facade. 
Let me examine the matter of contention at the moment- the destructive and wilfully harmful dispute in the Latrobe Valley. A report by  Mr Claude  Forell in the  Age  I think of yesterday, had this to say: 
It may also be significant- even though it has become unfashionable these days to say so- that  Mr Sam  Armstrong, the ringleader in this affair, is a member of the Communist Party of Australia. 
His activities in the Latrobe Valley should remind us of the purpose of the shop steward movement as denned by the Communist Party's former secretary and theorist, Lance Sharkey. 
The quote attributed to  Mr Sharkey  reads: 
In a revolutionary struggle shop committees would be the chief instruments for drawing the whole of the working class into the fight, into the street and the general revolutionary struggle. 
Let us move on to the  Latrobe Valley Express,  the local newspaper, which deals with this issue in its Letters to the Editor column. One letter written included this excerpt: 
However, on June I S, an organised group calling itself the SEC Latrobe Valley Shop Stewards Committee under the leadership of Amalgamated Metal Workers' Union official S. Armstrong, took it upon itself to call a mass meeting of 
SEC workers in the Latrobe Valley in order to discuss the Log of Claims issue. At this meeting S. Armstrong, after a reprehensible and completely unjustifiable attack on the VTHC, moved a resolution that the Latrobe Valley work force 'go it  alone' in  pursuing a Log of Claims with the SEC. This resolution was narrowly carried. 
The letter, which has other things to say, is signed by G. Kroezen, State  President  and Secretary of the Morwell Sub-Branch, and H. Coffield, Secretary of the Yallourn Sub-Branch. A union out of control, led by communist shop stewards, is holding up half of Australia and causing destruction and poverty to hundreds of thousands of people. Honourable senators opposite defend that. They promise to go out and destroy this legislation. Where do they stand? The great difficulty of Labor, as I have said before in the Parliament and in other places, is its origins. Practically all honourable senators opposite owe their position here to some part of industrial labour. They do not have the courage to say anything that is condemnatory of this disruptive influence. Who of them has said anything? I have listened carefully to the debate. Where has there been any criticism? Apparently these people are blameless. No honourable senator opposite will say a thing. Of course, this goes to show how restricted and impossible is the Labor Party's position from  Mr Hawke  down. As I have illustrated, they have used the axe instead of the preventive medicine of conciliation and reorganisation of the union movement. 
I glanced again at the Bill before us. I notice that honourable senators opposite, even  Senator Button  who, one must concede, knows a great deal about industrial matters, refuse to deal in any sense with the provisions of the Bill. The Labor Party has not explained to the Senate why it opposes this Bill. Nor has it explained for the benefit of anyone in this country who may be listening what is in the Bill that it happens to oppose so strenuously. Perhaps, in the short time available, one should consider some of the subtitles at the side of the clauses in the Bill to see what Labor so vehemently opposes. One subtitle 'Secret ballot may be ordered'. I suppose that the Labor Party opposes this. I remind the Senate that the Labor Party has not proposed any amendments. It has not been through this Bill and selected any one part of it as being desirable. It is opposing every provision in this Bill. It opposes the clause in which a secret ballot may be ordered. 
The Labor Party opposes the clause which makes it an offence to force independent contractors into unions. It therefore supports the naked power of those people in the union movement who will use gangster tactics to force into their organisations independent contractors in this community, who drive cement trucks, brick trucks et cetera that they themselves own. This is a practice which, to my regret, is widespread in my own state of South Australia under the direction of a Labor Government. Honourable senators opposite oppose giving freedom to those who own their own businesses but are bullied by the lowest of tactics into joining a union. Labor also opposes rules to provide for elections, secret ballots and certain other matters. It opposes elections to be held by secret postal ballot. It opposes other clauses concerning the direction for performance of rules. It is anathema to honourable senators opposite that there should be any discipline over the union movement. It was all very well for them to gain support when they were in government, as they gained mine, in introducing restrictive trade practices legislation to ensure that the commercial rules of this country were fair and just. It was all very fine for them to introduce that legislation. Why is it that, having dealt with the business sector, when we look at the other side of commerce and industry, the greatest power groups in the community, to see whether they are fair, it is wrong to ensure that they have fair rules. 
I turn now to the sub-title 'Representation of employees by an organisation'. This again is a move aimed at getting right at the heart of one of the most destructive matters in the Australian community, that is, demarcation disputes. These are the sorts of disputes which left millions of dollars of steel and steel products on the wharves of Port Adelaide unused and rusting for five months. For five long months South Australian industry was at the mercy of warring union factions. Labor apparently stands behind the rules that prod uce that sort of dispute. 
-Senator Bishop has explained enough in this chamber. He should go back to South Australia and explain it to anybody he likes. 

 -For Senator McLaren's benefit, he can explain in the seat of Hawker too, if he likes, why he opposes this legislation in toto. Honourable senators opposite are also against the provisions which provide for democracy in the industrial community by making it an offence to force individuals to join unions. Some people have a conscientious belief which may be well held and well founded. It may happen to be a political belief. The Labor Party does not believe in freeing people from joining a union. They do not believe that the union movement should be competitive and that its leaders should have to look to their laurels and provide an attractive organisation. They believe that unions should attract people by dictatorial methods and union steward dictatorship. That is what the Labor Party believes should rule the industrial community, not the freeing aspects of this legislation. 
Another clause provides that records should be kept by organisations. If I had the time I would read to the chamber a speech I made in the South Australian House of Assembly in 1 974. It would shock even the hardest honourable senator here as to the practices of the Storemen and Packers Union of South Australia prior to 1974. If ever we needed a clean up of the type that this Bill can give there is a visual demonstration in the Storeman and Packers Union and in many other unions. 
I challenge  Senator McLaren  to go anywhere and defend the embezzlement of union funds and the cover up that goes on continually. Union members need to be protected from their crooked leaders in certain instances. 
-Because I do not have time to read it, I refer  Senator McLaren  to page 2163 of the South Australian House of Assembly record of 26 February 1974. He will find there a complete vindication of the remark I have just made. Labor stands against clause 23 of the Bill which deals with records to be kept and filed by organisations. It stands against proposed section 158ac, which deals with the keeping of proper union records. It is against the standards which this Bill applies to the appointment of auditors. Labor is also against the provision for copies of accounts to be supplied to members and presented to meetings. It is against other clauses which deal with union organisations and such matters. It is against the Industrial Registrar making arrangements to conduct elections, as laid down in clause 27. As I said earlier, it is against every single provision that this legislation contains. I suppose that beyond all else it is opposed to the provisions which seek to enable the people to move in the community free of fear and intimidation. It is widely known within the union movement that fear and intimidation affect people. This Bill aims to reduce those factors and hopefully to remove them. Those provisions which prevent unions from bullying people to join them against their will and conviction are no doubt the test of it all. We find that Labor in this place today stands for its base- a union movement that has lost control of its membership, a movement the most visible part of which can generally see success only through dictatorial methods developed over a long time of frightening supervision of its members. In saying that I want to make it clear that I also believe there are many well run unions in this community. 
I will not give any names.  Senator Wriedt  would know that there are a considerable number of well run unions in this country, lt is extremely disappointing that this legislation has to be brought in to deal with a very significant group of unions- but not all unions- which throttle this community by seizing its pressure points and its economic arteries. When we find that power, fuel and transport are held to ransom by a handful of people, this legislation, of course, becomes not only desirable but also absolutely essential. 
I commend this legislation to the House. I decry the fact that the Labor Party has not supported one clause of it. I trust that, because of the discipline contained in this legislation, those who do run the unions responsibly will provide the lead in this community for others who must follow. 

 Senator BISHOP (South Australia)-I claim to have been misrepresented. 
I must raise it at this stage. I refer to the distortions about my attitude to this legislation made by  Senator Hall  during the earlier part of his speech. He also referred to  Senator Brown.  However, I shall content myself with explaining that what he said about me was, I think, quite scurrilous. At no time during my speech did I make it anything else but clear that I oppose the legislation for the reason that sufficient time was not given for the Senate to consider it properly. I referred to three matters in particular. First, I referred to clause 3 which relates to the definition of industrial action. The honourable senator may remember that I mentioned the possibility of railwaymen conducting a safety go-slow. I said that it was quite improper for a union to be deregistered in these circumstances. I also complained that the legislation contained no right of appeal against decisions taken by the registrar in respect of conscientious objection. I also referred to that very poor power of increasing the ability of the court to say who should belong to which union. 
I think I could say as a modest bloke that my record in South Australia, as  Senator Steele  Hall knows quite well, in respect of industrial matters is pretty good. Nobody can charge me with what he alleged in a general way. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is he aware that the South Australian Premier recently has been involved in rehearsing a song and dance act, the principal words of which have a most inflationary aspect? They are: We're just a couple of swells'. Is the Minister also aware that it has been announced today that  Mr Dunstan  and  Mr Hawke  will be prominent actors in Australian Labor Party commercials to be made in the eastern States? Can he provide any form of assistance to these performers to enable them to have the greatest possible exposure before the general public so that we all can see and hear the foremost supporters of compulsory unionism within the Australian Labor Party? 
-In reply to  Senator Walsh,  I should like to quote from an article in the  Age  of 2 1 October by  Mr Kenneth  Davidson, the economics editor, which started with these words: 
The Fraser Government has achieved 'single digit' inflation within a year of a massive devaluation despite predictions by the Treasury, the Reserve Bank (and the author) of an inflation rate in the order of 1 5 per cent for this year. 
This is quite an achievement. It opens up the prospect of less stringent monetary and fiscal policies next year and even the prospect of a further interest rate reduction before December. 
That comment was made by a very astute, I believe, economics writer who in the past has not been noted for favouring the Fraser Government's economics policies. It clearly, against his own forecasts, outlines the success of a policy which has been pursued under a great deal of criticism, especially from the Opposition following on its free-wheeling spending position when in Government, with a great deal of determination. That policy is now providing the first real glimmer of recovery that has been available in the economic community since the three Labor Treasurers dealt their blows to this community whilst the Labor Party was in office between 1972 and 1975. 
I listened with amazement when  Senator Gietzelt  criticised this Government for borrowing $3,000m overseas, as he totalled it, to support the dollar in our trading relationships.  Senator Gietzelt  tended to equate the $3,000m with the $4,000m mentioned in regard to the discredited overseas loans affair. If there is any uncertainty in this community could it have any greater source than that Executive Council meeting at which the then Prime Minister, with his senior Ministers, signed a document to borrow overseas $2,000m for temporary purposes? The great discredit that devolved upon that Whitlam Government was something that all the Senate could see in its examination of the totally indefensible position in which the Government put itself by claiming temporary purposes for a loan which was in prospect to build great and long-term public works in the community? What could be more demoralising than the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  as he then was, having breakfast with dubious charactersand he was spurned by his own party for that action- trying to raise election funds before the 1975 Federal election? If we look for uncertainty we find it in the Labor years from 1972 to 1975. We find there all the causes which Labor so glibly skates around in this debate with the false claims that it makes in attributing the great culmination of inflation and unemployment to this Government when they so clearly began with our predecessors in office- clearly began according to the admission of those who took part in that Government, particularly  Mr Whitlam,  who is now one of the number of people endeavouring to lead the Labor Party. As my leader said in this chamber today, how peculiar it is that  Mr Dunstan  and  Mr Hawke  will be the chief actors in the television series to promote the Labor Party at this supposed Federal election. As I have said here before, who does lead the Labor Party? What greater uncertainty could there be in this community, when one surveys the political scene, than trying to guess who would be the Prime Minister of Australia in the unlikely event that Labor was elected at the next election? 
-Can the honourable senator who interjects tell us clearly and with confidence who would be the Prime Minister after three months or six months in office? 
-Of course he could not when even his spokesman in that election campaign, as  Senator Young  has indicated, may be in the running. Would it be  Mr Hawke?  Would it be  Mr Dunstan?  Would it be  Mr Whitlam?  Would it be  Mr Hayden?  Are there any other contenders? Who will be in the auction? That figure is one of the great uncertainties in Australian politics today. As I said in another debate recently, and I believe it is worth repeating, if we talk about uncertainty, who has built up that uncertainty? Let us go back to  Mr Whitlam  *s statement on  Monday Conference  a few weeks ago when, in referring to 1972, he said: 
When we came in the place was awash with overseas speculative funds and there nad been an inflationary Budget, Billy Snedden 's Budget under Billy McMahon, I mean that was the biggest origin of our economic troubles in Australia. We inherited an inflationary situation. 
Let us look at some of the promises made by the Labor Party in 1972 when it contemplated office. Today I took the trouble to refresh myself by getting a copy of the speech delivered in 1972 by  Mr Whitlam,  who claims- I emphasise the word claims '-at this time to be the Leader of the Labor Party. He said then: 
Do you believe that Australia can alford another three years like the last twenty months? 
He made that claim and then proceeded to lead a Government which had three Treasurers in three years. They brought down supplementary Budgets, and I instance the case of  Mr Crean  who, following a last minute effort at a Caucus meeting which utterly cut to ribbons the Budget which he brought into the House, read a document which made no sense at all because of the deletions that Caucus had demanded of him minutes before he strode into the House to give some economic news of importance to Australians. That is the sort of uncertainty that existed under Labor's management.  Mr Whitlam  's 1972 speech referring to the previous Liberal Government, continued: 
Or to the same men who presided over the worst inflation in twenty years? 
How pale and insignificant does that extremely minor bout of inflation in 1972 look now when compared with the high inflation established by the extravagant three years of Labor in office; an inflation which happily is being brought into rein by the significant and determined policies of the Fraser Government? 
-Senator Bishop would have been interested to hear, and no doubt supported, the economic news of the last week or so that the rate of inflation for the last quarter was down to 2 per cent. How does he reconcile that with his leader's action and the action of the many Labor Treasurers when his party was in office? I refer again to the speech of  1972  and remind honourable senators opposite of what it said: 
We will exert our powers against prices. 
What did Labor do? Do we need to ask the Australian housewife when she goes to the supermarkets and other places where one buys the necessities of life in order to keep a home going? We know, and every person in Australia knows. 
-Absolutely, and people are aware enough of the political consequences of the actions of Treasurers to know that  Mr Crean's  Budget, in which he increased expenditure by such an enormous amount- I think approaching 40 per cent-stands behind the high prices still being paid in the supermarkets today. It is this Government which has brought the first real diminution in the rate of increases in prices in this community.  Mr Whitlam  stated: 
Labor's first priority will be to restore genuine full employment . . . 
Has anyone heard of such an unfulfilled promise as that? When Labor came to office unemployment was an important but minor consideration in the economic community. When we came to office in  1975  it was an extremely major factor in the community, as it is today. The level of unemployment can be reduced only as a consequence of a reduction in the rate of inflation when job opportunities will be created and Australia generally will become more competitive in the manufacturing and service areas. It is the determined attack on unemployment which separates this Government so clearly from its socialist opponents.  Mr Whitlam  in  1972  went on to state: 
It is because of the automatic and inevitable massive growth in Commonwealth revenues that a whole range of Labor proposals denounced and derided by the Liberals for years and years have suddenly become possible . . . 
He went on to emphasise this. Under the heading of taxation he stated: 
The huge and automatic increase in Commonwealth revenue ensures that rates of taxation need not be increased at any level to implement a Labor Government 's program. 
In other words, from a buoyant economy in  1 972  the community was yielding to the Federal Government's immense and rapidly increasing sums in taxation. Labor was content to reap that harvest without returning anything significant to the taxpayers so that Labor could implement its socialist policies. It was a gigantic rip-off. 

 -As Senator Young reminds me, to rip taxpayers off was not sufficient. The Labor Party decided to move beyond that barrier and into a very heavy and significant deficit. It is that deficit which, of course, has basically created the unemployment in the community. The Labor Party simply mortgaged the future. It mortgaged the jobs of Australians by running into consistent and heavy deficits and thereby sending prices rocketing. This destroyed so many industries in their competitiveness in relation to export markets. The great rural industries and the significant industrial sector languish today because of the lack of export markets. They know that the cause resides in the fiscal mismanagement of Labor while in office. I go back to this fabled  1972  Whitlam document. For  Senator Bishop's  benefit I read this.  Mr Whitlam  stated: 
Labor's industrial policy will be: to put conciliation back into arbitration. 
One remembers now how the great union movement of Australia has lost control of the very organisations it represents. The last strike on the Victorian coalfields was caused and maintained by shop stewards in defiance of their own unions. The people who said they would put conciliation back into arbitration are unable to control or assist the very organisations which have put them here. I digress for a minute. Even  Senator Gietzelt  who inadequately moved this motion on behalf of the Australian Labor Party said that the choice in relation to any prospective election was properly between May and December. We are not talking about a separation of a year or  1 8  months between some prospective and improper- by Labor Party definition- date for an election. We are talking about six months. That is all. In regard to whether the election will be in December or six months later, I say to the Labor Party that the only uncertainty and concern which the business community and private individuals who are involved in the situation have is whether Labor will be defeated. That is all those people are worried about. Because of those words which I have read to the Senate, the great fear in the Australian community is not the fear of an election; it is, what I believe is a quite unjustified fear, that Labor might have some chance of winning. That is the fear in the community. As soon as an election is held, whether it be December or May, and the Labor Party is again defeated with the Liberals victorious, there will be no uncertainty in the community because the election itself will remove that fear. With the confidence that the electors whenever they are called upon to make this decision will make the correct decision, I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put. 
I direct my question either to the Minister for Social Security or to the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs. Material put to me by a British born person who has lived in Australia for 30 years indicates that he has for the past two years drawn a British war pension for service in overseas areas and therefore does not receive pension concessions available to his wife, who is drawing an Australian age pension. In view of those circumstances, will the Minister examine this type of disparity with a view to establishing a full availability of such pensioner concessions so that those people receiving British war pensions do not suffer this sort of apparent discrimination? 
During the debate on the motion for the first reading of this money Bill I want to say a few brief words about one of the great problems in Australian national politics today, and that is to find out who and what is the alternative to the present Government. This question has a sense of urgency about it because of the impending election. My mind is drawn to the many contradictions that exist in the ranks of the Opposition. Firstly, who is their leader over any period of time; secondly, and more importantly, who speaks for them in the financial sense and what policy do they present as a party in relation to the guidance of the economy and the effect it has on all Australians? In studying these questions recently and in perusing the reports and statements of the Australian Labor Party in the media, I have been confused, as have been all Australians who take any notice of the statements that come from that party. I want to draw the attention of the Senate to these discrepancies and the divisions within the Labor Party as to where it stands on the important economic issues that are facing Australia. 
I want to quote from a transcript of a television interview given by  Mr E.  G. Whitlam and  Mr Hayden  when they outlined Labor's economic plan on 1 1 August this year. A very illuminating view- it was illuminating then- was presented by  Mr Whitlam  and  Mr Hayden  when they faced Australia, through the media, on that day. Those two gentlemen then gave a most consolidated view to Australia. I would like to quote what these two gentlemen had to say to  Mr Negus,  an interviewer from the television program 'This Day Tonight', as he brought out their various responses to his questions. The transcript, in part, reads as follows: 
Negus: Do you two enjoy this situation, this Hayden/Whitlam team? 

 Mr Whitlam: Yes. 

 Mr Hayden: I think it is a good team. 

 Mr Whitlam: My word. 

 Mr Hayden: We will go a long way together. So will the country with us. 

 Mr Whitlam: And the public will accept that too. 
Negus: Is this a team you might have liked to have had before? 

 Mr Whitlam: Well it's working very well as you can see. 
Negus: Do you see  Mr Hayden  as your heir apparent still? 

 Mr Hayden: Oh, no favourites in my presence! Modesty is always a problem, and I can 't handle it. 

 Mr Whitlam: I give the same answer there as I have for some time. Yes, I do. 
Negus: Do you see that this sort of thing, Whitlam and Hayden and together is going to be something well see for the rest of the year with an election in the year? 

 Mr Whitlam: This isn't the first time that we've . . . we were doing this in the run up to the '72 elections. You remember Bill and I were appearing on sessions such as this on the run up to there. It worked there, it will work in '78 or in '77 when the next elections come. 

 Mr Hayden: I agree. Gough and I have got more in common than we have got cause to disagree about. I would think I would have more in common with Gough than most people in the Caucus. There are other people who would have as much in common with him and accordingly by implication I have as much in common with them as 1 have with Gough but we have a very similar attitude in so many of these things. 
The most recent amplification of this has been the fact that  Mr Whitlam,  a few weeks after this statement was made to the people of Australia, said in response to a question put innocently to him by the media: 'Oh, no,  Mr Hayden  will not be the Treasurer- he will be the Minister for Foreign Affairs'.  Mr Hayden  will be completely removed from this partnership which he so fervently adopted in the interview of 1 1 August. What an astonishing thing it was to all Australians for  Mr Hayden  to be relegated from the economic sphere in which he had been placed by self chosen interest and by  Mr Whitlam  in adopting him as heir apparent. It was astonishing that he should be banished from the economic sphere in which he apparently had expertise. It was a very confusing thing to all Australians. 
I want to quote now from an article headed Hurford, Hayden clash on tax plan' which appeared in the Melbourne  Age  of 19 August. The report carried the dateline Canberra and stated: 
Labor's two economic spokesmen yesterday contradicted each other over the party 's commitment to indexation of personal income tax. 

 -Mr President, I do not intend to be distracted by  Senator McLaren  who apparently seems to be so irate because I am nominating for the seat of Hawker. I invite  Senator McLaren  to come to the Hawker electorate. I am willing to slug it out with him in that electorate any time he likes. I am willing to face him individually on any platform and discuss with him why Labor's policies are of no use in Hawker. The article continued: 
It was one of several examples of confusion and contradiction at a Press conference called by the Opposition Leader,  Mr Whitlam,  the spokesman on economic management,  Mr Hayden,  and the shadow Treasurer,  Mr Hurford,  yesterday. 

 Mr Hayden said the Party had made 'no commitment' on personal tax indexation at this stage. 
We don't intend to- we're the Opposition not the Government. I don't believe that this is the time for us to be making firm commitments',  Mr Hayden  said. 
But  Mr Hurford  admitted in answer to a later question that the Party's national conference last month had endorsed personal tax indexation. 
Questioned about the discrepancy,  Mr Hayden  said that the policy did indicate indexation, but the exact program could be spelled out later. 
The article further stated: 

 Mr Hayden told the Press conference the ALP would not give any commitment on what a Labor Government would do with the new tax scheme until it had thoroughly analysed the effects. 
He said these decisions had to go through the party's committees and Caucus. 
We know what Caucus has done previously about financial commitments. We know that  Mr Crean  had to stride into the House of Representatives with a document that had been prepared for some time but which had been cut to pieces a few minutes before he gave his speech. We know what Caucus can do, and has done, about commitments by the Labor Party. The quote continues: 
  Mr Hurford  appeared to rule out the scheme entirely. He said there was 'no way we'd be adopting the picture shown by further analysis of this Budget- namely that family people are taking the cost of some alleviation from tax given to single people and high income earners'.  Mr Hayden  and  Mr Hurford  also disputed whether certain figures could be calculated. 
That was indeed a picture of sorry disarray in the Labor Party on 19 August 1977. A further report appeared in the Melbourne  Sun  on 20 August, the next day. A number of statements in that report are indicative of the confusion and dispute within the Labor Party in relation to economic management. In that article  Mr Laurie  Oakes, the Canberra correspondent for the  Sun  stated: 
The Federal Opposition Leader,  Mr Whitlam,  his Shadow Treasurer,  Mr Hurford,  and the Opposition spokesman on economic management,  Mr Hayden,  held a Press conference on Thursday. 

 Mr Whitlam told the Press conference that he had pointed out the inconsistencies in the Lynch figures to Sydney radio man John Laws at 9.30 a.m., on Wednesday. 
Further on  Mr Oakes  stated: 
The print media was excluded where possible ...  Mr Whitlam  has reached this juvenile level- or so it appeared from his arrogant dismissal of newspaper political journalists. 
Messrs Whitlam, Hayden and Hurford resembled, not so much the three wise monkeys as Donald Duck's nephewsHuey, Louie and Dewey. 
They gave conflicting answers on such subjects as the ALP's tax policy, and its ability to produce a definitive table on the effect of tax changes. 
More seriously,  Mr Hurford  chose to advocate a snap electionin contradiction of the line being followed by Labor's national secretary,  Mr David  Coombe. 

 Mr Oakes ended his column by saying: 
But it is a safe bet that the Labor Party will never again organise a Press conference with three leading' lights- unless the invitations are clearly marked, 'Disc jockeys only'. 
I suppose that ended a very sorry episode. Those three gentelmen, purportedly representing the Labor Party in Australia, the alternative to the Government, appeared in the media and disagreed vehemently before members of the media and the Australian people to whom they spoke. Further references were made in subsequent media, one in an article headed 'Hayden wants $3.5 billion deficit', and another in an article in which the Treasurer,  Mr Lynch,  clearly answered this disarray by saying:  the Australian Labor Party economic proposals, released yesterday in Sydney, would trigger off a new wave of inflation and push the economy back into the depression created by the Labor Government. 
He said yesterday 's proposals were no different to the previous plan put forward by the Australian Labor Party that  Mr Hurford  had warned would lead ' to further prolonging of inflation'. 
The key point in  Mr Lynch  's statement was this: 
The inevitable result would be higher not lower interest rates. 
If one thinks for a short while about this matter one will realise that the parliamentary leader of the Labor Party some few weeks ago adopted  Mr Hayden  as his heir apparent and his financial expert and adviser. Last week that leader dismissed him from the financial position and relegated him to the more distant field of foreign affairs, which is quite foreign to the previous experience of  Mr Hayden  in parliamentary activities. In so doing he proved that the Labor Party's disarray of August clearly still exists. He isolated  Mr Hurford  as the one person who is to speak for the Labor Party in financial matters. However, under the very great pressure that arose from within his party because of the effect his action was having electorally,  Mr Whitlam  contrived to create a position of economic development in order to regain some of the enormous ground that had been lost by that dismissal of  Mr Hayden.  He brought in  Mr Hayden,  in parallel with  Mr Hurford,  as some sort of supremo of economic development. Yet still  Mr Hayden  and  Mr Hurford  continue to hold the views that they held in August, which are so discordant in relation to what the Labor Party really believes in the area of Australia 's economic management. 
I believe that it is a matter of very serious note that any alternative to this Government is marked by disagreement in the economic sense, which is the prime one in the management of government affairs. We are to have an alternative Treasurer who holds views different from those of the proposed Minister for economic development. I believe that when Australians consider that in relation to the previous record of Labor, they will know that they cannot afford to have division in economic affairs in Australia today. First of all, they cannot risk not knowing who will lead Labor in office, if that should occur, a few weeks or a few months after it achieves office. They cannot know which financial policy Labor would follow, the Hayden line or the Hurford Une. I believe that gives cause for very great disquiet in the argument which is proceeding today, and I put it to the Senate that it is a matter of great importance indeed as we spend these last few days before going out into the electorate. It is up to Labor in this place, as it is in the other place, to clarify its policy and to say clearly whether it is going to follow  Mr Hurford  or  Mr Hayden,  because the views that they have placed before the public in recent weeks are irreconcilable. One or the other must speak for Labor, but not both. I put it to Labor today that it must clear up this position before it can begin to have a coherent debate about the election. I say to  Senator McLaren,  who becomes so moved about this, that I will invite him to the district of Hawker at any time he likes to come to debate either the Hayden plan or the Hurford plan, both of which I believe are faulty for Australia. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources aware of a report this morning that water has now started to flow into the Dartmouth Dam? Does the Minister agree that this is a most significant stage in the construction of the Dartmouth water storage and vindicates the actions of the South Australian Government in the years from 1968 to 1970 in negotiating this project, despite the denigration of and opposition to the project by the South Australian Labor Party? Will the Minister consult his colleague the Minister for National Resources to ascertain the earliest date at which the Dartmouth Dam may be declared operational so that South Australians may plan their State's future with more confidence because of the greatly increased water quota which will be available to their State as a result of the Dartmouth Agreement? 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that  Mr Khemlani  of the loans affairs reputedly stayed at the Gateway Motel in Adelaide from 22 to 30 October this year? As  Mr Khemlani  is reported to have made telephone calls to Canberra, does the Minister believe that there is any possibility that he could be involved in planning the Australian Labor Party's financial policy prior to the election campaign? 
I direct my question to  Senator Carrick  in his capacity as Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. Can the Minister inform me of the additional funds that have been made available to local government in South Australia as a result of the Fraser Government's new and generous attitude to income tax sharing in its federalism policy? How does South Australia's share of revenue supplementation under new federalism compare with the share that has been available to other States? 
