Post-neanderthal, perhaps; homo sapiens, demonstrably never. I am very grateful to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  for his anthropological exercise because if heat and ersatz indignation could be substituted for intellectual preoccupation, the Minister would have made a memorable contribution. Having said that, it is well to get back to our muttons. As a previous  speaker  for the Opposition has said, of all the measures before the Joint Sitting these 2 measures now before us, the Senate (Representation of Territories) Bill and the Representation Bill, are the most important in their future potential to alter the whole framework of this Parliament, of this parliamentary system and, therefore, of the structure of decision making in this country. But they are memorable for something more than that. They are memorable because the Government has produced a hybrid mule of very strange proportions. 
Someone has said that this is a simple measure. A simple measure, yes. What are its three characteristics? They are initially to introduce 2 Senate representatives for each of the Territories, to elect them at House of Representatives elections and, indeed, not to count them in determining the size of the House of Representatives. That is one way of putting it. Let me put it in its hybrid mule characteristics -in its genetic characteristics. Incredibly enough, the Government of the day proposes to create 2 different Senate systems. There are to be 2 different kinds of representatives in the Senate. There are to be senators from the States. There are to be representatives from the Territories; not senators but representatives. There are to be senators from the States elected- the public has voted for this at Senate elections- separately, if necessary, as States and groups of States. There are to be Territorial representatives elected at each House of Representatives election. There are to be senators whose casual vacancies are replaced by a formula set out in the Constitution. There are to be Territorial representatives elected under a formula of by-elections, quite differently. Indeed, it is alleged that they are not to be counted when the Senate is counted in determining the size of the House of Representatives. Why? For all of this, and running through the whole thread of the Government's debate today, there has been one single theme: 'We are going to do this because we have a mandate'. I stress the word 'mandate'. 
I think it was in 1968 that a referendum was held inviting the people of Australia to break the nexus between the Senate and the House of Representatives so that it would not be compulsory in future for the House of Representatives to be as nearly as practicable twice the size of the Senate. The people then said: 'No, the nexus shall stay'. Where is the mandate for a government to come forward and say: 'Nevertheless, although the people have said they want the nexus to remain between the Senate and the House of Representatives, we are going to break it'? Where is the mandate for that? I thought the Government went to the people to seek a mandate for a constitutional reform at the last election to bring the House of Representatives and Senate elections always together compulsorily. Unless I am mistaken, the people said: 'No, they can be and can remain separate'. What is the purpose of this legislation? It is to force the twinning of the elections for Territorial representatives and the House of Representatives. Where is the mandate for that? Long before we venture on this hydrid we should have a policy as to the representation of these Territories in the future as States or as other bodies. 
What possible explanation is there for setting up 2 different types of representatives in the Senate? If the Government were so keen to have referenda why on this important matter of altering the structure of this Parliament did it not go to the people by way of referendum? It must know that there are grave doubts as to the constitutionality of these Territorial representatives. It must know that the earlier sections of the Constitution appear to be in conflict with section 122. Why did it not go to the people on this matter? It went on many other matters and, of course, got an emphatic rejection. I am not arguing that the Territories themselves should not be represented in this Parliament. On the contrary I believe that the right course for this Government and this Parliament to follow is to take this matter to the Constitutional Conventions between the Commonwealth, the States and local government, to invite Territorial representatives to those conventions, and to have protracted discussion on the future nature and structure of the Territories, their movement into full statehood and their representation in this Parliament. 
Why have we not heard of the experience in America concerning representation of Territories? Surely the most important discussions, which are very pertinent to us here, arise out of the discussions regarding the District of Columbiathat is, the Federal State incorporating Washington- and whether it ought to have been represented in the Senate of the Congress of America. Those discussions reached the conclusion that at this stage at least the District of Columbia should not be represented primarily because of the danger inherent in a Public Service State having, perhaps, a balance of power. All these things should have been thought out, discussed and put to the public. What has been put to the public has had an emphatic no- a no which has gone to the heart of these 2 Bills; a no to the methodology of the election of Senate territorial representatives. But nothing like that has happened at all. 
During the course of today we have heard of the obstruction of the Senate. We have had some fascinating confessions. One honourable senator from the Labor Party said that he and the other members of the Labor Party would like to see the Senate abolished because of its wicked obstruction. What we have not heard is  Senator Murphy  stand up here today and recite his credo which he recited virtually every day when he was Leader of the Opposition in the Senate. He then asserted the right to the Senate Opposition to resist and to oppose when it disagreed with measures. He asserted the right of the Opposition in the Senate to refuse supply, to refuse money Bills and to act according to its conscience on any measure. Why is it now, some 2 years removed from that time, that the Senate is suddenly obstructionist? The Leader of the present Government and the Labor Party, when they themselves were in Opposition, saw virtue in the very things that we are now accused of doing. So let us put this aside. No doubt they do not want a House of second thoughts that meets every Wednesday and, of course, is called the Labor Caucus. There is no doubt about that. Of course, the Caucus has second thoughts on everything that its schizophrenic Cabinet may do. That is fully understandable. 
The main thing that the people of Australia should understand is that this sudden discovery that the Senate itself should be abolished is something that is new found. It is true that it has lain inside the Labor Party's platform for years. It is true that members of the Labor Party have said: 'Yes, yes, it is there but we are not going to do it'. It is true that when the members of the Labor Party formed the Senate Opposition they sought to be a vigorous Senate Opposition and they defeated infinitely more Bills than the present Senate Opposition has ever defeated. Their record of rejection of Bills, including money Bills, goes far and away further than any kind of record of the present Senate Opposition. So do not let us have this humbug that suddenly there is opposition in the Senate. 
The Senate itself is performing its constitutional function. Whether the members of the Labor Party like it or not, the Senate itself is inherently inside the Commonwealth Constitution a States House. Let members of the Labor Party go to the people of Tasmania, South Australia and Western Australia- the less populous States- and tell them that the Senate is not a States House and that the senators are not here to rectify the arrogance of the use of numbers in the House of Representatives. Quite clearly the people of the less populous States look to the Senate as a States House to overcome the potential tyranny inherent in the House of Representatives because the more populous States have the numbers in that House. There is a numbers game in which the Government revels now but in respect of which  Senator Murphy  saw more than wicked tyranny in years gone by. I urge that these measures be put aside, that they be taken to the Constitutional Convention, that second thoughts be given to them so that we can move these Territories into full Statehood and real and proper recognition. 
