If there is no strike it is because the Postmaster-General has removed the rubber stamp and is getting ready to put on another one; that is the only reason. If the Government did not endorse the Public Service Board's earlier opposition to negotiation it should say so. If the Government did not endorse the Board's subsequent agreement to grant increases it should say so. If, after the election, the Government did not pressurise the Commission into rubber-stamping the Board's decision it should say so. If the Government is brazen enough to deny that, directly or indirectly, it pressurised the Commission that is its business, but I am one of those people who agree with the many thousands of professional men who will not accept the Government's denial. I wish to quote what  Mr Jack  Michael, the General  President  of the Association of Professional Engineers, had to say about this matter. He is a very responsible person. He would not lightly make such a statement. I quote only a portion of his letter. He said: 
Many of our members believe that the Commission was influenced by the Federal Government policies, as expressed by the Board, which after all was only one respondent in the case. If there is even the slightest reason to suspect the judicial independence of the Commission, this is very serious indeed. 
He went on to say:   . . the very low amounts awarded are all such as to constitute a direct incitement to militancy by this Association, which has always been noted for its responsible and temperate approach in its industrial policies. Indeed, many members are saying that the Commission has taken advantage of such policies, and that' there appears to be no room for temperate and responsible policies if justice is to be achieved before the Commission. 
I believe that a powerful case can be made out for many amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and the Public Service Arbitration Act, but perhaps the most urgent amendment is one which will discourage delaying tactics on the part of employers by providing that wage claims which are not settled within 90 days from the date on which the claim is filed shall, if partly or fully granted, be made to operate retrospectively to the date of the application. That is the only way it can be done. The future of conciliation and arbitration in this country is in the balance. I do not want to see it destroyed, but the Government, by its interference in the proper functioning of conciliation and arbitration, is rapidly destroying the system. Once the workers lose faith in the integrity of the arbitration system they cannot expect any of their associations to accept the decisions of the arbitration tribunals. 
The Government is making it plain to anybody who cares to examine the actions of the Commission and the Public Service 
Arbitrator and his deputy that the Commission and the arbitrators have become mere rubber stamps or public servants of the Commonwealth Government. Can anyone imagine the Leader of the Australian Labor Party using the kind of influence which appears to have been used in this case? Of course not. Imagine a Labor government going to an industrial ' tribunal 
Has the Attention of the Minister for Labour and National Service been directed to a ministerial statement by his predecessor published in his Department's official 'Industrial Information Bulletin' in which the present Treasurer, commenting on the 1967 metal trades decision of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, said that the Commission had 'disregarded the most elementary workings of the Australian labour market'; that it had fixed rates without any detailed examination'; that it bad side-stepped its responsibility, and that the issues were too vital for Australia's economic development and future for him to remain silent. Does the Minister agree that his predecessor made a correct assessment of the manner in which the members of the Commission had, on that occasion, discharged their responsibilities of office? If so, does he believe that he acted correctly in refusing to remain silent in the face of the Commission's disregard for relevant factors and its action in side-stepping its responsibility? 
I am glad to hear from the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  the reasons why there has been no charge laid against Wilfred Burchett. I can see quite clearly from what the Attorney-General has said that a charge of treason could not possibly succeed because at the time of the alleged offence - as he so clearly stated - there was no breach of the law. It has always been a bad principle for a government to make laws retroactive. We have never said: 'From now on it shall be an offence to wear horn rimmed glasses and anyone who has worn horn rimmed glasses at any time during the past 10 years shall now be guilty of an offence because he will have committed a breach of the law.' Looking back on the wartime period we would be shocked if somebody said now that it was an offence to buy a pair of socks without a clothing coupon to match the value of the pair of socks; yet there was a time when it was an offence to buy a pair of socks in this country without a clothing coupon to match their value. This is what we have to remember. 
The very reason that laws are not made retroactive is because we have no guarantee that a person who commits an act would have committed the act in question at that time had it been an offence against the law of the land at the time he committed the act. Let me put it this way: How can we aver that Wilfred Burchett would have done these things if it had been at that time a breach of the law of the Commonwealth to do them? But the AttorneyGeneral tackled this question in the correct manner by discussing the law rather than the political implications and the political backwash of the thing. Obviously the man did not commit a breach of the law of the Commonwealth at the time, and we have no guarantee that if it had been an offence against the law of the Commonwealth then he would have acted as he did. 
The only other thing that I want to refer to is that the Attorney-General said that the Opposition opposed the 1960 amendment to the Crimes Act which made the offence of which Burchett has been accused an offence against the law of the Commonwealth. He was correct when he said that until that stage it was not an offence and anybody could do it without being accused or without being found guilty of any breach of the law. We did oppose it, but we did not oppose it for the reasons that were suggested by the Attorney-General. We opposed it for several reasons, and it will not take me long to explain to the Parliament why we opposed it. 
First of all, let me begin by saying that the penalty for treason under the 1960 amendment - as indeed it may have been prior to I960 - was death. That is the penalty which was imposed. That was the sort of law that the Parliament was then enacting. The Opposition felt at that time that, when a law required that a person found guilty of the offence should be liable to the supreme penalty of death, the person accused of an offence under that law should have a proper opportunity to defend himself against the charge. We felt that the law which was proposed at that time and which was then enacted went too far when it said that treason was not only the offence of killing the sovereign, killing the eldest son of the sovereign or levying war against the Commonwealth, but also included assisting by any means whatever, with the intent to assist, an enemy:  specified by proclamation made for the purpose of this paragraph to be an enemy at war with the Commonwealth. 
When we turn to the proclamation we find that a proclaimed enemy for this purpose means an enemy of and at war with a proclaimed country. The definition of 'proclaimed country' is: 
. a country specified by proclamation to be, for the purposes of this definition a proclaimed country . . . 
Let me show how the provisions could operate and the reason that we opposed them. If India were to declare war on America, or vice versa, and Australia declared America to be a proclaimed country, anybody who sought to support India, a member of the British Commonwealth, would be immediately commiting an offence against the Act and would, if found guilty, be guilty of treason and could be executed for the offence. It is for that reason that we opposed the amendments. The amendments were wrong then and they are wrong now and ought to be struck out as soon as we have in power a government which has any repect for the rights of the citizens of this country. 
I conclude by referring to another point. The pride that a person has in being a national of any country springs from the privileges that go with being a national of that country. I am proud of Australia, only to the extent that it is entitled to demand my pride. If I live in a country that gives me no right at all. a country that treats me as a serf or a slave, I cannot possibly engender within my being the same pride as I can as a member of a country which gives me the rights that belong to every free human being. I want to tell the world that I am proud of it because Australia is one of the countries that gives to every person born in it the right to come and go as he pleases. It is because my country gives me rights which some other countries do not give to me that makes me proud to be an Australian. One of the vital tests that has to be applied is one's right to a passport. I now wonder whether I am a citizen of a country that gives me the kind of citizenship rights that any proud free man is entitled to expect from the country of his birth. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 12.15 a.m. (Friday) 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What did he mean when, following 1967 Metal Trades Case, he said that the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission had sidestepped its responsibilities and that its decision to grant the union's claim in that case could be a calamitous conclusion with lasting consequences for the economy. 
I ask the Treasurer a question supplementary to that asked by the Leader of the Opposition, ls it not a fact that increased prices are the real cause of the overheated economy, leading to inflationary trends and resulting in the inevitable reduction of the purchasing power of wages and salaries? In these circumstances is it not understandable that the Australian Council of Trade Unions is under pressure to support strike action as a means of preventing unwarranted and arbitrary increases in prices? How does the Treasurer justify the Commonwealth's action of telling the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to control the price of labour while the Government takes no action to prevent the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, the oil companies, the motor car industry and similar monopolies from arbitrarily increasing the prices of their products at a time when they are already making enormous profits? Is it not a fact that increases in wages and salaries invariably follow rather than precede increases in prices? Tn view of the Government's failure to take action to control prices will the Treasurer say what alternative is open to the trade union movement other than to resort to strike action as a means of preventing unjustified price increases from further eroding living standards and thus exacerbating the already justifiable cause of industrial discontent? 
 I rise only to pay tribute to the memory of Miss Doris Taylor. I knew Miss Taylor for more than 20 years. She was a magnificent woman. She was injured in am accident whilst playing as a young girl of 7 years of age. She became completely paralysed and thereafter was not able to walk, play or move at all. She had the disadvantage of knowing what it was like tobe able to play, run and frolic. She knew the disabilities associated with losing that: capacity. She was a highly intelligent and well educated woman. One might say that to some extent she was self taught becauseshe was a well read woman. She was active in the Australian Labor Party, but I shall not enlarge upon that tonight because this, is not an occasion on which to make political capital out of a matter like this. She severed her active association with the Labor Party when she came to the conclusion, as she reported in one of her reports, that this sort of work was something that was above party politics and that to try to drag politics into this kind of work could do nothing other than to damage the objective. So she severed her connections with the Labor Party. I hope that I am not stating something that is untrue, but I think that in the end she relinquished her membership of the Labor Party. However I am not sure of this. She did not do this because she disbelieved in the Labor Party but because she came to the conclusion that Meals on Wheels was not a political matter but a humanitarian one. 
In a report she relates how she read about Meals on Wheels schemes in England and how she set about organising such  a  scheme in South Australia. She communicated with prominent people, clergymen, women police, doctors and social workers. I was sitting alongside her bed when she actually made her first telephone call to the Chief of Staff of the Adelaide 'News' and asked him whether he would assist by way of publicity and special articles. This the 'News' did. One has to pay a tribute to the work not only of the 'News' but also of the work that  Mr MacFarlane  of the Advertiser' did in promoting and publicising the work of this infant organisation. In her report she said: 
The 'News' had sent out a feature writer,  Mr Cyril  Burley, to see what it was all about - and so it was launched at a cost of 15s out of my own pocket for the hall and the support of the Social Committees of the Pensioners' League. These old people out of their own funds paid the initial expenses involved in letting the scheme be known and inviting the support and cooperation of individuals and organisations. The amount was a little less than £5 but to them goes the credit of helping first from the little that they had. 
And that is true. The people who got this scheme floated were poor people who needed help themselves and who could ill afford the few shillings that they put towards it. It was a scheme that seemed impossible of fruition when she first launced it, but through her indomitable courage - and the words I am using I think I have borrowed from a previous  speaker  - her determination to succeed and her boundless energy this magnificent scheme reached the position where today it is a household word not only in South Australia, from which it originated in Australia, but possibly in every State. 
Doris Taylor would not want me to sit down without paying a tribute to the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  She is not with us any more but if she could have seen this Bill and heard the Minister talk about her, and have seen the quite remarkable work that the Minister has done in the field of social services, she would not want me to resume my seat without paying a tribute to him. This I do because I believe it personally to be a tribute that is merited and I do it because I know that she would want me to do it if she were here with us now. 
The Minister is an odd mixture, as my dear friend the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  said-. He has an odd side to him which I will not remark upon tonight. But he has an admirable side to his character. One of the admirable things about him is his great energy and the indomitable courage with which he is prepared to push the things rn which he believes. I instance the rights of Aboriginals. On more than one occasion we have seen examples of him pushing his views on social service matters. He probably needs greater courage than Doris Taylor needed on the occasion when she launched her scheme because whilst it was launched in perhaps a neutral atmosphere in which people were not opposed to it but were indifferent, although some were in favour, the Minister launches his schemes in a Cabinet of people who see no great merit in helping the under dog. The fact that he has succeeded in the face of this opposition is all the more to his credit. 
I hope the day will come when the memory of Miss Doris Taylor is commemorated. She was honoured with an M.B.E. by the South Australian Government for the work that she did. I hope that the Commonwealth Government, since what she did is so vital to Commonwealth activities in the social services field, will see fit to commemorate her memory in some way, perhaps by naming a building after her or establishing a scholarship by which her name can be forever remembered by those who come after us. If ever a person merited the perpetuation of her memory for something she had done against great odds, that person is Doris Taylor. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
What compensation will be payable to the wives and dependants of each of the workers killed at the Panguna copper project. 
What steps has the Administration taken to investigate whether negligence on the part of Conzinc Rio Tinto was a contributing cause of the tragedy. 
What assistance will the Commonwealth give to ensure that the dependants of New Guineans killed in the landslide are guaranteed their full common law rights to damages. 
asked the Minister  for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
What was the value of Australian exports to (a) China and (b) Taiwan each year since1950. 
asked the Minister  for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What countries have ratified International Labour Organisation Convention 100 on equal pay. 
asked the Minister  for External Territories, upon notice: 
What is the compensation paid to the widow and each dependent child of a New Guineas plantation worker who is killed during or in the course of his employment, and who at the time of his death was being paid the minimum wage fixed by the relevant Labour Ordinance or Regulation. 
What is the weekly compensation paid to such an employee who is permanently and totally incapacitated. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
What is the combined weekly salary and allowance paid in Papua and New Guinea to (a) New Guineans and (b) expatriates employed in the following occupations or callings: Primary Teachers (C Certificate) Secondary Teachers, Assistant Forestry Officers, Agricultural Officers, Professional Nurses, Primary Teachers (A and B Certificate), Enrolled Nurses, Patrol Officers, Assistant Agricultural Officers, Co-operative Officers, Artisans, Stenographers, Police Constables, Warders, Forestry Assistants and Members of the House of Assembly. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Is it still the practice to repatriate any expatriate who is sentenced to imprisonment by a court in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. 
asked the Attorney- 
General, upon notice: 
What was the total amount paid for transcript by the parties in the case of Moore v. Doyle which was concluded in the Commonwealth Industrial Court early last year. 
asked the Treasurer,  upon notice: 
Is it a fact that Commonwealth depart ments will soon facilitate the deduction of union subscriptions direct, from the salaries of those members of the Public Service who sign the necessary authority so to do. 
Will this arrangement apply to all organisations whose members are employed by Commonwealth departments and instrumentalities. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Does he propose to follow the example of at least one State government by declaring a public holiday in the Australian Capital Territory on a date that will coincide with the visit to the Territory of  Her  Majesty, Queen Elizabeth II, to commemorate the two hundredth anniversary of Captain Cook's discovery of Botany Bay. 
asked the Prime  Minister,  upon  notice: 
Is it a fact that the annual leave entitlement of' Commonwealth employees has not " been increased since Federation. 
Can he say what was the annual leave entitlement for' employees of the New South Wales Government at the time of Federation and what it is now.. 
Can be say what was the annual leave entitlement for daily paid employees of the South Australian Government at the time of Federation and what it is now. 
asked the Treasurer,  upon notice: 
Is  it  a fact that the preliminary estimates of employment for June to August 1969 were not released for publication until February 1970. 
If so, will he state the reasons for such inordinate delay in gathering and releasing these vital economic and social indicators. 
Does he see any need to update preliminary estimates of employment; if so, what action does he propose to bring this about. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What was the number of sitting hours occupied by the Public Service Arbitrator, the Deputy Public Service Arbitrator, the Chief Conciliation Commissioner and the respective Conciliation Commissioners in (a) hearings and (b) conferences in each of (he past twelve years. 
What was the number of sitting hours occupied by each of the Presidential members of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in (a) hearings and (b) conferences in each year since the Commission was established. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has machinery for keeping Commissioners informed on the Commission's policy relating to the standards of wages and conditions that are to be observed by Commissioners when arbitrating on industrial matters. 
If so, what is the nature of the machinery so used. 
If not, have any other means ever been used by any Presidential member of the Commission to determine the upper standards of wages or working conditions. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Why did the Government intervene in the recent Joint Bench hearing of a case concerning equal pay for members of the Amalgamated Postal Workers' Union of Australia. 
Is it a fact that counsel for the Commonwealth told the Joint Bench that the Government is opposed to equal pay unless the work performed by females is (a) the same or substantially the same as that performed by males under the same award, (b) the same range and volume of work as performed by males, (c) performed under the same conditions as males and (d) not work essentially or usually performed by females unless a corresponding classification applies to males. 
Does this mean that where existing wage differentiation and/or special skills and/or adaptability of female workers has led to the exclusive employment of females in a particular industry or calling, such females may become disqualified for equal pay on this account. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
ls he able to say whether there is grave and growing dissatisfaction among employee organisations with the extraordinary delays that have occurred in the hearing and consideration of many wage claims lodged wilh the various wage, fixing tribunals of the Commonwealth. 
If so, will he take steps to discourage delaying tactics on the part of employers by introducing legislation to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in such a way as to provide that wages claims not settled within 90 days from the date on which a claim is filed shall if fully or partially granted be made to operate retrospectively to the date of such application. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
To what extent does the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission identify the minimum wage as a 'needs wage'. 
Does the Commonwealth favour the fixation of a minimum wage that will enable each wage earner to enjoy a standard of living consistent with the predominating standards of an affluent community. 
asked the Minister  for External Territories, upon notice: 
What industrial safety laws operate in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea, and what action does his Department take to enforce such laws. 
Have any New . Guinean or European workers suffered death or injury due to an employer's failure to observe these laws. 
If so, were the New Guinean and European workers told of their common law rights to sue for damages. 
If they were told, what assistance did his Department render by way of legal assistance to such workers. 
asked the Minister  for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that a large number of industrial disputes occur as a result of alleged employer victimisation of union shop stewards. 
If so, will he examine the Conciliation and Arbitration Act for the purpose of ascertaining what amendment will be necessary to prohibit the dismissal or demotion of a union representative except in those cases where an employer is able to prove to the satisfaction of a judge of the Commonwealth Industrial Court that such representative has been guilty of grave dereliction of duty incompatible with bis duties to his union and to those members of the union whom he represents at his place of employment. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that great public inconvenience, loss of wages and production has arisen from employers' refusal to negotiate with the Federated Engine Drivers and Firemen's Association on its 1967 log of claims for updated conditions of employment. 
Are the chief obstacles to a settlement due to a refusal of employers to grant (a) double time for dayworkers after 2 hours overtime, (b) normal overtime rates for unrelieved shiftworkers, (c) double time for shiftworkers when Sundays and public holidays fall on an ordinary rostered shift, (d) meal allowances to all employees required to work overtime and (e) payment for public holidays which fall on a shiftworker's rostered day off. 
Is it a fact that a considerable number of awards already provide for the conditions now being sought by the F.E.D. and F.A. 
Is it also a fact that  Mr Commissioner  R. H. Watson, who is handling this dispute, when dealing with the rate of meal allowance, fixed a rate of 85 cents compared with the Metal Trades Award rate of $1.00 and that the last-mentioned rate has been upheld on appeal to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
Is he able to say whether, as a consequence of Commissioner Watson's decision on the rate of meal allowance, the F.E.D. and F.A. has decided against making further submissions to Commissioner Watson on any of the matters in dispute. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Did the Coal Industry Tribunal recently make an award to permit the working of multiple shifts on developing headings for 'long wall' mining in collieries owned by the Australian Iron and Steel Industries at Kemira and Appin. 
Is it a fact that long wall mining greatly increases productivity in South Coast collieries and that since 1959, Australia's overall coal production has increased from less than 16 million tons to more than 33 million tons without any significant increase in the work force. 
If the overall productivity per man has increased to the extent indicated, why has the Coal Industry Tribunal repeatedly refused to grant the union's claims for reduced working hours. 
Is he able to say whether the combined mining unions have decided to strike immediately any attempt is made to implement the Tribunal's decision unless the union's claim for shorter hours is acceded to. 
Is it in the public interest to refuse to shorten working hours when mechanisation or other forms of technology results in greatly increased productivity and is accompanied by substantial displacement of workers. 
If not, will he request the Tribunal to reconsider its decision to enable the Commonwealth to make submissions in support of the union's claim for shorter hours. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What were the average weekly hours, including overtime, worked by the non-farm manual work force in Australia in each year since 1930. 
What was the average weekly wage of this work force. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Has any Presidential member of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission ever directly, or indirectly, indicated to Commissioner T. C. Winter or Commissioner J. L. Gough that the Commission will uphold employers' appeals against settlement of disputes that rest upon awards that grant wage increases or improved conditions above the 'norms' fixed by the Commission. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Has bis attention been drawn to the press of 1st March 1970 in which he was reported as saying that, in his view, the Director-General and many other senior officers of the Post Office spend an inordinate amount of time in discussions with unions in attempts to resolve differences and to maintain good management-staff relations. 
If so, in what way is time spent in discussions with unions immoderate, excessive, intemperate or disorderly. 
Does he propose to reduce or control future discussions on ways and means of resolving differences and attempting to maintain good management-staff relations. 
asked the Postmaster- 
General, upon notice. 
Is it a fact that  Mr Mike  Jones was dismissed without notice from his employment as a trainee mail sorter at the Redfern Mail Exchange for the reason that he had failed to give a correct statement of his police record at the time of his application for employment. 
Has  Mr Jones  been convicted of a criminal offence. 
Is it a fact that his only police offences are all related to his anti-Vietnam and anticonscription activities. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice - 
Is it a fact that there are circumstances under which no workers' compensation is payable to the widow of a New Guinean worker killed during or in the course of his employment. 
If so, what are the circumstances, and can any circumstances arise to deprive the widow or dependants of a European worker from being paid workers' compensation. 
We have heard tonight from the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  the usual type of speech that we have come to expect from that honourable gentleman. It either starts with a tirade of abuse against imaginary Communists or it must inevitably finish with one. This speech finished with a tirade of abuse against imaginary Communists. The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  was one of them mentioned and the other is possibly a real Communist - I do not know - but no more real than the Communists with whom the Minister conspired in his lounge room in Wollongong on the occasion of May Day 1936 when he arranged for the Communistcontrolled waterside workers team in the marching competition on Labour Day of that year to win the 'Illawarra Star' Cup, when in fact it was probably only about fourth in rank. The cup had to go to a Communist team because the Communists then controlled the south coast trade unions. 
The Minister owned the 'Illawarra Star' newspaper which had started to go broke and would have gone broke but for the enormous wealth which his greatgreatgreatgreat grandfather brought into this country. The Minister thought: 'Well, why draw on my reserves when by presenting a cup to the Communist team on May Day I can buy them off?' That was the cunning scheme embarked upon. It was announced that the cup would be presented, and on May Day the march duly took place and who do you think won the cup as arranged with the Communist Ted Roach? The winning team was the Communist-controlled Waterside Workers Federation team. Who do you think presented the cup to the Communist official of that Federation? It was none other than the Minister for Social Services who, when presenting the cup, according to my friend the late Eddie Ward, genuflected to  Mr Roach.  I do not know whether this is true. But I do know that  Mr Dan  Curtin repeatedly stated that he knew that the Minister was an undercover member of the Communist Party at Port Kembla and held ticket number 1.16. That is a statement that the Minister has never denied and perhaps there are good reasons why he would not deny it. It may be that right in our midst we have got people who have no respect for law and order. How do we know that we have not sitting in our midst a spy from the Kremlin using anti-Communism as a means of trying to get people off their guard and so that he can have cups of tea with the honourable member for Chisholm  (Sir Wilfrid Kent Hughes)  and his friends, talking about Formosa and gathering valuable information for the Kremlin? How do we know this is not so? Is not this the way in which real Communist spies always behave? 
No, we understand. We understand that you have no respect for the Standing Orders or for law and order. 
 I am glad you succeeded,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  in making the Minister comply, however grudgingly, with the Standing Orders. I was terribly touched by the Minister's reference to the need for law and order - very touched indeed. I seem to have a recollection - I am sure he will not deny this in his personal explanation - that during the war the honourable gentleman who has such a high regard for law and order on one occasion actually blew up one of  His  Majesty's bridges at Cronulla in order to prove a point that a bridge could be blown up if one had sufficient dynamite. The honourable gentleman did this and I believe that he was quite surprised at the result of his little exploit but he was certainly very pleased with it at the time. Since that time he has appeared to be rather shamefaced every time that I mention this matter, but it is a fact that this did occur. I recall another occasion when he showed his great respect for law and order by dressing up a platoon of servicemen under his command. At the time he was in charge of a Home Guard section. He dressed them up as tramway men, marched to the Redfern Police Station, got alongside each police officer, pulled a gun and said: 'You are under arrest'. They took charge of the Redfern police station. This is the gentleman who talks about law and order. What would happen to people in any civilised country who went to a police station dressed up as a team of gangsters, pulled out guns and took control of the police station? 
The honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate)  went to Garden Island dressed up as a Communist and found to his great surprise that a sentry had seen him. The honourable member found himself looking down the mouth of a sixshooter. He then wondered why he was being arrested. He, too, finished up at the Redfern police station where he remained incarcerated until the then Minister for the Navy,  Mr Jos.  Francis, went to the then Prime Minister and said: 'What will I do with him?' The Prime Minister said: 'Let him stew in his own juice. A night in gaol will do him good.' Here is another person who represents the Party that believes in law and order. 
I say nothing about the highwayman who many years ago came to Australia to escape the normal penalty imposed upon highwaymen in order to become a doctor at Norfolk Island. I say nothing about it. We cannot blame the Minister for what happened in those dim and distant days. A gentleman by the name of Paul Johnson seemed to have an eye for things to come and in anticipation of the pretence of wanting to stick to law and order about which we have heard tonight from the Government side he wrote this little comment. It fits very perfectly the remarks made by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr McEwen)  who is the Leader of the Australian Country Party. The Country Party people can think of the honourable member as 1 talk and the Liberals can think of the Leader of the Country Party as I quote what Paul Johnson said about this kind of people: 
In his tiny brain there is the strong conviction rhat, somehow or other, violent crime, permissiveness, student demos, instant sex . . . 
Whatever that means:   . . and football hooliganism can be stirred together into an anti-Labour stew, it is, to be sine, powerful saloon-bar stuff; and provided  Selsdon  Man can keep the argument at the level of ill-informed rumour, ignorant prejudice and gut-reaction, there may be some electoral mileage in it. 
I beg your pardon,  Sir. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! Earlier in this debate 1 made a comment in regard to the subject matter under discussion in the debate. The honourable member for Hindmarsh has been a member of this House for some considerable time and I suggest that he should keep in mind the remark that 1 made and, neither by innuendo nor any other way. reflect upon any other member of this House. 
I came into this House on the same day as the Minister for Social Services. So perhaps if 1 deal with the things he talked about I will be in order, since he was not stopped from doing so. The Minister had a lot to say about the fact that there should be a free vote in the Parliament. Does anybody in bis wildest dreams imagine that there is a free vote in this Parliament from the other side of the House? Of course not. Time and time again we see members on the other side being whipped into line by the Whip to support things that they do not believe in. Time and time again members on the other side of the 
House have been forced to vote for the gag. Time and time again they have been forced to vote for candidates for the Speakership whom they do not like and whom they would prefer to vote against and try to prevent from being selected. Time and time again we see this. I hope that this is so, because I would not like to think that every member on the other side willingly votes for the gag every time the Leader of the House chooses to move it. If they do, then they are far worse than I thought they were. 
Procedures should be inviolate, says the Minister. Of course procedures should be inviolate but how often do we find traditions - using the word 'traditions' in place of the word 'procedures' - being trampled on by this Government? This is not a Parliament. This is not even an imitation of a Parliament. Tt is just an instrument to be used as a rubber stamp for a handful of arrogant, ignorant men who sit in the Cabinet and make the laws. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! 1 suggest that the honourable member for Hindmarsh should consider the remarks that I made just a few moments ago. 
Yes. If the honourable gentleman wants to guarantee that last night's episode is not repeated then he must guarantee that we will never again witness a repeat performance of the kind of arrogance shown by the Leader of the House last night and in the days preceding it. This Parliament is not a Parliament any more. It is a joke. We might as well all stay at home, save our fares in coming here, and send a telegram each time the Parliament meets and say: T am going to vote against such and such a matter on the notice paper', and let the Liberals go on and do what they are doing here, walking to this side or that side of the chamber. 
The Government has brought the Parliament into disrepute. The Government has treated the Parliament like a dirty rag. Is it any wonder that the Parliament is beginning to lose respect for itself? It could not help it. When something is prostituted in the way in which this Parliament has been prostituted for the last 20 years is it any wonder that people lose respect for it? If the Government wants the Parliament to gain some self respect let it treat the Parliament like  a 
Parliament. Let it give to the Parliament the right to express the views that the Parliament is entitled to express. 
A few weeks ago 1 proposed an urgency motion here, and what happened? The gag man immediately moved the gag as soon as I had finished speaking. No other member of the Opposition was able to speak on it. 1 wanted to talk about the failure of the Government to give professional engineers a proper increase in their salaries. I wanted to talk about the refusal of the Government to allow the surveyors, and the architects and draftsmen to get the rise that they are entitled to. I wanted to talk about the Government's refusal to increase annual leave to 4 weeks. After more than 60 years of federation we find that our public servants still have the same amount of annual leave. I wanted to talk about equal pay. But the Government said: "These are of no consequence', in spite of the fact that 320,000 people are either directly or indirectly employed by the Government. There were 320,000 voters interested in what I had to say, and what did this man do? This arrogant Leader of the House, who will not allow the Parliament to function as a Parliament, moved that no further speakers be heard on the question. 
We know very well why the Prime Minister has resorted to the ruse of moving the amendment directed against the Leader of the Opposition. We know that he is doing it in order to take the heat off his own Leader of the House. He knows that members of the Opposition are just seething with discontent. Many of us have been looking at the people who occupy the cushy ministerial seats in the front bench - and flashy black limousines - on which they think their posteriors would be more comfortably situated than the backsides of their rivals. And how do they get there? There is only one way to become a Federal Minister in a Liberal Government and that is to be a good crawler to whoever happens to be the Prime Minister. Since the Country Party members seem to be smiling at that, although there are sombre expressions on the faces of their Liberal colleagues, let me say: The same thing seems to go for you, too.' 
Certainly. The Minister for Social Services talked about the caucus meeting in the Parliament last night at which the Leader of the Opposition spoke, and somebody - I think it was the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  - said he looked as though he was conducting a hallelujah choir. Since it was not a caucus meeting 1 am free to say what did happen. The Leader of the Opposition told his admiring followers - we are great admirers of him - that we ought not to blame the  Speaker  for the mistakes of the Leader of the House. He implored us to show proper respect to the  Speaker  and pointed out to us that by blaming the  Speaker  instead of the Leader of the House we were blaming the wrong person. We were so impressed with the logic of his case and with the way in which he presented the case about respect for the  Speaker  that all of us went out and decided that we would go into our caucus this morning and support him unanimously. That is why we came in this morning to support the  Speaker  and that is why the honourable member for Wills rose and apologised to the  Speaker.  We were impressed by the oration and the logic which he gave to his Party at what the honourable gentleman had the audacity to imply was a caucus meeting held inside the chamber. 
I think the Parliament will benefit from what has happened. I hope that this rebellion inside the Parliament against the brutal use of power by an arrogant Leader of the House will produce a different kind of Parliament in the future. Unless those who have been elected by the people of Australia to come into this place, speak their minds and take an intelligent part in the debates on our laws, even the Minister cannot expect us or anybody inside or outside the Parliament to have any respect for it. If this Parliament crumbles then the Government will be responsible for it. Last night as 1 looked at the frightened expressions on the faces of the Ministers opposite when the shemozzle was at its height I realised that they were frightened because they were witnessing what could be the crumbling and crashing of their symbol of power. Parliament is their symbol of power and without it no government could govern without military dictatorship and martial law. Once you decide to go out in the streets and govern by mob law, brute force and violence, the people who are going to win will not be the people on the Government side, because the people on that side have too few friends ever to win. We do not want to see that. We want to see the Parliament act as a proper alternative to brute force and the rule of mob law in the streets of the cities. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr WENTWORTH (Mackellar- Minister for Social Services) -  Mr Deputy Speaker,  may 1 make a personal explanation? 
asked  the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the market value of work performed by tradesmen and related grades is higher than the rates fixed by the Arbitration Commission. 
Is it also a fact that tradesmen and related grades employed by the Commonwealth Public Service cannot bc paid over-award payments to correspond with the market value applicable outside the Public Service. 
Did the Public Service Board agree to rectify this anomaly by consenting to a 6.6% increase in rates payable  to  tradesmen and related grades. 
Is it a fact that only 60,000 out of a total of 219,000 employed under the Public Service Act receive the 6.6 per cent increase and that many employees who have a traditional relationship with tradesmen's grades have been excluded from the Board's decision. 
asked the  Prime  Minister, upon notice: 
Do officers of the second division of the Commonwealth Public Service receive additional payment for overtime work. 
If so, what are the details of overtime payments made to each level of this division in each of the past 10 years. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
What persons constitute the Territory of Papua and New Guinea Public Service Conciliation and Arbitration Tribunal. 
How many members of the Tribunal hold (a) statutory office in the Commonwealth or in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea and (b) an office of profit under the Crown. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
When was the Territory of Papua and New Guinea Public Service Conciliation and Arbitration Tribunal appointed. 
When did the Tribunal come into operation. 
What matters has it heard and/ or determined. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What power does the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission possess to make a binding order on parties to a demarcation dispute in which the members of  I  union are covered by a federal award and the other members belong to a State union and are covered by a State award. 
If there is no power to settle such a dispute, has he taken any action to resolve the matter; if so, with what result. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that there is no provision in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act that permits a ready means of amalgamation between trade unions without any dissolution or division of the funds of such trade unions. 
Is he able to say whether under sections 22, 22a and 23 of the Trade Union Act of New South Wales simple procedures are laid down to facilitate the amalgamation of trade unions registered in that State. 
In view of the growing tendency for the smaller federal unions to seek the greater efficiency and industrial strength that sometimes comes to them through amalgamation with another union, is there any merit in amending the Conciliation and Arbitration Act along similar lines to the amalgamation sections of the New South Wales Act. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What was the Australian output ofmotor cars and trucks in each year since1950. 
What was the number of (a) non-manual and (b) manual workers employed in producing this output in each of those years. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Will he examine the feasibility and advisability of amending Conciliation and Arbitration Regulation 127 in such a way as to ensure that when an organisation makes application to change the conditions of eligibility for membership, or the description of the industry in connection with which it is registered, the words proposed to be added or omitted shall be clearly indicated by the notice which must be advertised in the Gazette'. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that in February 1968,  Mr Conciliation  Commissioner E. J. Clarkson awarded equal pay to females employed by Commonwealth Hostels Ltd at migrant hostels throughout Australia. 
Is it also a fact that Commonwealth Hostels Ltd appealed against that decision and the Commission issued a stay order and then refused to consider the matter further until it had completed the 1969 equal pay case. 
Did the Commonwealth Hostels Ltd subsequently agree that certain of the female workers affected by the award of February 1968 were, in fact, entitled to equal pay but then refused pay and phasing-in retrospectivity to that date. 
Does this refusal to apply retrospectivity mean that the females concerned will not only lose the increased pay which; except for the appeal, would have operated as from February 1968, but also, instead of qualifying for the full male rate as from January 1970, they must now wait until January 1972, before so qualifying. 
Is it a fact that Commonwealth Hostels Ltd is wholly owned by the Commonwealth and is administered by his Department. 
asked the Minister for National Service, upon notice: 
Did the Commonwealth Industrial Court recently rule that section 141 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act makes it lawful for a union executive to carry a resolution containing an erroneous expression of legal opinion as to a member's rights to petition for a controlled election in his union and that the only way of testing the validity of an erroneous interpretation of union rules is for a member to risk defiance of such an interpretation, by gambling his standing or office in a union against his own untested interpretation of the law. 
Is it a fact that in the same case the respondents conceded that they had expressed an erroneous interpretation of the rules and that in spite of this the Court ordered costs against the applicant who had sought an order that the respondents be directed to treat their erroneous interpretation of rules as null and void and of no effect. 
Does he see any need to alter the law in such a way as to safeguard a union member from being obliged to place his union office or even his membership in jeopardy before being in a position to test the validity of an executive opinion or directive. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Conciliation and Arbittation Commission awarded salary increases in the Professional Engineers 1968-69 case that were identical with the salaries set by the Commonwealth Public Service Board some weeks before the hearing was completed. 
Prior to the award being made had two members of the bench described the salary rates set by the Public Service Board as being inadequate. 
Is it a fact that the award was also dated to operate from a date that was identical with the date set by the Public Service Board. 
Has the decision of the Commission left the salary relativity of professional engineers below that fixed by the 1961 Award. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Can he say whether, under the United States Landrum-Griffin Act, embezzlement of union funds is a federal offence and whether it is a function of the United States Department of Labour to conduct investigations when necessary and to launch prosecutions to protect union funds from embezzlement or misappropriation. 
Does the lav. of the Commonwealth give the same protection to unions registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
If not, does the Government favour such a law. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that, although section 123 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act gives an employee a clear right to sue for a wage entitlement at any time within 12 months of entitlement becoming due to him, the Arbitration Court has ruled that it is not contrary to the Act for the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to make an award to provide that an employee cannot sue for overtime rates unless the claim is made within 4 weeks of the time worked. 
In order to safeguard employees from victimisation and, as a means of ensuring that the policy of the Act is observed, will he consider the desirability of redrafting section 123 in such a way as will make invalid any requirement of an award which will have the effect of obliging an employee to claim any form of wages due to him within a period of less than 12 months. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether each State Companies Act and Territory Companies Ordinance fixes a maximum tenure  of  office for which a director of a public company can be elected without being required to face another election; if so, what are the maximum terms laid down. 
asked the Minister  for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How did the Commonwealth Employment Service figures of the total unemployed at the time of the last census compare with the total count of the unemployed as revealed by that census. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What are the statistics concerning the productivity per head of the work force in the various categories of industry since 1950. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
In view of the statement by the spokesman for the Metal Trades Employers that an appeal will be lodged to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission against the recent decision of Commissioner T. C. Winter to increase rates of pay for female process workers employed in the metal trades industry, will the Government seek leave to intervene against such an appeal and act in support of the I.L.O. Convention decision in favour of equal pay. 
 As I was saying. I am a bit bewildered by all this. I read this morning of an upset in the party meeting at which one ex-scholar of Geelong Grammar virtually accused another of telling lies. Now judging from what- 
I am becoming very curious about this business. It seems, from looking at the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  that he looks fairly confident. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  does not appear to be suffering from any degree of guilt in the matter, but one of them must be mistaken. You,  Mr Speaker  thought I was going to say something else, but I said that one of them must be mistaken. I know what you were thinking,  Sir, and  so was I thinking the same thing. The only way to resolve this matter now that the old boy network seems to have broken down over this issue is to have all of the documents. I wish that the Prime Minister and the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  would listen to what I have to say for how else will they know what I want? The only way in which we can resolve this thing is to have all of the documents. It is of no use for the Prime Minister to say: 'Look, one of the Premiers might say 'I do not want you to table it'. This agreement has been made or letters have been written, so let us have a look at them - concerning not only off-shore oil and minerals but also anything else. If we have sovereign rights in the area about which we are talking we have sovereign rights over all things, oil and minerals, and 1 am pleased to see that the honourable member for Farrer is nodding approvingly at what I am saying. This, df course, is true. If an agreement has been made and has been broken as the honourable member for Farrer yesterday at the party meeting accused the Prime Minister of doing- 
No, but I had a very good representative there, one of your side who always tells me what happens when anything goes against the Prime Minister, oddly enough, and he told me that he is ready to cross the floor and vote against the Prime Minister on this. 
I am glad that the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has pressed this request. How on earth can we make an intelligent decision on the matters that come before this Parliament unless we know the facts? How cao we get the facts unless we get all the letters? Judging from the look on the Prime Minister's face, he has nothing to hide. 
No, you said only some would be available. Judging by the look on the face of the honourable member for Farrer who is smiling his head off at the moment, he has nothing to hide. But somebody has something to hide because you have had an awful shemozzle at the Party meeting. 

 - Mr Speaker, I suppose if you are going to prevent me from stating my case, I will have to accept that. It simply means we cannot present our case as we want to present it, but I would just like to know who is telling the truth. Let us have a division on the matter. 
Motion (by MrUren) proposed: 
That the honourable member for Hindmarsh be heard. 
Motion (by  Mr Snedden)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
 I have very much pleasure in joining other honourable members in offering congratulations to the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  for what 1 think is his first Bill in his capacity as Attorney-General. I can think of no more illustrious way for a Minister to make his debut in this place than by the introduction of the Bill we now have before us. I have been in this place a long time and one thing that I have felt to be lacking more than anything else is the availability of draftsmen to honourable members other than Ministers. But let me be fair to Ministers. Ministers often come under criticism not because they are personally dilatory in getting legislation prepared but because the draftsmen are not available for the preparation of legislation. So really the position is that in the past we just have not had enough draftsmen to attend to ministerial drafting much less attend to the needs of private members who want drafting done for them as well. 
The Opposition has a right to introduce a Bill in the Parliament. It certainly has the same right as a Minister to have amendments drafted to a Minister's Bill. After all, the Opposition is  Her  Majesty's Opposition and represents the people who vote against the Government. I do not want to go into the figures of the last election but there have been occasions when the Opposition Party, whether Liberal or Labor, has represented about the same number of voters as the government has. Therefore, members of the Opposition Party have a constitutional right and a moral right - a right in every way - to be able to call upon the services of the draftsmen. This they have not been able to do in the past. 
One of the reasons for the Ministry finding that it is unable to get its legislation drafted is that once a shortage of draftsmen occurs a draftsman must be taken away from a job in order to commence another job that is deemed to be more urgent than the one he was working upon previously. This only compounds the difficulties associated with shortages of draftsmen. I do not know how many honourable members other than lawyers here - indeed, I do not know how many lawyers in the Parliament have ever sat down and attempted to draft a Bill. I do not suppose that any of them have ever had to draft a Bill. They have looked at a Bill that has been drafted by somebody else and have interpreted it or have sought to interpret it. But how many honourable members have ever sat down and from nothing have built up a very complex piece of legislation. 
To illustrate my point, I invite honourable members to look at the Trade Practices Act, the Copyright Act, the Social Services Act, the taxation laws, the arbitration laws or, indeed, the new Bill relating to compensation, if honourable members like to consider a Bill smaller in volume than some of the Bills that I have mentioned. I ask honourable members to realise that at some stage, somewhere, some person, starting from nothing, had to begin to construct what was to become a quite voluminous document. When honourable members think about that, they are thinking about the work of draftsmen. 
I want people, who, I think, do not fully understand the problems of the draftsman to try to comprehend this situation. A Minister says to a draftsman: 'I want you to draft a new Bill dealing with matrimonial causes. We have never had such a Bill before. There are at the moment at least 6 Acts in the 6 States dealing with this subject.  I  want you to marry into the Commonwealth Bill various sections of all the State Acts. I do not want you to offend this political group on which our Government depends. I do not want you to offend this other group. I want you to be very careful in this field and to watch that you do not do something that will cause offence somewhere else'. The draftsman is expected to be simultaneously a lawyer, a politician and a reliable gauge of public sensitivity. 
Those are sometimes the kinds of instructions that a draftsman gets. He is requested to draft a Bill that is perfect in legal terms and at the same time one that will not get the Minister for whom it was drafted into trouble politically. The Minister requires a Bill that 'will not get me into trouble; that will let me do what I want to do without anybody waking up'. Sometimes, that becomes the instruction, if not overtly given, then covertly given. The Minister says: T want to do this, but will you try to draft it in such a way that nobody will detect its extent. Smother it up'. The draftsman, not wishing to do it but being obliged to do it because these are his instructions and it is his duty as a loyal public servant to carry out his instructions, does what is requested of him. He sets about doing a job that is made ever so much more difficult by the fact that the whims of a politician had to be catered for. 
When the draftsman is half way through this task, and has oriented his thinking along the legal requirements of the task and the political side issues that have been thrown in for good measure, then just to make his already difficult task more difficult, he may suddenly receive a phone call saying: 'We have something else to do. We must bring in a Bill now to deal with pelagic fishing. Drop what you are working on and get into this new business'. So, the draftsman drops it. He gets into this business of pelagic fisheries. He must find out what it is; what the laws are of other countries concerning this subject; whether there are any international conventions which must be dealt with; whether it is constitutional; and what the High Court has said about the various aspects of the matter. Another question is: 'How do I meet the desire of the Minister to fool somebody? How can I do this and, at the same time, fool the High Court?' All these things become the task of the poor Parliamentary Draftsman. 
There are some people sitting on the sidelines - namely, members of the judiciary - waiting to try to show that the draftsman does not know how to draft a Bill. As an example of this fact, I refer to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act and specifically to section 5. The draftsman knew what was wanted. Parliament thought that it knew what it had done when it agreed to that section. The section states that it shall be an offence for an employer to threaten with dismissal a person who becomes or desires to become a member of a trade union. This provision stood the test of time for years. Why should it not? It is simple enough. It stood the test of time until one judge, in order to show his superiority over the Parliament which had indicated what its policy was, and in order also to show his superiority over the draftsman - in many cases, judges seem to regard draftsmen with lofty contempt - decide that the law permits the dismissal of a bloke if he joins a union but that an employer must not threaten to sack such a person. 
The judge interpreted the law to mean that an employer can sack a person after he joins a trade union. The only thing that the Act stops the employer from doing is threatening to sack that person. The judge in effect said: 'If an employer says that he will sack an employee if he joins a union that is a breach of the law. But if the employer waits until the man joins a union and then sacks him, that is all right'. Here is the case of the draftsman doing what he and commonsense people thought was the requirement of the law, what the Parliament told him to do and what the Minister told him to do. Yet, a judge in one fell swoop nullified everything that Parliament thought it was doing and everything the draftsman thought he was doing. 1 think that, if society could get a little more common sense and fewer technicalities from the judiciary, we would get on a lot better and the job of the parliamentary draftsman would be made a lot easier. 
We will not overcome the problem of obtaining sufficient draftsmen simply by changing the name of the position and doing nothing about salaries why must the Parliamentary Counsel go cap in hand to the Public Service Board? Unless the Board behaves a little differently from what it did in the professional engineers case, the architects and surveyors case and many other cases that I could mention, I think that it certainly is infra dig for a Counsellor of the Parliament to be required to go to the Board at all. I agree with the remarks made on this subject by an honourable member on the Government side. 
I regret that 1 have not had the opportunity to read the Bill in as much detail as I ought. It is a short Bill. I hope that it does more than what the number of clauses or pages indicate that it does. I have been so busy during the last 3 or 4 weeks trying to cope with a drafting problem with the assistance of  Mr Kolts  of the parliamentary drafting section of the Attorney-General's Department that I have not been able to give detailed study to other Bills at least now I am in a position where I can start to see over the top of the job that is in front of me. I learnt from my experience with this extremely capable draftsman just what a draftsman must know and what he must be able to do. Unless a member of this Parliament, whether he be a Minister or a backbencher, has had the advantage of silting with a parliamentary draftsman and being able to see a man who, on the other side of the table, can tell a member in a flash what it is that he wants to know and who seems to know all that is to be known about every subject at hand and also knows what the High Court has said about that subject in years gone by, that member does not appreciate just what remarkable and extremely experienced men these draftsmen are. 
Many draftsmen - most of them, perhaps one could say - have records similar to that of the man whose name I have mentioned. According to my information, supplied by a man who went to university with him, he was easily the most brilliant student of his class at the university. He topped his law examinations and received a special award or medal for his brilliance as a lawyer. We are lucky enough to get this sort of man into the services of the Parliament as a parliamentary draftsman. How on earth we get people like that on the kinds of salaries we offer is completely beyond me. We are offering the Senior Assistant Parliamentary Draftsman $13,000; we offer the First Assistant Parliamentary Draftsman $14,000 and we offer the Parliamentary Draftsman $17,000, which Ls the highest rate in the Second Division. How we expect to hold them on those salaries I just cannot say. I do not know how we get them. Why it is that the senior draftsman ought not to be in the First Division is completely beyond me. I think we have to do something in the way of increasing. salaries. Changing the name will not get them. They want more than a change of name. 1 do not know of any more illustrious term than to be called a 'parliamentary draftsman' now. 
Do not tempt me. I could say plenty about that. I think some arbitration court judges would make excellent draftsmen. I really think that some of them know enough about the law even to qualify for the positron. But we will not get them for this salary. They would rather stay where they are. I conclude on that note. As a member who has been here a long time, it pleases me to know that the Government has at last recognised the importance of these people. They are the most important people in the law-making processes of the country. These gentlemen sitting in front of the Speaker's chair are the most important people in the running of the Parliament. Without the  Clerk  and the  Deputy Clerk  the  Speaker  would be completely lost and we would be lost with him. Without the parliamentary draftsmen the Ministers would be lost and so would we all be lost with them. 
Probably. That is quite a sage remark. The fact is that we would be lost without the draftsmen. I therefore not only support the Bill but I again repeat that I hope that we will not merely change the name of the position but that the senior man will be put into the First Division - I see no reason why that should not be done - and that the others will be taken out of the clutches of the Public Service Board. 

 Mr CONNOR (Cunningham) [10.52)- I do not propose either to butter up the parliamentary draftsmen or to slap them down, but rather to tender them my sympathy for the circumscribed area in which the Commonwealth Constitution allows them to operate. No matter what status we give to these gentlemen, no matter what salary we offer, no matter what their terms of employment may be, the hard fact is that the office of Parliamentary Draftsman or, as it is to be called, Parliamentary Counsel, in this Commonwealth is the most difficult of that in any national parliament in the English speaking world. The main product of Parliament of course is laws, but it would be an exercise in self-deception to suppose that, having given everything we can think of and having got the most competent draftsmen that are available in this country, we can still get down to the real business of discharging the full functions and responsibilities of a truly national Parliament. 
As a matter of fact the difficulties are so great that in many respects a parliamentary draftsman, functioning under our present Constitution, is required to be a cartoonist rather than a portrait painter. In fact he can only sketch out certain limitations and hope to God that the High Court of Australia will deal with the best .that he has been able to do within the limits that are imposed upon him by prior decisions of the High Court on one hand and the whims, caprice or political motivations of the Government on the other. We have to realise that we are functioning under a limited Constitution. The national parliament is not a sovereign parliament; it is a parliament with limited powers. It has major national responsibilities but its powers are distinctly limited. Unless and until we get a truly national constitution we can expect as we pass into the 1970s and beyond that the difficulties of draftsmanship will intensify and the relevance of our Constitution to the new age into which we have now entered will become more in doubt. 
Let us take in particular some of the more outstanding and more crass examples of the irrelevance of our Constitution to present day conditions. Let us take, for instance, section 92 and all that it means or has been interpreted by the High Court to mean. I have heard prior speakers tonight refer to the need for clarity and the need to put it into ordinary layman's language. The little bit of a mortal layman's language in this case has been literally responsible for the perversion and frustration of the whole of major sections of the Commonwealth Constitution. The Constitution provides for the imposition of uniform customs duties and states that trade and commerce between the States should be absolutely free. That has been interpreted to mean something entirely different and there is nothing that can be done about it. We have an arbitration system today which is really the economic dictator of Australia because Parliament cannot legislate in that respect. 
Let us get down to the fundamentals and instead of congratulating ourselves that we will achieve the millennium by the enactment of this legislation realise that we are still bumping our heads against a brick wall. That brick wall is the limitations of the fathers of the Constitution, their lack of perspective and their inability to foresee some 80 years ago the needs of a modern national state in an age of science, in an age of technology, and 1 hope in an age of enlightenment. 
I do not want to delay the House unduly, but I would particularly cite one instance of the absurdities we can reach in terms of constitutional arrangements. Our Constitution today is productive of subterfuge. We have reached the ultimate impasse. If honourable members want to see it in all its pristine glory, they should have a look at the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act and the violence that had to be done there not merely to conventional legal phrasing but also to common sense. We have attached to that a contract that is stated to be nonjusticiable, where the States and the Commonwealth inter se would not litigate their respective claims. That 1 would say is the reductio ad absurdum, the reduction to absurdity, of legal draftsmanship. I do not blame the Parliamentary Draftsman for it. Unless and until we can get to a point where our draftsmen can do no more than help governments to subvert or to get around the Constitution this Parliament will be an exercise in legal frustration. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What was the percentage of non-manual workers employed in the (a) transportation equipment, (b) electrical and electronic equipment, (c) chemical and allied trades, (d) food processing and (e) fuel and power industries, or their nearest equivalent industries, in each year since 1950. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Has either the Commonwealth Industrial Court or the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission ever given a precise definition of the term 'public interest' as used in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act; if so, what is it. 
If not, how does the Commission decide whether 'public interest' is, in fact, at issue on occasions when public interest has to be determined. 
asked the Minister for  Labour  and National Service, upon notice: 
How many of the International Labour Organisation Conventions refer to matters that affect workers in the (a) Australian Capital Territory, (B) Northern Territory and (c) Territory of Papua and New Guinea. 
Which of these Conventions has the Commonwealth (a) ratified and (b) implemented by legislative action. 
Which of these Conventions has the Commonwealth failed to ratify. 
Which of the member States have ratified each of these Conventions. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Does he see any merit in the United States law which decrees that no union member whose dues have been withheld by his employer shall be declared ineligible to vote or be a candidate for office by reason of alleged delay or default in the payment of dues. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What was the value of gross national product per head of the work force in each year since 1950. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What percentage of the non-governmental work force in Australia receives over-award payments. 
asked the Minister for External Territories upon notice: 
Does the Territory of Papua and New Guinea Native Employment Ordinance apply to the Kandrian District. 
If so, what is the minimum wage and what are the provisions relating to (a) money in lieu of rations and (b) money in lieu of tobacco prescribed by the Ordinance for native plantation workers in the District. 
How many of the workers are (a) provided with free accommodation, rations, medical treatment etc. and (b) paid money in lieu of accommodation, rations etc. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
What was the total amount paid for transcripts by parties to proceedings before the (a) Commonwealth Industrial Court, (b) Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, (c) Public Service Arbitrators and (d) Conciliation Commissioners in each year since 1957. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
ls it a fact that 4 weeks annual leave has now been granted to employees in the stevedoring industry. 
If so, will he again consider bringing the annual leave provisions of the Commonwealth Public Service in line wilh those of die New South Wales Public Service and of many sections of the Public Service of South Australia. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice:  (!) ls he able to state the estimated total cost of transcript, legal representation, witnesses' fares and other expenses to all parties appearing before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in the Professional Engineers 1968-1969 case. 
What was the total cost to the Commonwealth of transcript, witnesses, legal representation, fares and other expenses involved in the Commonwealth's appearance and/or intervention in this case. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Commonwealth Industrial Court has ruled that a union rule cannot lawfully require a member to give written notice of his resignation. 
Docs he see any merit in amending section 145 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act by 
adding a sub-paragraph to permit trade_ unions to require that resignations shall be in writing and 
stipulating that where a member has paid his contributions for more than 3 months in advance of the date of his resignation, such excess contributions shall be refunded to him. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Did the Government approve of the action of the Public Service Board in appearing as a party in the Joint Bench hearing of the Amalga- mated Postal Workers' Union's case for equal pay. 
Does the Government agree that where a female worker, such as a trained nurse or the like, is required to have special skills or adaptabilities not possessed by normal males, such a worker should not be disqualified for equal pay merely because the work is essentially or usually performed by females. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is he able to add to his answer to my Question No. 29S (Hansard, 7th April 1970, pages 794-5) and in particular state whether the minimum wage fixed by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission is a wage designed to meet 'needs' as distinct from circumstances'. 
Will he also look, again at paragraph (2) of my Question No. 295 and give an answer to that paragraph instead of giving an answer to a question that was not asked. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Has the per man output of coalminers increased since 1959. 
If so, what was the output per man-year in 1969 compared with the output in 1959. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice:  ls it a fact that the Industrial Registries clearly mark the precise changes "sought in the wording of conditions of eligibility for union membership, or in the description of the industry in connection with which a union is registered; if so, why cannot such ' changes be similarly set out in the notice which must be advertised in the Gazette. 
asked  the  Minister representing  the  Minister  for  Housing, upon notice: 
Will the Minister state a case to the Government for a'n amendment lo the War Service Homes Act to enable similar relief from the payment of instalments to be extended to widowers as is now available to widows. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
How many plantation workers are employed in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. 
How many of these were recruited (a) by licensed native employment agents, (b) by officers of the Administration, (c) by unlicensed agents and (d) otherwise. 
How many are accompanied by their families. 
How many of those not accompanied by their families entered into contracts of employment for (a) 12 months, (b) 2 years and (c) any other period. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Is it  a  fact that Article 62 of International Labour Organisation Convention No. 110 prohibits  a  public authority from any interference which would restrict the right of  a'  workers' organisation from organising its own administration, activities or programmes. 
Is it also a fact that Article 62 of the Convention provides that no such organisation shall be dissolved or suspended by administrative authority. _ (3) Is it a fact that Article 67 of the Convention provides for acquisition of legal personality but such an organisation shall not be subject to conditions of such a character as to restrict the application of the provisions of Article 62. 
Is it a fact that the Territory of Papua and New Guinea Ordinance No. 38 of 1962 as amended (a) makes it compulsory for a workers' organisation to be registered under the Ordinance, (b) gives the Industrial Registrar power to dissolve a workers' organisation, (c) gives the Registrar power to remove from his office the secretary of a workers' organisation, (d) prohibits a workers' organisation from using its funds to support the political party of its choice and (e) proscribes strike action by a workers' organisation unless such action is first approved in a secret ballot in which all members of the organisation are entitled to vote. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
What are the respective salaries and allowances paid to (a) Europeans and (b) indigenes employed by the Administration of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea in the positions of (i) Education Officer, Grade 1, (ii) Assistant Magistrate, (iii) Cooperative Officer, Grade I (iv) Patrol Officer, (v) first-class tradesmen and (vi) medical technologists. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
What criteria determine whether the widow of a New Guinean worker who is killed during or in the course of bis employment, is either wholly or in part dependent upon his earnings before his death. 
In how many cases have the widow ot dependants of a New Guinean worker in the abovementioned class been (a) granted the full amount of compensation specified under the Workers' Compensation Ordinance 1958-69, (b) granted less than the full amount, and (c) refused compensation. 
In how many cases have the widow or dependants of a European worker killed during or in the course of his employment been refused compensation on the ground that she or they were not wholly or partially dependent on his earnings before death. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Are New Guinean seamen employed on ships servicing Australian ports. 
If so, are these seamen being paid as little as $26 per month. 
Did the M.V. Slott recently berth at Port Kembla with a New Guinean crew which was not supplied with linen, towels, soap, hot water, proper cooking facilities, furniture, clean mattresses, suitable washing facilities, toilets or eating utensils. 
Who was responsible for picking up the New Guinean crew for the M.V. Slott. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice:  (1.) On how many occasions has the Department of Labour in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea referred" to the Territory Crown 
Solicitor the injury or death of a New Guinen worker which may have been due to an employer's negligence. 
On how many occasions has the Administration told a New Guinean of his or her common law rights to sue an employer for damages. 
On how many occasions has a New Guinea worker's common law right to sue an employer for damages been automatically referred to the Public Solicitor and what was the outcome of each such reference. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
How many indigenous male employees worked on plantations in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea in each of the past 10 years. 
How many of these workers received more than the minimum wage prescribed by the Ordinance. 
What was the amount of the payment above the minimum wage fixed by the Ordinance. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
How many plantation workers were recruited in each District in the Territory of Papua and 
New Guinea in each year since 1939. 
In what District was each such worker employed. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What inquiries did he make before answering Question No. 213 (Hansard, 7 April 1970, page 793). 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What is the average number of hours, including overtime worked by each employee in Australia in each year since 1950. 
asked  the  Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
ls it a fact that International Labour Organisation Conventions Nos 2, 23, 82, 83, 84, 97, 108, 118 and 128 come exclusively within Commonwealth jurisdiction. 
How many of these Conventions did the Commonwealth support or vote for at the International Labour Conference. 
How many of these Conventions has the Commonwealth ratified. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
ls it a fact that the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission sat for about 80 days hearing evidence in the Professional Engineers 1968-1969 case. 
Did the hearing become necessary because of the refusal of the Commonwealth Public Service Board to negotiate on the matter. 
If so. did the Government approve of the Board's attitude, and why did the Board unilaterally announce new salary levels a short time before the Commission handed down its award. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that there is virtually full compliance with the main provisions of International Labour Organisation Conventions Nos &gt; 23, 32. 52. 58. 62. 81, 84, 92, 98, 101. 102, 109, 112, 118, 123 and 128. 
If so, what is the reason for not ratifying these Conventions. 
With which of these Conventions has the Commonwealth failed to comply. 
Which of the State governments have (a) refused or (b) failed to comply with each of these Conventions. 
What is the Commonwealth doing to secure State government agreement to ratification of these Conventions. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice - 
Has each expatriate convicted of a serious offence been deported from Papua and New Guinea pursuant to an order under the Migration Ordinance 1963-1969. 
If not, what are the names of, and the nature of the offences committed by, expatriates convicted of serious offences who were not deported. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Will he re-check the answer given to paragraph (2) of Question No. 296 (Hansard, 7th April 1970, page 766) and state why the weekly compensation paid to a New Guinean plantation worker who is permanently and totally incapacitated is higher than the amount he would have received but for his incapacitation. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
On what basis did the Administration of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea make the assessment that an expatriate patrol officer is worth four times the amount paid to a native patrol officer. 
Why are native teachers, education officers, nurses, co-operative officers, artisans and stenographers paid less than one-third the wage rates of their expatriate counterparts. 
Can natives in the abovementioned categories purchase food, clothing and household goods and appliances at lower prices than are available to their expatriate counterparts. 
If so, what is the extent of the reductions. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Commissioner for Commonwealth Railways can and does fix salaries for certain officers employed by the Commonwealth Railways. (2)If so, what isthe rate now applicable to each such officer and what was the rale in 1961. 
Is the Commissioner obliged by any law to seek the approval of the Public ServiceBoard before fixing such salaries. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Bureau of Census and Statistics is unable to produce a reliable, comprehensive and up-to-date index on productivity in the various classifications of Australian industry. 
If so, by what means does the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission accurately adjust wage rates, standard hours and conditions of leave in such a way as to ensure that labour is given its fair share of increased productivity. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Why is a basic salary of only $107 1 -$1180 per annum paid to qualified New Guinean tradesman when the actual salary and allowance for expatriate tradesmen working in New Guinea is $3660-$3949 per annum for single men, with an additional allowance of $360 per annum for married employees. 
 Mr Speaker,  for the sake of the record I will read the matter of public importance which the Opposition has submitted to the Parliament. It is: 
The Government's refusal to gram Commonwealth employees 4 weeks' annual leave, pay rates comparable wilh those in private industry and outright equal pay. 
The Commonwealth Government is one of the biggest, if not the biggest, employers of labour in Australia. It employs some 320,000 men and women. It used to be the employer which set new standards and which led the way in improved conditions. It was an employer which, as far back as the beginning of federation in 1901  -  nearly 70 years ago - introduced the principle of 3 week's annual leave. Only one other government at that time had the same provision but very few employers, if any, provided for 3 weeks annual leave then. The Commonwealth Government has allowed the annual leave provisions applicable to  o  its employees today to remain exactly whore they were in 1901. A New South Wales Labor government introduced 4 weeks annual leave for all State government employees. A South Australian Labor government introduced 4 weeks annual leave for its daily paid employees. Many private employers do' likewise. Employees in the stevedoring industry now receive 4 weeks annual leave in place of 3 weeks as was the case. Although the Government seeks to explain this away by saying that this is because they work round the clock, it is true nevertheless that the shift conditions in that respect are exactly the same now as they were before. Still' the Government refuses to do anything about increasing annual leave for its employees to 4 weeks. 
After I conclude my speech the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb),  who has spent a lifetime in the industrial field, will make a contribution to the debate. He will be followed from this side by the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  who was an officer of the Commonwealth Public Service for many years. The honourable member for Banks will deal more fully with the question of 4 weeks annual leave than I propose to do at this stage. 1 want to refer now to the position of officers of the Commonwealth Public Service whose rates of pay no longer are comparable with those in private industry. The Commonwealth first showed its hand in relation to officers of the professional grades in the professional engineers case. After spending scores of thousands of dollars in litigation the Public Service Board finally agreed to negotiate. The Board made a submission to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission stating the terms of the salaries which it thought ought to apply. It even nominated a date from which the increase should operate. Although 2 members of the Commission who were then considering the matter had previously indicated that they regarded the offer as inadequate, the Commission accepted the pay scale proposed by the Board as well as the date of operation. No doubt it was acting under the influence of Government pressures. Any denial of this, which will come in a minute from the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden),  can be completely contradicted or disregarded because the Minister is not noted for telling the truth or for answering straight out the questions put to him on notice or in any other way, as I will prove in a minute. 
The professional engineers have now drifted from a position of being somewhere near the middle of the scale of salaries paid to professional officers to within 2 brackets of the bottom of the scale. In 1962 their position was infinitely better in relation to other technical grades than it is now. Their position has deteriorated to the point where the Association of Professional Engineers of Australia, which has never been in favour of direct action or bans on overtime, now has reluctantly come to the view that the only way it will ever get justice from the Commonwealth Government and from the Public Service Board is by resorting to direct action. The architects and surveyors were forced to do this and to impose an overtime ban. As a consequence, ultimately they received an increase over and above that which they had previously been offered. So it is quite clear that the Commonwealth has not set itself up as a leader in industrial standards so that living standards can be improved and so that the general work force can share properly in the increased productivity of the country, but has regarded itself as the barrier between leg timate employee demands for increased wages and the unjust refusals on the part of employers to grant those demands. The Commonwealth Government represents the employing class and acts as though it represents the employing class only. It will not grant 4 weeks annual leave to its employees because it does not want what Commonwealth employees receive to be used as a lever against private employers. 
The Commonwealth will not give equal pay to women in its employ because it does not want the wages of women in the Commonwealth Public Service to be used as a lever by the trade union movement to get equal pay for women employed by private enterprise. In every case its concern is for the employer. There is no regard at all for the 4 million people who comprise the work force of the Commonwealth. It is about time that those who have to work for their living, whether they are engaged in manual work, whether they are in the white collar brigade, or whether they belong to the professional grades, realised that the real reason why professional, semi.professional, skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled people in Australia today are not sharing properly in the increase of productivity in the country is that the Commonwealth Government, acting as the agent of the employers in all walks of life, is preventing this from being done. 
The Commonwealth Government is the most litigIOUS employer in Australia. It spends more money paying lawyers to appear before the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to fight legitimate claims for increased wages and salaries than ever before in the history of the Commonwealth. It seems a lot of lawyers are hanging on to the coat tails of Ministers, seeking briefs which they cannot get elsewhere. Briefs are being obligingly provided by Commonwealth Ministers in order to fight legitimate claims for higher wages by people in the professional, semiprofessional and unskilled grades. What has happened with the qualified accountants? The Commonwealth has reached the stage where the number of qualified accountants that it requires has fallen so short of the number it can get that it has had to change and to lower the qualification standards which previously were set. It has had to do so in order to attract more people or to be able to get sufficient people to do the work. Instead of offering a cadetship, instead of giving assistance at the tertiary level to people who wish to become qualified accountants so that they could meet the needs of the Commonwealth, it seeks to remedy the situation by reducing the standards. I. have spoken of the surveyors, the architects and the professional engineers. 
Nothing has been done by this Government to meet the changes in prices, lt has done nothing at all to see that wage rates of Commonwealth employees contain a fair share of the increase in national productivity. The Government has done nothing to provide appropriate recompense for the proper and just evaluation of skill and responsibility involved in the tasks that are being performed for the Commonwealth, lt has done nothing to provide for equal pay. Indeed, the Government has done its very best to prevent that by putting to the Arbitration Commission a 9-point formula which makes it virtually impossible for a woman to get the full rate of pay if she is doing work that is not normally done by men, such as the work of a triple certificated nursing sister. A nursing aide can get male rates because there are male nursing aides. A women who looks after the cleaning of toilets can get the male rate because males are employed in looking after toilets. But a woman who is employed as a lavatory attendant in a ladies convenience cannot get it because men are not employed as lavatory attendants at a ladies convenience. So runs the stupid reasoning of the Commonwealth Government. 
A matron in charge of a child minding centre could not possibly qualify for the male rate because mcn do not act as matrons in charge of child minding centres. The reason for this is that men cannot do it. The reason that there are no male triple certificated nurses is that men cannot become and are not suitable to become triple certificated nurses. They do not have the ability to do that work as well as women. Men do not have the ability, as women have, to be in charge of child minding centres. The Government grasps this slender, miserable reed and says: 'For these reasons we will not give women the full adult male rate'. The Government in fact refuses to give equal pay to women employed by Commonwealth Hostels Ltd who, according to the Arbitration Commissioner, were entitled to it. Again, the Commonwealth Government appealed to the Commission against that decision. When I asked the Minister to justify the appeal he said: 'I did not appeal. The Commonwealth did not appeal. What happened is that Commonwealth Hostels Ltd appealed.' But Commonwealth Hostels 
Ltd is completely under his control as the Minister for Labour and National Service. It is a Government instrumentality controlled and owned completely by the Commonwealth Government. Although it is registered as a private company, the Minister knows that it is in fact as much a Government instrumentality as if it was a Government department. 
We have these avoidances of the straightout truth by the Minister. When replying to a question he will rarely answer truthfully. He will never answer straightout the questions that are put to him. 1 asked the Minister: 'Why did the Government approve of the intervention in the postal workers case when it appealed on the question  o'  equal pay for women?' He replied: 'Oh, the Commonwealth did not appeal. We had nothing to do with it. It was the Commonwealth Public Service Board that lodged the appeal'. This is splitting hairs, lt is a miserable attitude, as if to say: 'How can 1 dodge that question? How can I avoid answering yes or no? I know. I have discovered a way. Commonwealth Hostels Ltd is not the Commonwealth. The Public Service Board is not the. Commonwealth Government'. Of course it is not technically, but in fact it is. In fact both of them are under the direction and under the influence of the Commonwealth Government. 
Do not let the Minister rise to his feet in a few minutes and say that the Commonwealth Public Service Board is nol influenced by the Commonwealth Government. Do not let him get up and try to pretend that it is an independent body and has to exercise its own independent decisions in these matters. Nothing could be further from the truth. I am still waiting to hear the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  deny that the Government directly or indirectly influences the Public Service Board. I am still waiting for the Prime Minister to say whether he disapproved of the action of the Public Service Board in its intervention in the postal workers case. I am still waiting in vain for a reply. However, I do not think I am likely to get a reply. The Government has made no attempt whatever to bring the rates of pay for its Commonwealth employees in line with the improving standards in the level of community skills arising out of technological innovation. It has done nothing to afford proper comparability with standards of remuneration paid both within and outside the salaried area. 
If the people employed by the Commonwealth Government were working for private industry they would all be getting over award payments, because nearly everybody in Australia today who belongs to a union with an ounce of fight in it can now get over award payments. The Commonwealth knows that it cannot give over award payments because of the very proper provisions of the Audit Act, but it does nothing whatever to try to make up for its inability to give over award payments by giving a loading so that Commonwealth salaries will be brought into line with the real market value of comparable work outside the Commonwealth Public Service. It does not take into account and it does not adequately provide for the needs and the entitlements of salaried workers living in modern society. The salaries that it pay: do not reflect the standard of over award payments in the community at large. 
I wish that 1 had more time to deal with the subject of equal pay. I am still waiting for the Minister to give an answer to my question as to whether the Government gives to women employed by the Commonwealth Public Service a cheaper rate of board and lodging than that for men at the Macquarie pentagon and the various other hostels that it owns. I am waiting for the Minister to explain how it is that men and women have to pay the same fares. If a woman wants to buy a motor car she has to pay the same price that a man has to pay. If a woman wants a radio she cannot go to the shop and say: 'Look, I am only on a woman's rate of pay. Will you let me have a radio set cheaper?' It costs her just as much as it would cost a man. [Extension of time granted.] 
I thank the House for the extension of time. This is the point I want to make: Women in the Public Service are now obliged to have their wages fixed by a formula, determined by the Government and rubber-stamped by the Commission which consists of a 9-point proposition which again the Minister tried to disown by pretending that this is the formula adopted by the Commission. What he does not say is that the Commission adopted it because the Commonwealth representative before the Commission asked the Commission to adopt it, and ever since then the Commonwealth in any submissions that it makes to the Commission or to the Public Service Arbitrator on the question of equal pay for females or on the question of female rates of pay generally always sticks rigidly to these 9 points. 
If we look at that 9-point formula to which the Commonwealth has adhered and which it persuaded the Commission to adopt, we see that it contains, among other things, a provision that to merit equal pay the work performed by females must be the same or substantially the same as that performed by males under the same award; that the work must have the same range and volume as work performed by males; and that it must be performed under the same conditions as that done by males, lt is also provided that females must be doing work which is not usually performed by females unless a corresponding classification applies to them. We have a ridculous situation arising here. Females have to prove that the work they are doing is equal in volume to the work done by a male and that they are able to put out the same amount of production as a male does; but a male can go to the court for a minimum male rate without having to prove that every male affected by the rate awarded can do as much work as any other male. lt is all right for a male. The minimum rate will apply equally to all males including those who are not able to match the normal standard, but females have to prove that they are capable of do'ng as much work as is normally performed by males. I repeat, the same test, however, is never applied to males. 
Now let us look at the last proposition, namely, that the skills and the adaptability of female workers have to be of a character that does not have a corresponding classification of work performed by males. We have the situation in which a female railway carriage cleaner can get a male rate presumably because the Commonwealth would say: 'In these circumstances males are employed as carriage cleaners, therefore a female who is employed as a carriage cleaner should get the male rate'. I mentioned the position of nursing aides. In a whole range of positions, most of which are of a menial character, work is being per formed by females who can get the male rate because males are doing the same sort of work. But as I repeat, the best example - and there are many of them - is the nursing sister. She cannot get a male rate for the reasons I have already indicated. 
The attitude of the Commonwealth is quite indefensible. In the case of Commonwealth hostels, to which 1 would like to again refer, the Commonwealth appealed against the decision to give the females employed by Commonwealth Hostels Ltd equal pay. The Commonwealth secured a stay of proceedings from the Commission against the decision being implemented. The Commission granted the stay of proceedings because of the general case for equal pay, and instead of those who were ultimately to become entitled to the male rate getting the male rate qualifications to date from 1968, they now have to wail until 1972 before they will qualify for the full male rate, because even when the Commission finally agreed that some of the females employed by Commonwealth Hostels Ltd fell within this miserable little 9-point formula which the Government adheres to so strongly the Government still refused to backdate their qualification eligibility to the date on which it first applied, because even the Commission, to its discredit, insisted that no female can ever get the male rate instantly. Females can get it only over a 2-year phasing-in period. They receive a bit the first year and then work for another year before they finally receive the full adult male rate. 
Why has the Government not dispensed with the need for a 2-year phasing-in period? There is no need to have a phasingin period at all. The Commonwealth ought to set the example by dispensing wilh the phasing-in period altogether. Even the female Hansard reporter is not being paid the male rate, and nobody is saying that she is not as capable as the men who work alongside her. But here was an opportunity for this miserable employer called the Commonwealth of Australia, representing the people, who are not as miserable as it is, saying to this little girl: 'You are not to get the full male rate because we have seized upon some technical point. We have been able to discover that we can squeeze a miserable $400 or $600 a year out of you'. What good does it do the Commonwealth? 
Is it fair to that iittle lady who sits there and takes the shorthand notes for Hansard reports as well as the men do? - and I am quoting the men themselves. Every member of the Hansard staff to whom I have spoken tells me that she takes the debates as well as any male employee does; yet the Government, because of its miserable penny pinching attitude, has decided that it will not give her the full male rate. Presumably she has to wait another 2. years before she will get the full male rate. 
What about the female officers in charge of the Parliamentary Offices in the capital cities? I can speak for Adelaide. The female officer in charge of the Parliamentary Offices in Adelaide, which has some 20 members to attend to, is being paid the female rate of pay for doing exactly the same class of work, except that the volume is not so great, as the 2 men who used to be employed and are probably still employed in Melbourne and at least the same class of work as is being done by the man employed in Sydney. This Government seizes every opportunity to take from its female employees every cent it can, at the same time looking after its own members very nicely, with their VIP aircraft and their big daily allowances, which Ministers seem to help themselves to with great gusto whenever they get the opportunity. It is about time the people of Australia rose up and told this Government, which pretends to represent the people, the thinking of the Commonwealth of Australia. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Is he able to state the name of the organisation of which  Mr Gavera  Rea and  Dr Reuben  Taureka are bona fide members. 
 The Opposition has been asked to say that this House knows, firstly, what made the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  feel justified in believing that the Government had broken its commitment. How on earth can anybody present be able to say that we know what made the honourable member feel that he was justified in taking the action that he has taken? If I may while there is silence I want to deal with the main gravamen of the reasons for dissent against your ruling,  Mr Speaker.  Like the previous  speaker  it hurts me to have to do this. I do not relish it and' I do not get pleasure from doing this but the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  is that we censure the Government 'because they failed to honour a commitment made to the States by the previous Minister for National Development'. However, the later amendment which cannot be a negative says: 
This House does not believe that there has been any failure on the part of the Government to honour any commitments. 
The wording was 'its agreement' but on second thoughts that was crossed out and changed to read 'any commitments' to make the second amendment correspond even more closely with the verbiage of the first amendment. The first amendment was very carefully worded as 'honour a commitment'. The second amendment would have us say that the House is of opinion that there has not been any failure on the part of the Government to honour any commitments. 
If this is not a direct negative of the first amendment then I do not know what a direct negative is. It would not matter where one went or what sort of meeting one attended, be it a meeting of a tennis club or any other organisation, the most inexperienced  chairman  in the world would know that a direct negative is not permitted as an amendment to a proposition. Almost automatically by reflex action he would reject the proposition, as should be the case with the proposition which is now put to this Parliament. I think that it is a great tragedy that this Parliament has drifted into the position in which it is now put where the highest officer in the Parliament is forced to - I do not blame you,  Sir, for  I know your position and you have to get your pre-selection and all those things fixed up- 
I sympathise with you,  Sir. I  know what your problems are. We all have our problems but none of us has the same sort of problems as you have at the moment. 
I was not casting aspersions; I was trying to excuse your actions. 
What I am concerned about is that an amendment has been proposed to the motion that was moved by the Leader of the House. Then at the very last minute, after frantic hours of trying to reach agreement, with the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr McEwen)  rushing all around and, I understand, missing his lunch - and missing Trudeau -  Mr Eggleton  had to deputise for the Prime 
Minister to meet  Mr Trudeau  on his arrival at Brisbane.  Mr Peacock,  who has some portfolio - I think he is the Minister for the Army - was to go there with his good wife to entertain. All those important arrangements- 
Sitting suspended from  6.3 to 8  p.m. 

 - Mr Speaker, before the sitting was suspended for dinner I was referring to the second amendment, which was moved by the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Howson),  and which stated in part: 
. that this House does not_believe that there has been any failure on the part of the Government to honour any commitments. 
I said that that was in contradiction of the first amendment which stated in part:   . . that the Prime Minister and his Cabinet lack the confidence of the House because they failed to honour a commitment made to the States by the previous Minister for National Development . . . 

 Sir, the situation is that the first amendment means that we believe that the Government should be thrown out because it failed to honour a commitment made to the States'. I have used the exact words used in the amendment. Then there is the second amendment which states, I repeat, that this House does not believe that there has been any failure on the part of the Government to honour any commitments'. Surely, upon reflection, you must see that this is a contradiction of the first amendment. I would have thought that the contradiction becomes even more transparent when one reads further the verbiage of the second amendment and comes to the acknowledgment which the mover asks the House to accept. The wording is:   . . that when the Government decided to change its policy on OS-Shore authority by legislating to take control from the low-water mark to Continental Shelf, the Government did not, at that time, inform the States of this change in the policy . . . 
Prima facie, the second amendment admits that there has been a change of policy. 

 Sir, I invite the attention of the House to this point: What was the change of policy if it was not what the honourable member for Farrer said it was? Then we must consider the absurd conclusion of the second amendment- 
I think that if the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme)  would raise his point of order, if he has one, instead of trying to get the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  to make a fool of himself, we would get on a lot better. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker,  for that wise ruling. It seems rather odd that a  Speaker  who is so wise on most occasions can occasionally lapse into this fault of not being able to see the difference between an affirmative motion and the negative of it. This is the thing which amazes me,  Sir. I  know how sage and wise you are on most occasions but here we have this inexplicable lapse on your part - a lapse I cannot account for because you are not a silly person. You do not look stupid. In my experience you have never behaved as though you had not your fair share of brain power. It seems to me extraordinary that you cannot see that the second amendment is a direct negative of the first amendment. This is no reflection on you,  Sir, but  the most stupid  chairman  of any kindergarten club would be able to see that my argument is valid. 
I apologise,  Sir. I  did not mean any reflection on you. But anybody, even one with a fourth form mentality, or even one in the fourth form, to use the expression we heard from the exGeelong Grammar School prefect, would know that my argument is correct. I cannot understand why it is that the 2 ex-Geelong Grammar School boys are not able to see- 
Yes. There is another part of the second amendment which I think makes it painfully clear that the second amendment is in direct conflict with the first. It is certainly out of order because it introduces entirely new matter. This is a point upon which we have had numerous rulings in the past. The second amendment continues in this fashion: That the House 'is of the opinion that it is this fact which has led to the Honourable Member for Farrer feeling justified' - 
I wish the Attorney-General would stop looking up at the Press gallery and showing off. 
Motion (by  Mr Snedden)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
Are you ruling that the motion 'That the question be now put' is out of order? 
Thank you,  Sir. That  wise ruling again makes it more difficult for me to understand the first ruling. As I said before, it absolutely amazes me that a person of your great wisdom on so many occasions - this recent decision is a further example of it - could not see what must surely be obvious to anybody who can read and that even a person with a fourth form educational standard could understand. 

 - Sir, I am doing my best to be temperate and to put the point clearly. I am being aggravated by the frightened people on the other side of the House. 
I would like to examine the motives of those who were responsible for the amendments. I shall read them again:  that this House does not believe that there has been any failure on the part of the Government to honour any commitments. 
Where does the honourable member for Farrer stand now on that question? Surely he cannot agree with that. Surely the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  cannot agree with that. If he votes for that because he fears that if there is a general election there will be a Labor Government in office, surely that is not sufficient justification for it. Then the amendment goes on to say: 
The House acknowledges that when the Government decided to change its policy . . . the Government did not . . . inform the States. . . . 
This is the very objection that the honourable member for Farrer has been taking. This is all that he has ever said - that the Government changed the policy without having the decency to tell the States about it. Now we are being asked in this Parliament to reject an amendment which complains about that very thing. The amendment complains that the Government has done precisely what the Government, in the second paragraph of the second amendment, admits and confesses to doing.  Sir, I  ask that you reconsider your decision in this matter. In order that you may have plenty of opportunity to do so and so that you may make your decision in the calmness of the quietness that now exists I resume my seat in the confident hope that you will announce that the second amendment is out of order and that you will allow the debate to continue on the first amendment. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is he able to say how many engineers there are per head of population in the United States of America, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United Kingdom and Australia. 
asked the Prime 
Minister, upon notice: 
Do women employed by the Commonwealth as punch operators in electronic data processing receive the full male rate of pay for this work. 
asked the Minister  for Health, upon notice: 
What was the reason for his refusal to grant increased wages to nursing aides employed at the Canberra Hospital at the time he announced the recent increases to nurses. 
How does he reconcile the rates paid to nurses and to nursing aides with the rates paid to male nursing aides. 
 I rise to say just a few words in respect of the remarks made by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  and by those few who have supported him.  Sir, it  is quite clear from the remarks of all of them that they arc concerned with preserving the special position which the lending institutions now enjoy in this country and with preserving the special position enjoyed by the interests which show little regard for Australia's welfare. They have no regard at all for the need for Australia to own and control its industries. Where these honourable members must choose between these 2 conflicting interests they are prepared to reject the interests of Australia and to take the side of those who have no regard for Australia except to use it as a quarry and as a place in which to obtain quick returns for little outlay. 
Clause 8 of the Bill makes clear what the purpose of the Corporation shall be. It states in part:   the Corporation shall pursue a policy directed to securing to the greatest extent that  is  practicable participation by Australian residents in the ownership of the capital, and in the control, of that company or of the companies engaged or proposing to engage in that industry. 
No Government could render a greater service to this country than to try to achieve the objectives there stated. 
Here we see these honourable members who are opposed to this legislation having the hide to put the point of view of private investors above the interests of their own country. They ought to be ashamed of themselves for doing so. They ought to be perfectly ashamed of themselves for coming into this place and so blatantly putting the view of people who have waxed fat and battened on this country over the years. These honourable members are putting the interests of these people before the interests of their own country. They are supposed to represent their country. They were sent here to pass laws that will benefit the country to the maximum extent possible. Occasionally, we find that the Government flukes being right. That happens as often, perhaps, as the Opposition flukes being wrong. On this occasion both the Opposition and the Government happen to be right. 
Now we have the odd occasion when the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Leader of the Country Party  (Mr McEwen)  has done something that is really in the interests of this country. Although he was a long time thinking about it and made a lot of noise about people gradually getting control of Australian industry, at long last, after he was able to get this measure before the House by prevailing on those in the Liberal Party ranks who opposed him and who represented the private lending institutions, we still find those who opposed it fighting a rearguard action against it. I do not know what satisfaction they get from this. Are they completely ignorant of what they are doing, in which case we could perhaps forgive them, or are they willingly or guiltily going along as the direct personal representatives in this place of those lending institutions, even though they know that what they are doing is against the best interests of this country, which is their country as much as it is our country? I am thoroughly ashamed of them and I hope that they will feel just as thoroughly ashamed when they see their recorded remarks in Hansard. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What is the current annual salary, tax free allowance and other payments payable by the Commonwealth to the Minister for Labour and National Service. 
Does he receive any additional daily allowance while travelling outside his State; if so, what is the allowance so paid. 
What was the amount paid to the then Minister for Labour and National Service in respect of payments referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2) at the time of the Professional Engineers' Case in 1962. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
In view of the recent agreement between the Commonwealth and registered unions and associations under which Commonwealth Departments will make wage and salary deductions on behalf of members of such bodies who authorise deductions for union or association fees, will he request all Commonwealth instrumentalities to extend similar facilities to organisations whose members are employed by such instrumentalities. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has bis attention been drawn to a television statement by the chief spokesman for the National Civic Council,  Mr B.  A. Santamaria, and republished in News Weekly of 18th March 1970, alleging that Second Division public servants receive salaries from $12,000 to $18,000 per annum plus overtime. 
In view of his answer to Question No. 526 (Hansard, 14th April 1970, page 1110), in which he denies that the Public Service Board has approved overtime payments to Second Division public servants, will he ask the Public Service 
Board to inform  Mr Santamaria  that his allegations are untrue and request that he publicly correct his false charge against officers who, by virtue of their office are unable to enter into public controversy. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
When the 1970-71 Budget is being framed will the Minister give specific consideration to extending to widowers the relief from the payment of instalments now available to widows under the War Service Homes Act. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
What is the name of the agents of the Karlander Line who arranged for the picking up of the New Guinean crew of the M.V. 'Stott'. 
Can he say whether the agents knew that the New Guineans would receive a monthly wage of only $22.50 plus food, accommodation and issues and that the living conditions on the M.V. Stott' were unsatisfactory. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Will he give a specific answer as to whether the Commonwealth Industrial Court recently ruled that section 141 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act makes it lawful for a union executive to carry a resolution containing an erroneous expression of legal opinion as to a members rights to petition for a controlled election in his union and that no remedy would be available under the Act until an implied threat became  a  reality. 
Is it  a  breach of union rules for a union executive to carry  a  resolution which constitutes a breach of section 171 (3.) of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
If so, under what section of the Act can a person affected by such a decision seek redress. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What was the outcome of the consideration given by the National Labour Advisory Council to the need for amendments to company and bankruptcy legislation to ensure an employee priority in wages, compensation entitlements and remuneration in lieu of leave over secured creditors. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in exercising its discretion under section 41 (1.) (d) (ii) of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, as to the circumstances which make the intervention of a Federal tribunal more desirable than that of a State tribunal, has not always reached consistent conclusions, and that in the 1968 Meat Industry Case, a Full Bench in dealing with the same matter, said that in its view it is preferable that no one bench of the Commission should attempt to formulate codes intended to control in any precise way the exercise in the future of discretions reposed in the Commission by the Act. 
If so, will he consider taking steps to amend section 41 in such a way as to remove the ambiguity that has arisen from the Commission's conflicting exercise of its discretionary powers under that section of the Act. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is there several weeks' delay in publishing the monthly Industrial Information Bulletin. 
Are the judgments of the Commonwealth Industrial Court and of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in some cases not published in printed pamphlet form until nearly 12 months after a decision is given. 
Is it a fact that employee and employer organisations have come to rely upon the Industrial Information Bulletin as a means of keeping abreast of current decisions. 
If so, will he consider some means by which the delay in publishing the Industrial Information Bulletin may be reduced. 
I ask what is in effect a question supplementary to the question asked by the honourable member for Farrer, but it is directed to the Minister for Labour and National Service. In view of the grave dissatisfaction that exists among professional engineers and of the fact that Australia is now one of the countries in the Western world which have fewer engineers per 100,000 head of population than many other countries, and in view of the fact that 2 of the members of the joint Bench of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission which rejected the engineers' claims expressed the view that the Public Service Board's offer was inadequate, will the Minister use his good offices with the Commission to arrange for the case to be reopened and reheard, and at the rehearing will the Government refrain from pressing upon the Commission the acceptance of the Public Service Board's assessment of the proper rates of pay? 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
On what date did the Association of Professional Engineers of Australia file their claim for a new award with the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
On what dates did the Commission sit to hear the application. 
When did the Commission announce its award. 
Did the Commonwealth Public Service Board, the only respondent in these proceedings, fix the new salary rates before the award was made. 
Did the Government authorise the Board to fix new salary rates before the Commission's award was announced. 
If so, did the Government (a) consult wilh the Board on the rates so fixed and (t&gt;) approve of the rates so fixed. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Does the Administration of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea exercise any control over charges made by private recruiting agents for the recruitment of native workers in the Territory. 
If so, what is the charge made to employers for the recruitment of labour. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Will he codify decisions of the Commonwealth Industrial Court and, where such decisions are found to be contradictory or in conflict wilh the policy of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, take action to amend the Act in such a way as to eliminate ambiguities and injustices in the law. 
Will he, at the same time, ensure that the law is brought into conformity with the policy of the Act. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How many young men have (a) failed to register under the National Service Act, (b) been prosecuted for failing to register, (c) been (i) fined and (ii) gaoled for refusing to register and (d) refused to pay a fine imposed. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Will he reconsider paragraph (2) of my Question No. 343 (Hansard, 15lh April, page 1205) and provide a separate answer to this part. 
Will he also review the answer to paragraph (4) of the same question and state as asked whether the decision of the Commission has left the salary relativity of professional engineers below that fixed by the 1961 Award. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What are the names of the Conciliators now practising in accordance with the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
asked  the  Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
In what matters has the Arbitration Commision made a Common Rule declaration since 1957. 
What was the effect of each such declaration. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
What is the total amount received by his Department for the transcript of proceedings in which the Commonwealth Reporting Service is responsible for reporting such proceedings. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
What is the 'Family Needs Allowance' now paid to New Guinean public servants employed by the Administration of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea in each part of the Territory in which a different rate applies in respect of family units of fa) man and wife, (b) man and wife and one child, (c) man and wife and two children, (d) man and wife and three children and (e) man and wife and more than three children. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
What is the name of the injured New Guinean worker whose case WU: finalised in 1969 on the basis of $300 damages. 
Did the worker concerned have lo pay (a) costs, (b) medical expenses or (c) any other costs out nf the damages referred to. 
What was the nature of the worker's injuries. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Why did he, in reply to the first four paragraphs of my question No. 585 (Hansard, 7th May 1970, page 1881), merely refer me to a document published by his Department instead of giving me a public reply so that the press would have been in a position to evaluate the bona fides of the Commonwealth's position in relation to ' the International Labour Organisation. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
What steps has the Administration of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea taken to inform New Guineans that advice on common law rights lo sue an employer for damages is available from officers of the Department of Labour. 
What action has the Department taken to inform New Guineans of the difference between common law rights to damages and rights lo workmen's compensation. 
asked the- Prime Minister, upon notice: 
ls it a fact that officers and employees of the Commonwealth Public Service (a) are prohibited from working in  a place or job of their choice, (b) cannot be paid over-award payments as are permitted and granted in private industry, and (c) are forbidden to support their industrial demands by strikes, bans and limitations in the same way as their counterparts in private industry. 
If so, will he take immediate steps to arrest the depressing trends in wage and salary levels in the Commonwealth Public Service by directing the Commonwealth Public Service Board to meet with representatives of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations and the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations with a view to establishing promptly sound salary levels based upon a full regard to properly established wage relativities, and to the advantages enjoyed by employees in private industry. 
asked the Minister  for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What is the salary and what are the allowances paid to each of the following officers of the Commonwealth Railways: the Secretary, the Chief Mechanical Engineer, the Chief Civil Engineer, the Chief Traffic Manager, the Comptroller of Stores, the Comptroller of Accounts and Audit, and the Special Service Engineer. 
What was the salary and what were the allowances paid to each of these officers in 1961. 
On what date was or dates were these salaries and allowances fixed by determination of the Public Service Arbitrator. 
asked the Minister  for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What was the number of Industrial Agreements certified by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission pursuant to section 31 of the Act in each year since 1956. 
Has the Commission ever refused to certify an Industrial Agreement on any of the grounds specified in sub-section (3.) of section 31. 
if so, what are the details of the refusal to certify. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What reduction does Commonweatlh Hostels offer for board and accommodation to female employees who are not in receipt of male rates of pay. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
ls he able to say whether any State law requires the State to conduct investigations and, when necessary, to launch prosecutions (o protect union funds from embezzlement or misappropriation. 
If not, will he consider introducing a Federal law similar to the United States LandrumurnGriffin Act under which embezzlement of union funds is a Federal offence and a function of the Department of Labour is to conduct investigations when necessary and to launch prosecutions to protect union funds from embezzlement or misappropriation. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission gave an undertaking to review the national wage at regular annual intervals. 
ls it a fact that this has not been done; if so, will he take steps to ensure that the Commission conducts an annual on date review of the national wage with increased rates made payable from 1 July each year. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Has the Commonwealth failed to ratify ail those International Labour Organisation Conventions which come exclusively within Commonwealth jurisdiction, and which had the support of Australian Government delegates at the time of their adoption; if so, why. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Does any section of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act permit parties to a dispute to agree to a Conciliator acting as an Arbitrator with powers to make a binding decision.. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
ls it a fact that at least one State Companies Act clearly requires that one-third of the directors of a public company must retire from office each year and, if desirous of continuing in office, must face an election by shareholders once every three years. 
If so, will he look again at his reply to question No. 420 (Hansard, 16tb April 1970), page  1313)  which slates that there is no provision in the companies legislation of the States and Territories fixing a maximum term of office for directors of public companies. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How many wage or salary earners were employed in each State and Territory each year since 1950. 
What was the number of (a) deaths, (b) injuries and (c) lost man-weeks caused by industrial accidents in each State and Territory during the same period. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What has the Government done to study or to update and standardise the relevant laws on industrial safety in the Commonwealth as a means of reducing the cost in life, compensation claims and lost man-weeks caused by industrial accidents in Australia each year. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Are statistics available which show - 
the incidence and 
the cause of industrial accidents in particular industries or callings in the various States and Territories; if so, what are they. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
Is it  a  fact that the Commonwealth Industrial Court has recently ruled that a person on subpoena to produce papers or documents in proceedings before that Court may simply swear that such papers or documents are not in his possession and cannot thereafter be crossexamined by the person who issuesthe subpoena as to the whereabouts of such papers or documents? 
In view of the position which is created by the Court's ruling, will the Government make such new regulations or amendments to the Act as are necessary to ensure that any party to proceedings before the Commonwealth Industrial Court shall be empowered to subpoena and to cross-examine on the whereabouts of such material as may be needed to enable the Court to make a proper and fair assessment of the issues before it? 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice 
What was the total amount paid in damages and, if available, legal costs, in settlement of common law actions in respect of deaths or injuries caused by industrial accidents in each State and Territory in each year since 1950. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What amount was paid in damages and, if available, in legal costs in settlement of common law action in respect of deaths or injuries caused by industrial accidents in each Slate and Territory in each year since 1950. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What has the Government done to study or update and standardise the relevant laws on industrial safety in the Commonwealth as a means towards reducing the cost of life, compensation claims and lost man-weeks caused by industrial accidents in Australia each year. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
ls it a fact that many hundreds of thousands of man-hours are lost each year through indus trial acidents and occupational diseases and that, in addition to lost production, more than $100m is now paid out in worker's compensation each year. 
Has his Department ever sought to obtain agreement with the respective States for (a) establishing mandatory occupational safety and health standards, (b) enforcement of such safety and health standards, (c) providing for research into occupational safety and health, (d) training programmes for personnel engaged in the field of occupational safety and health and (e) clearly delineating the responsibilities of the Commonwealth and the respective State governments in relation to occupational safely and health. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National service, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that there is no procedure in the Commonwealth for providing uniform statistics for recording the incidence and cause of industrial accidents and occupational diseases in particular industries in each State. 
asked the Minister  for Labour and National Service, upon notice: (!) What number of deaths was due to industrial accidents or industrial disease in each State and Territory of the Commonwealth in each of the past 5 years. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Has his attention been directed to a decision of a meeting of professional engineers held in the Hobart Town Hall on 22nd April 1970 at which a resolution was curried recommending to their Association that industrial action be taken to force the Public Service Board to recognise the worth of professional engineers. 
Is it a fact that the Association of Professional Engineers of Australia have never previously resorted to strike action. 
Can he say whether the change in policy by the Hobart meeting is the direct result of the engineers belief that only those unions which are willing to resort to strike action can receive proper recognition of their worth. 
1 always like to make some contribution to any debate that deals with the wheat industry because it is an industry that is near and dear to me, I having for a long time been close to the industry and having worked on farms. Although a lot of people may not believe it, I was reared in a rural atmosphere, first  On  a dairy farm and later on another dairy farm which tried to grow wheat and to produce eggs and porkers as well. I know only too well of the tragic circumstances that sometimes hit the farming community. Indeed, I believe that my memory of the farming industry is much better than the memory of members of the Australian Country Party concerning the wheat industry and rural industries generally. 
The trouble with the members of the Country Party generally is that they come into this place, get on to the soft, plush cushions in the House of Representatives, visit their very elaborately furnished club room on the other side of the building where they pat each other on the back most of the time they are here, telling each other what wonderful chaps they are and how terribly prosperous the industry is as a consequence of their direct contribution to it. They mesmerise themselves into believing that all is well. It is very amusing to see how the Liberals thoroughly enjoy a member of the Opposition giving the Country Party the roasting I propose to give it tonight. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is so tickled by what he hopes I will say that he has decided to go out into his room and laugh his head off where nobody can see him. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice:  
By what criteria does the Administration of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea determine whether or not a widow was dependent upon the earnings of a deceased worker before his death. 
n asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Have any widows or dependants of a European worker killed during or in the course of his employment in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea been refused compensation on the grounds that they were not wholly or partially or mainly dependent on the deceased worker's earnings before his death. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Has an Industrial Relations Section been established within the Central Office of his Department at Post Office Headquarters, Melbourne. 
If so, (a) when was the section established, (b) how many officers are employed and what are their designations, (c) what is the annual cost involved in maintaining the section, (d) is it proposed to add to the staff employed in the section, (e) to what extent are the officersinvolved in security activities and (f) have relations improved with the Post Office unions since the establishment of this industrial Relations Section. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What amount of floor space does the Commonwealth occupy in Temple Court Building, Sydney, and which departments occupy the space. 
What is the total annual rental and other charges paid by the Commonwealth for the space. 
Can he say what was the total cost of building Temple Court. 
Who owns the building. 
I ask the Attorney-General whether he is aware that the Parliamentary Counsel Act comes into force on Friday of this week. Is he in a position to inform the House of the names of the officers who are to be appointed to the positions of First and Second Parliamentary Counsel? Can he also tell the House when the appointments will be made? If he is unable to give us this information, can he indicate when he will be in a position to do so? 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How many days have been taken up by Full Bench hearings of (a) appeals from Conciliation Commissioners and (b) references from a Commissioner since 1952. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that International Labour Organisation Convention No. 3 provides that employees who become mothers shall be allowed to nurse their babies during working hours for half-hour periods twice a day. 
Does the Commonwealth observe this requirement in respect of its own employees. 
Which of the member States have ratified Convention No. 3. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether the Parliament of the United Kingdom in 1906 decided that the immunity from actions in tort which trade unions had, prior to the Taff Vale decision, enjoyed in practice should be restored and made into a legal right. 
Is he also able to say whether the United Kingdom Royal Commission on Trade Unions and Employers' Associations (1965-1968) found that for the proper discharge of their functions, the complete immunity from actions for torts alleged to have been committed by or on behalf of trade unions in furtherance or contemplation of an industrial dispute was still necessary. 
Is it a fact that trade unions registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act have no such immunity from the 1901 Taff Vale decision. 
If so, what action does the Government propose to update the laws of the Commonwealth in respect of this matter. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Did the Government disapprove of the action of the Public Service Board in appearing as a party in the joint Bench hearing of the Australian Postal Workers' Union's case for equal pay. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What are the conceptual and technical difficulties in separating out the contribution made by technological change to the purchasing power of the nominal minimum wage for a standard working week. 
What changes have occurred during the past 20 years in (a) the stock of capital per Australian worker, (b) movements in the terms of trade, (c) the educational level of the work force, (d) managerial efficiency and (e) economies of scale, which have influenced the real purchasing power of the nominal minimum wage for a standard week. 
This Bill is a stop gap measure designed to make a short term adjustment to existing rates of compensation pending fuller consideration of the whole field of compensation when the Government's Bill for a completely new Act is debated during the coming Budget session. The Opposition has completed in draft form a full answer to the Government' &gt; Bill lor ,t new A i. and copies of the Opposition's proposal in that form are already in the hands of interested organisations, including the Sec.relary of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. Replies have been received from the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations. We await a reply from the Secretary of the ACIU. Because this has not yet come to hand we have had to hold over until the Budget session our reply to the Bill. For those reasons the Opposition will not delay the passage of this Bill by lengthy debate, by moving amendments or by calling for divisions. 
The Bill now before us does not lend itself to amendment in the way necessary to make it accord with the standards of compensation which thi Opposition wants to implement. Our aim is to give Australian wage and salary earners the best compensation provisions in the world. We believe that they are entitled to it. We believe that we can afford it. For those reasons we state quite clearly and without any qualification that that is the aim of the Australian Labor Party. 1 hope to see the day when the level of compensation in this country will make it unnecessary for any person to be forced into common law action to secure just compensation for the loss of life or limb. The Commonwealth Government is the largest single employer in this country. It employs about 320,000 people. If we add lo that figure those who are employed by employers carrying out Commonwealth contracts, the number of people directly and indirectly affected by what we do in this Parliament in relation to Commonwealth compensation would be about 400.000. The ultimate aim of the Labor Party is to have one compensation Act to cover not only Commonwealth employees but also private employees in all the Territories of the Commonwealth and to cover employees who are engaged in interstate trade and commerce and who could constitutionally be brought within the ambit of an Act of the Commonwealth Parliament. We cannot put that in the proposed Bill for a new Act because the long title of the Bill is too restrictive but. that will be the ultimate aim of a Labor Government. 
There was a time when the Commonwealth led the field in workmen's compensation lt had the best workmen's compensation legislation in Australia. State parliaments looked at the Commonwealth for a lead. They can no longer do this because in so many respects the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act is lagging. We look at the States to see in what respects we ought to improve our Act. Un for.tunafely, this Government after 20 years of control of this Parliament is only now picking up those advances in the State legislation. Nearly all the States - and sometimes the Commonwealth will not move until all the States have moved - have increased their rales or liberalised the conditions under which compensation is paid. We ought to resume the position we held previously so that the standard we set can filter down into the various State Acts so that in the end all employees in the Commonwealth will benefit from what we do here. 
The great tragedy is that the very reason why the. Government does nol act is that what we do will ultimately set the pattern for what will become the normal standards in the 6 State parliaments. The Government's very excuse for not giving concessions such as 4 weeks annual leave and improved working conditions is that it thinks it ought not lo set standards which employers ultimately will be forced to follow. In the field of compensation the Government feels that it ought not to set standards which may require the wealthy insurance companies and other employers to have to pay more than they are paying now. The Bill provides for many things with which the Opposition is unable to agree. We appreciate the fact that some increases will be made in the weekly payments to widows, children and people who are totally and permanently or totally and temporarily incapacitated. The increases are not enough, but they are better than nothing. They will help to fill the gap between now and when the Bill for a new Act can be dealt with. For that reason and for that reason only the Opposition agrees to the . Bill without formally moving amendments to the various clauses. 
The maximum lump, sum payable under the Bill will be $12,000. Depending on the percentage of the total which the scheduled injury carries under the Bill a person will receive a percentage of $12,000. The Opposition would prefer and it is proposing in its model Bill to be considered during the Budget session that the maximum amount should not be a stated, fixed amount which requires alteration by way of amendment to the Act whenever it is necessary to bring it up to date, but should be an amount stated in such terms that, without an amendment, those who are affected by the Act will automatically get the benefit of fluctuations in the cost of living as reflected from time to time in decisions of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. For that reason we propose that the maximum amount should be stated in terms something like1 this: that the amount shall be the minimum weekly wage fixed by the Arbitration Commission from time to time, multiplied by 520, in other words, the equivalent of 1 0 years. This would give, on the presently fixed minimum wage, an amount of money equal to about $22,058 compared with the $12,000 proposed by the Government. This is not as extravagant or generous as it might appear at first blush to those honourable members opposite who are not used to thinking in these terms. 
Let me remind the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  of something that he and his colleagues have long since forgotten. In the' 1911 Seamen's Compensation Act the compensation to a seaman's widow was equal to 3 years' earnings of her late husband. Today the average earnings of a seaman for 3 years would be Si 8,000 as compared with the proposed compensation of $12,000. The $18,000 which was the 1911' standard is only $4,000 less than what the Opposition proposes should be the minimum standard, and yet what we propose is nearly double the amount proposed by the Government. We regret that right up to this moment the Commonwealth Act makes no provision by way of lump sum payments to a person who, through accident, loses the senses of taste or smell. There is no lump sum payment for facial disfigurement, loss of speech, loss of sexual capacity or loss of genital organs. True, these payments are proposed in the Bill for a new Act. It is a regrettable thing that we have had to wait all these years before anything was done in respect of these matters. Another point of objection which the Opposition has to the present legislation - unfortunately, this vice is carried into the proposed new Act - is that the Bill limits the amount that can be received by a person who has been paid weekly amounts of compensation for a given period, to be followed by a lump sum settlement in respect of some loss of limb or faculty.  "Mr Cope-  What is a faculty? 
A faculty would include your sexual organs, if that is what you are mainly concerned with. You are covered. The Bill provides that all weekly payments made to a person who receives a lump settlement in respect of, say, the loss of 2 legs or an eye or 2 eyes or a leg and an arm shall be deducted from the lump sum payment - that is, if the lump sum payment and the weekly amounts combined exceed $12,000. We object to this. Many of the State Acts make no such deduction. We believe that the lump sum payments fixed under the Act for a specified injury ought to be payable in addition to the weekly compensation paid, pending the final settlement of the lump sum payment. Unfortunately, that is something that we cannot incorporate in this Bill. 
We believe also in the principle of no loss of wages during the period of total incapacity, whether permanent or temporary. When I spoke on this matter in 1964, 1 mentioned that even in Bulgaria then the principle of no loss of wages was accepted as normal. In some of the Scandinavian countries the same applied and 1 said then - I have not checked it - that in West Germany the same old position applied. I looked up the 1969 edition of the 'Encyclopaedia Britannica'  on  this matter and I discovered that since then other countries have introduced the principle of no loss of pay during periods of incapacity following an accident at work or following disabilities due to an industrial disease. There are the United Soviet Socialist Republic, Yugoslavia, Argentina, Brazil and Mexico. Some of those countries that I have named are not rich countries. At least one of them is very poor; yet it can afford to recognise the principle of no loss of pay. 
The no loss of pay principle for injured workers is  Dot  new to the compensation and industrial laws of New South Wales. It is nor new to the standards recognised in some of the other States. Indeed, ever since 1936 the New South Wales legislature has recognised this principle in the enactment of section 124 (1) of the Transport Act and section lOOB(l) of the Government Railways Act. These 2 Acts cover a very substantial segment of the work force in New South Wales. The 2 sections already mentioned provide in effect, that an employee who is incapacitated by an injury arising out of and in the course of his employment so as to be unable to perform the duties of his classification, shall be paid not less than the salary for the time being payable to employees with the same classification and with the same length of service. 
The no loss of pay principle has also been introduced by consent of employers to cover employees of the Electricity Commission of New South Wales, the Sydney City Council and the Sydney County Council, which incidentally, is the largest local government employer in Australia, and also workers employed throughout the electricity supply authorities and local government councils of New South Wales. A typical example of the type of benefit introduced by the instrument of an industrial award may be found in clause 16 (b) of the Electricity Commission (Wages Staff) Award. It is known that many employers in private industry also make up an injured worker's compensation payment to his full rate. I know of many employers in South Australia who insure separately and additionally to cover the difference between the maximum amount payable under the Workmen's Compensation Act of South 
Australia and the wages which a worker would otherwise be receiving. 
The reasoning of the Government in its attitude to this question seems to be quite odd. The Government seems to assume that during his per od of incapacitation a worker eats less, his wife and children can live on less, the rent is less, the electricity supply costs less per unit, the gas company charges less and it does not take as much electricity to heat the bath water or to cook the food. The Government assumes that in some magical way the cost of living of a worker is less during a period of incapacitation than when he is working. If this is not the reasoning, the only other explanation for making a 'person accept less than his normal wages during periods of incapacitation is that the reduction :s a punitive measure imposed upon the worker. Presumably the penalty is imposed because of the assumption that the worker deliberately injured himself, deliberately allowed hrs eyes to be struck out, deliberately allowed one of his limbs to be cut off or, perhaps, deliberately allowed himself io run the risk of death. This is sheer nonsense. 
The fact is that when a worker is in hospital recovering from an industrial injury the cost to the household is greater than normal. The wife and children still have to be fed. In addition, in all cases in which normal family relationships existed, the wife and children would travel to the hospital and back again each day and would have to pay the cost of fares. Fruit and other little things would also have to bc taken to the sick man while he was in hospital.  His  financial position would not bc much belter when he returned home because friends would come to visit him and his wife would feel obliged to supply them with cups of tea and so on. All in all. the expense is greater and not less when the breadwinner is not working, but the Government has adopted the attitude that such a person should not receive the full amount to which he would normally bc entitled if he were working. The Australian Labor Party will be proposing a Bill which is in line wilh the policy of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and of the Labor Party to provide for no loss of wages during periods of incapacitation, so that once again there will be no incentive to become involved in common law actions for damages, which result in tremendous delays and costly litigation, because a person will be regarded as having the right to continue to receive his full normal wage. 
The Government proposes to pay the widow of an employee who is killed in the course ot  his  employment a lump sum of only $12,000 and then to wipe its hands completely of the matter. The Government will not care one iota what becomes of the widow once it has salved its conscience with the payment of $12,000. The Government's attitude typifies the attitude to compensation :n every State in the Commonwealth. It is a careless, slipshod and lazy way of administering justice. To fix an amount of only $12,000 is an unreal and miserly way of assessing the actual loss to a widow of her breadwinner. A lump sum of $12,000 is little enough for an elderly widow without children. It is, however, criminally inadequate for a young widow with small children to feed, clothe, educate and shelter. 
Speaking personally, 1 would like to see a widow with dependent children paid a weekly compensation equivalent to the income of her deceased breadwinner for the whole period of her children's dependency and, say, 75% of that amount thereafter until her death. Such weekly payments should be assessed, pf course, at. a figure- 
I will come to that in a moment. Such weekly payments should be assessed at a figure equal hot only to her late husband's normal earnings but should also include overtime, etc. Even in cases where a widow remarries a sufficient portion of her- original weekly compensation should continue to be payable to her deceased husband's children for the full period of their dependency. For those reasons we reject the concept that a flat lump sum payment of $12,000 is proper compensation to the widow of an employee who dies as a result of an industrial accident or disease. If $12,000 is an adequate sum to pay a wife who is widowed at 60 years of age and who has no dependent children to maintain, it is surely axiomatic that the same amount must be totally inadequate for the mother of 2 or 3 little children who is widowed at 30 years of age. Conversely if SI 2,000 is adequate for a 30 year old widow with dependent children it must be excessive for a 60 year old widow without children. Noone will advocate any proposal that a woman should make a profit from the death of her husband, but no-one I hope will want to see a woman lose from such an event. 
We reject the proposition that an employer can properly discharge his responsibility to the widow by merely paying some lump sum and then wiping his hands of the whole matter. There is no formula by which one can determine a lump sum payment of compensation that will guarantee the security of the dependants and will also give due regard to a deceased employee's age, earnings and commitments. We are therefore left with only one way by which we can guarantee that the dependants of such a worker will not be disadvantaged by his death, and that is to pay the dependants weekly compensation of whatever would have been the average weekly earnings of the breadwinner but for his death. As I have already said, the only modification I would make to such a rule is, in the case where there were no dependent children, that the weekly payment could be modified or reduced to, say, 75% of the weekly earnings which the breadwinner would have earned but for his death. 
I have mentioned that it may be argued that the adoption of the principle of no loss of earnings is too generous or beyond the capacity of industry. I. can anticipate the pinch penny arguments that will be advanced by Government speakers against such a proposal. They will discover that after the breadwinner's death there would be one fewer mouth to feed, that the widow can save a few grains of sugar or salt or a few specks of pepper when cooking for one fewer person, that there would be a small saving of shoe polish, that there would be a spoonful of jam saved on each meal or perhaps one spread of butter fewer. Then of course it may be possible with care to put fewer tea leaves into the teapot. These miserable little economies will loom large in the parsimonious little minds of those who support the Government. They will neglect the fact that the widow will probably have to employ somebody to cut the lawn, to dig the gardens, attend to household repairs and perhaps repairs to the motor vehicle and the host of other things which her one- time breadwinner used to do on weekends or outside working hours. 
They will forget that the weekly payments of principal and interest on the home which her late husband contracted to purchase must still go on. They will see nothing wrong with interrupting a child's schooling at the secondary level when the aim of the dead father was to give him the advantage of a tertiary education. They will see no justification for a widow and her children indulging in such extravagances as going to the pictures, to the theatre or for a holiday or in buying toys at Christmas time. They will reject car ownership for a widow as an indefensible example of extravagance or ostentation. If a car was only partly paid for at the time of the breadwinner's death they would expect her to accept repossession as a normal consequence. They will overlook the fact that the widow will remain a taxpayer, just as her late husband was a taxpayer, and that the rate of taxation for the widow will be higher than it would have been for her husband prior to his death. Once we honour our obligations in this matter there will come to all of us, as Australians the satisfaction that we belong to a society which refuses to shirk the responsibility which a rich and highly developed community surely owes to the dependants of people whose lives are cut short in the course of their employment. 
The cost would not be as great as we may be told later in this debate that it would be. The proposal I have outlined would almost double the benefits, because the average weekly wage in Australia today is nearly double the amount which is proposed in the Bill. The amount of $22,000 which we fix as the basis for deciding lump sum payments is nearly double the amount of $12,000 proposed by the Government. So let us assume that we doubled the proposed amount. The total cost annually to the Commonwealth then would be no more than an extra $3,316,000. 
I thank the honourable gentleman for that sage remark. It is not a great amount to be paid by a country which is spending the amount we spend on things like the Fill, and in view of other enormous expenditures we incur without so much as blinking an eye. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard a table setting out the amounts paid by the Commonwealth as compensation in the last 10 years. 

<graphic href="068131197006110_119_0.jpg"></graphic>

It is clear from the table that if the total cost were doubled it would amount to only a little more than an extra $3m. I wish now to deal with seamen's compensation. I said earlier in my remarks that the amount provided in the Bill is about $6,000 less than if the 1911 Act were still in operation. Three years earnings for a seaman at today's average rate would be, I am assured, $18,000, compared to the amount of $12,000 that is now proposed. The amount of $12,000 payable both under the Seamen's Compensation Bill and the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Bill represents a 20% increase on the previous amount of $10,000; but the weekly rates for compensation which are proposed represent an increase of only 8.8% . 
It seems to me to be rather odd that the Government should justify such a small weekly increase when it is recognising the need to increase by 20% the maximum amount and the lump sum for specified injury and for the death of a breadwinner. The Government seems to have recognised its own shortcomings by the fact that it agreed to take out for a seaman employed on the 'Jeparit' separate compensation for an amount of $15,400 over and above the existing sum of $10,000, making a total of $25,400. It is true that the principal reason for that action was that the 'Jeparit' was sailing to a war zone. That is a good enough reason to distinguish between the rates payable on the 'Jeparit' and on other ships. Nonetheless the Government has grudgingly, no doubt, recognised the need for a higher amount. 
Once again the Labor Party complains about the delays which have occurred on the part of the Government in bringing down improved Commonwealth employees compensation provisions. The demand for a better Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act started many years ago. The Labor Party had a special committee which used to meet every week and sometimes twice a week to hammer out a model Bill1. This was away back in 1956 or 1957. We were never afforded the opportunity to present that Bill and that is why we welcome the opportunity which will be opened to us in the Budget session to bring down what we regard as a model Bill in answer to the Government's Bill. 1 place on record some examples of the procrastination which has typified the Government's handling of this matter.  Mr Paul  Munro the Secretary of the Council' of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations has informed me that he wrote to the then Treasurer, now the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon),  on 12th August 1969 complaining that the Act was outdated. He pointed out that it contained real bias against industrial justice. Three years before that  Mr Munro  and, I understand, representatives of the Australian Council of Trade Unions but certainly representatives of the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations met representatives of the Government and urged them to do something about compensation and to treat it as an urgent matter. 
In that letter of 12th August 1969  Mr Munro  reminded the Treasurer that the Government had given repeated assurances that the review of compensation legislation expected by the spokesman to be put into effect since the Budget session of 1965, would be introduced, in the near future. He reminded the Treasurer that he had already stated: 
Further delays of this kind cannot be justified; having regard to the history of vacillation and postponement in relation to the legislation, failure to enact the badly needed changes in the life of this Parliament would amount to disgraceful neglect by this Government of the just claims of injured Commonwealth employees. 
On 28th August 1969 Treasurer McMahon replied to  Mr Paul  Munro: 
I had every intention of introducing the legislation in this Budget session..... but this is nol possible because of the general election. 
Both the basic and transitional legislation will be lengthy and intricate. The delay has not been due to vacillation but to -the drafting problems experienced in the Parliamentary  Draftman's  office. 
On 1st September 1969  Mr Munro  wrote to the Public Service Board requesting the Board to consult with the Treasurer on the long delay in submitting the Bill to the Parliament. On 3rd September 1969  Mr Munro  again wrote to the then AttorneyGeneral, now the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  asking that he consider the order of priorities to enable the Draftsman's attention to be given to the Compensation Bill. On 1 2th September 1969 the Attorney-General replied to  Mr Munro  and stated, amongst other things: 
The preparation of new compensation legislation is a formidable task that requires considerable care and research on the part of the Draftsman and cannot be completed quickly. 
On 20th November 1969  Mr Munro  wrote to the present Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  advising him of the previous correspondence with his -predecessor. He stated that the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations:   . . was deeply distressed that the manifest inadequacies of the Commonweallth Employees Compensation Act have continued for such a long period despite our frequent efforts to secure change. 
To the extern that disadvantages may flow from faulty drafting, these are far outweighed by disadvantages and gross injustice which result and have resulted for years from the continuation of the existing anachronistic legislation. 
On the same day  Mr Munro  again wrote to the Treasurer and enclosed a copy of his letter to the Attorney-General. On 28th November the Treasurer wrote to  Mr Munro  advising him as follows: 
This legislation is being pushed forward at quickly as practicable, but as you know it represents a truly mammoth task of drafting. But it will be introduced in the autumn session. 
On 9th December 1969  Mr Munro  again wrote to the Treasurer expressing the hope that his promise would prove more reliable than previous promises dating back to as early as 1967, as on 19th October 1967 the Senate was told that the Bill would be introduced early in the next session.  Mr Munro  concluded his letter by asking that the Bill be circulated in advance of the session so as to assure its passage during the autumn session or that consideration be given to giving retrospective effect to those provisions of the Bill which the Government in June 1968 promised to include in the new Bill. 
This time  Mr Munro  sent to the Attorney-General a copy of his letter to the Treasurer. On 16th December 1969 the Attorney-General wrote to  Mr Munro  stating that he shared his concern at the length of time taken in the preparation of the Bill and repeating the Treasurer's assurance that considerable progress had been made. The CCPSO has made a comprehensive list of amendments, and ACSPA and many individual unions and lawyers practising in the field of workmen's compensation have done likewise. I expect that in due course the Australian Council of Trade Unions will make submissions, as I said earlier. The Opposition has been working on the question of workmen's compensation for well over 12 years. In 1964 I was assured by the Government through  Mr Holt,  who was then Treasurer, that the Government would be prepared to give earnest consideration to the propositions we then put forward and, because this promise was made, we decided not to press to a division the various amendments we then moved in the Committee stage. On 11th November 1964 I said, as reported in Hansard, the following:  1 have had a talk with the Treasurer on this subject and I understand from him that he is not unfavourably disposed to the suggestion that earnest and serious consideration should be given to the Opposition's proposals. 
What 1 complain about is that the Government did not let the Opposition see a copy of this Bill for a new Act until a fortnight, I think it was, after the session commenced when, according to the Government's print number at the bottom of the Bill, it had been completed last year. This was not the sort of Bill that should have been treated as a kind of political football. It should have been treated in much the same way as the present Chief Justice when AttorneyGeneral treated the Matrimonial Causes Bill, the Marriage Act, the restricted trade practices legislation and the copyright legislation. They were not regarded by  Sir Garfield  Barwick as matters that ought to become the butt of political argument, and it was for this reason that he very properly circulated the Bills so that both sides of this 
House could have a proper opportunity to study them. Perhaps it is not fair to expect the Opposition or those who are advising it on this matter to be able to do in 9 weeks that which the Government has taken 9 years to do. After all, the Secretary and President of the ACTU are both extremely busy men. They have nowhere near the number of staff that they should have. Certainly they have nothing like the staff and facilities that a Minister of the Crown has at his disposal. 
It is not fair to expect the ACTU in 9 weeks to consider and thoroughly understand a Bill that took the Government 9 years to draft. However, I hope and I feel confident and certain that the ACTU will be able to complete its consideration of this Bill now that it is in draft form and is before the officers of the ACTU. They will not have to start from scratch and build something up, consider it and then go through the process again. They have before them something that has already been prepared in draft form. They have only to check that draft, consider it and then let the Opposition know what they think about it. After that is done we will, of course, confer with the officers of the ACTU and consider their views. I hope, therefore, that no impediment will be forthcoming which would prevent this matter being finalised in the spring session of the Parliament. I am hoping that the Government, when it is considering its Bill for a new Act, will be willing to give reasonable consideration to the various amendments that we will be proposing. We know the Government will not agree to all of them but I hope it will agree to most of them. . 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What is the number of clerical classes or levels within the Commonwealth Public Service. 
asked the Prime 
Minister, upon notice: 
Did the Public Service Board last year alter the prescriptions of accountancy qualifications. 
If so, what was the nature of, and the reasons for, such alterations. 
 The Opposition protests against the way the Bill is being rushed through Parliament without a proper opportunity to debate it. Conciliation and arbitration is far too important a question to be hurried through the Parliament with such undue haste as this Bill is being hurried through. This was an opportunity for the Parliament to make conciliation and arbitration work, and we have got to make it work if we are to avoid industrial chaos and a continuation of the kind of industrial disputation that has marked the last 10 or 20 years. Arbitration can be made to work, but it will not be made to work unless this Parliament gets down and grapples with the problem in a businesslike fashion. I am certain I could make arbitration work. Given time to explain what I believe to be the weakness of the arbitration system; I am certain I could convince the Parliament that there Ls a way of making it work. Indeed, I would be prepared to gamble on my reputation as one with a fairly good knowledge of industrial relations that, if my propositions were adopted, conciliation and arbitration and industrial peace would become a reality in this country. 
The Government has taken one step towards the settlement of industrial disputes as a consequence of the tripartite agreement made between the employers, the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Government itself; but that agreement, which in outline is quite good I believe, will fail because not sufficient attention has been given to some of the details. Nothing has been done to protect the rank and file man in industry from victimisation; nothing has been done to protect the shop steward from victimisation. Moreover, nothing has been done to define the term 'industrial safety problems'. What are they? The term is just a vague abstract thing in the agreement which could mean anything. I think both the employers of Australia and the unions of Australia will be bitterly disappointed when they read tomorrow's newspapers and find that the most vital piece of legislation to which this Parliament could possibly apply itself was pushed through the Parliament when most of the members were away and when everybody was in haste to get home. Even as I am speaking now, members on the other side are glaring at me as though I have no right even to take the time' necessary to say what I am now saying. I believe that this is the wrong atmosphere and that it is the wrong sort of timetable in which to deal with this sort of matter. 
Debate interrupted: 
 We have no objectionto these clauses because, generally speaking, they give a paid employee the right to appear before the Commission, and we favour that. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 13.  (I.) Section 109 of the Principal Act is amended - 
by omitting paragraph (a) of sub-section (I.): 
by omitting from paragraph (b) of subsection (1.) the words "or a breach or nonobservance of an award"; 
by omitting from sub-section (2.) the words "tinder paragraph (a) or (b)" and inserting in their stead the words "under paragraph (b)"; and 
by omitting sub-section (3.). (2.) Upon the commencement of this Act, an order of the Commonwealth Industrial Court in force under paragraph (a) of sub-section (1.) of section 109 of the Principal Act or an order of that Court in force under paragraph (b) of that sub-section enjoining an organisation or person from committing or continuing a breach or nonobservance of an award ceases to have effect but nothing in this Act affects any penalty imposed by that Court before the commencement of this Act in respect of a contempt of that Court that consisted of a failure to comply with such an order. 
 I move: 
After clause 16, insert the following clause: - 16a. Section 116 of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section inserted in its stead: - "116. A party to- 
a proceeding before the Court, the Commission or the Registrar; or 
a proceeding before the High Court- 
being an appeal from a judgment, decree, order or sentence of the Court; or 
being a proceeding in respect of an award made or purporting to have been made, a decision given or purporting to have been given or any other act done or purporting to have been done under this Act or in respect of a failure to make an award, give a decision or do any other act that is required by this Act to be made, given or done, shall not be ordered to pay any costs incurred by any other party to that proceeding.".'. 
I move: 
Omit the clause, insert the following clause: "13.- (1.) Section 109 of the Principal Act is repealed. "(2.) Upon the commencement of this Act, an order of the Commonwealth Industrial Court in force under section 109 of the Principal Act ceases to have effect.". 
I believe that section 109 should be repealed altogether. In fact, in the new legislation section 109 will not have much work to do at all. As it is such an obnoxious section and such a blot on the statute book of a free country, it should be wiped out. For that reason, I have moved my amendment which would also make it impossible to collect fines already imposed. 
Question put: 
That the clause proposed to be omitted  (Mr Clyde Cameron's)  stand part of the Bill. 
asked the Treasurer,  upon notice: 
Will the Government give urgent consideration to setting up machinery for securing statistics relating to over-award payments in the nonGovernmental work force in Australia. 
asked the Prime 
Minister, upon notice: 
What is the backlog of unheard and/or unfinished claims now before the (a) Public Service Board and (b) Public Service Arbitrator and his deputies. 
The Bill takes away from the court the power to issue an injunction under section 109 of the Act against an organisation or person to observe an award. Section J 1 1 at present provides penalties of $1,000 for a union, $400 or gaol for an official  of the union, and $100 for a rank and file member or a shop steward of a union for contempt of such order. These penal provisions are to bc transferred to section 119 of the Act :n a form th'.i makes it unnecessary for an employer to first of all obtain an injunction before proceeding to have, the new penalties imposed. The only difference is that the matter must first be reported to a presidential member, but after this is done - that is, after the presidential member has looked at it - and a certificate has been issued stating that the matter is one that comes within the requirements of thu Act, the court can then bc called upon to impose a fine of $1,000 on a union official instead of the present $400 maximum fine and of $1,000 on a rank and file member of a union or shop steward instead of the present $100 fine. 
The only exception there will be to this will be in cases where a special provision  k  written into an award that each day of a dispute shall be treated as a separate dispute, so that if the dispute lasted for only I day the maximum fine for a union or official, shop steward, job representative or rank and file member of a union would be reduced to $500, but if the dispute lasted  for S  days the maxima would become $2,500 for even  a  rank and file unionist or shop steward who was in breach of the award or Act. Similarly, should the dispute last for a fortnight the maximum fine applicable to a union, union official, shop steward or even a rank and file member would be no less than $5,000 in respect of I dispute. 
The Bill will preserve all existing bans clauses written into awards by Conciliation Commissioners but will provide that in future only  a  presidential member will have power to write  a  bans clause into an award. If it is now recognised that it is wrong in principal for  a  Commissioner to write  a  bans clause into an award, the Government should have provided that existing bans already put there by Commissioners should have no effect, as it has in fact done in respect of court injunctions currently in force under the provisions of section 109 of the Act. However, the Government has deliberately set out to incite discontent rather than to allay it by writing into the Bill a provision that all fines still outstanding shall continue to be enforceable. I think costs should not have been permitted by the Government when it was amending the Act, because when costs are permitted against parties appearing before the court they are very often greater than the fines and, indeed, the costs can be a deterrent against a unionist seeking his lawful rights under the Act. 
With the concurrence of honourable members, I incorporate in Hansard a table showing the amount of fines and costs imposed upon various trade unions since 1957 for offences that should have been dealt with under section 119, which fixes a maximum penalty of $200. 

<graphic href="068131197006121_54_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="068131197006121_59_7.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="068131197006121_65_13.jpg"></graphic>

With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard a table supplied by the Minister to me some time ago setting out the amounts of fines imposed upon employers for breaches of section 1 19. These range from $1. Some cases were dis missed and some offenders were let off with a warning. The average penalty is of the order of $20. 

<graphic href="068131197006121_67_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="068131197006121_68_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="068131197006121_69_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="068131197006121_70_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="068131197006121_71_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="068131197006121_72_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="068131197006121_73_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="068131197006121_74_0.jpg"></graphic>

This Bill is claimed by the Press to be consequential upon the Government's new proposal for the settlement of industrial disputes under which shop stewards will play a much more important role than in the past. The ACTU disputes the assertion that the Bill is part of a deal made recently with the Government and employers for the settlement of disputes and has asked the Opposition to vote against it. This is what we propose to do if the 3 amendments that we propose to move are not adopted by the Committee and incorporated in the Bill. The Government also denies that the Bill is connected with the agreement. Wilh the concurrence of honourable members, I incorporate in Hansard the text of the agreement to which 1 have referred. 
FRiNCIIM.ES FOR GUIDANCE IN ESTABLISHING AND USING EFFECTIVE PROCEDURES FOR AVOIDING AND SETTLING INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES 
The following conditions are required to make the means for avoiding and settling industrial disputes effective: 
There shall be effective means of consultation between employees and (heir employees and unions on all matters of mutual interest and concern, irrespective of whether these matters are likely to give rise lo dispute. Particular attention shall bc given lo both the informal and formal means of consultation between management and employees. 
Failure lo observe this fundamental principle of consultation would be contrary to the intentions of these procedures and a dispute about failure to consult would be covered by these procedures. 
* By way of illustration, it is noted that the principle of consultation is embodied in tile recommendations of the National Labour Advisory Council in ils pamphlet 'Adjusting to Technological Change'. 
Quoting from the phamphlet: 'Acceptance of responsibility by employers while planning the introduction of technological innovations: 
To consult with employes through their union officials about, and give as much notice as possible, of the contemplated change.' 
The sell lenient of disputes procedures to be observed need to be defined and made known lo employers and employees and accepted by employers and unions. 
The procedures should cover all matters in dispute and should cover disputes at the plant, industry, State and national levels. 
The parties should be obliged to make every endeavour lo facilitate the effective functioning of the procedures. 
Unions and employers should notify to each other in writing the names of their duly accredited job representatives who would bc responsible, in the first instance, for dealing wilh matters arising on the job. The job representative of the union thus accredited would be the only person entitled lo make representations on behalf of members of his union employed by the employer and the employer representative thus accredited would be responsible for dealing with matters raised by the union job representative: Provided that these arrangements would not restrict an employer or a duly authorised official of an employers organisation or a duly authorised official of a union making representations to each other. 
The accredited union job representative and employer representative should make themselves available for consultation as required under the procedures. 
The accredited union job representative should discuss any matter affecting the employees he represents wilh the foreman or supervisor in charge of the work. 
If the matter is not resolved at this level the union job representative should ask for the matter to be referred to the employer's representative nominated under (e), above, who shall arrange a conference to discuss the matter. 
Such conference should commence within 24 hours or within such longer or shorter period as is agreed between the accredited representatives of the union and of the employer. 
II the matter is not resolved at (he conference convened under paragraph (h), the union representative shall advise the appropriate local official of the union he represents of the matter in issue and a conference on the matter will be arranged to be attended by such official or officials and the union job representative concerned as the union may decide and by the designated employer's representative and such other representatives of the employer, including his Association, as the employer may decide. 
If a matter cannot be resolved when the procedures referred to above have been availed of, the employer and the Union should enter into consultation about it at a higher level, on the employer and union sides, as the parties consider appropriate. 
Al any stage in the procedures after consultation between the parties has taken place in accordance with the procedures, either party may ask for and be entitled lo receive a response to his representations willim a reasonable time. If there is undue delay on the part of the other party in responding lo representations, the parry complaining of delay may, after giving notice of bis intention to do so, lake the matter to a higher level in the procedures on his side. 
Without prejudice to either party, and except where a bona fide safety issue is involved, work should continue in accordance with the award or agreement existing between the parties while matters in dispute between them are being negotiated in good faith. 
Where a bona fide safety issue is involved, the employer and the appropriate Safety Authority must be notified concurrently or at least a bona fide attempt made to se notify that Authority. 
At any stage of the procedures, the parties may seek the assistance of a Conciliator, a member of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission or some mutually acceptable person. 
Parties could not have recourse to the formal processes of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act until they bad endeavoured to resolve the issue between them in full accordance with these procedures. 
In the event of a party failing to observe these procedures, the other party may take such steps as are open to him to resolve the matter. 
I direct particular attention to the paragraphs from (e) to fi) inclusive. These are excellent propositions. I agree that some thing along these lines should be tried. This would go a long way towards easing the tensions that now build up in industry when they are not resolved by early remedy, lt is like any disease. If you want to cure it before it kills you, you must get in early. So it is with industrial disputes. We see no reason to criticise this. However, 1 criticise the Government, which is calling upon shop stewards to play this very important role now required of them, for not taking steps to protect them adequately from victimisation when carrying out their job. The best way to lose a job in industry is to be a good enough shop steward to convey to the boss all the complaints heard on the job. The unfortunate thing is that when a shop steward does that, the employer may accuse him of being a stirrer and agitator when in point of fact he is merely acting as spokesman for the men with whom he :s working. Because so many shop stewards have been dismissed for merely doing what the agreement now asks them to do, they are loath lo carry out their functions fearlessly, as they ought to be free to do. 1 believe the Government was gravely remiss in failing to attend to section 5 of the Act. This is the appropriate section for writing in lo the law the kind of protection for shop stewards about which I am now talking. It is not that the Government does not know about it. With the concurrence of the House I incorporate in Hansard the full text of section 5 of the Act. 
(I.) An employer shall not dismiss an employee, or injure him in his employment, or alter his position to his prejudice, by reason of the circumstance that the employee - 
is an officer, delegate or member of an ororganization, or of an association that has applied to be registered as an organization; or 
is entitled lo the benefit of an industrial agreement or ah award; or 
has appeared as a witness, or has given my evidence, in a proceeding under this Act; or 
being a member of an organization which is seeking better industrial conditions, is dissatisfied with his conditions; or 
has absented himself from work without leave if - 
his absence was for the purpose of carrying out his duties or exercising his rights as an officer or delegate of an organization: and 
he applied for leave before he absented himself and leave was unreasonably refused or withheld. 
Penalty: One hundred dollars. (U.) An employer shall not threaten to dismiss an employee, or to injure him in his employment, or lo alter his position to his prejudice - 
by reason of the circumstance that the employee is, or proposes to become, an officer, delegate or member of an organization, or of an association that has applied to be registered as an organization, or that the employee proposes to appear as a witness or to give evidence in a proceeding under this Act; or 
wilh the intent to dissuade or prevent the employee from becoming such officer, delegate or member or from so appearing or giving evidence. 
Penally: One hundred dollars. (2.) An employee shall not cease work in the service of his employer by reason of the circumstance thai the employer - 
is an officer, delegate or member of an organization or of an association that has applied to bc registered as an organization; or 
is entitled to the benefit of an industrial agreement or an award: or 
has appeared as a witness, or has given any evidence, in a proceeding under this Act. 
Penally: Fifty dollars. (4). In any proceeding for an offence against this section, if nil the facts and circumstances constituting the offence, other than the reason for the defendant's action, are proved it shall lie upon the defendant to prove that he was not actuated by the reason alleged in the charge. (5.) Where an employer has been convicted of an offence against this section the court by which the employer is convicted may order that the employee be reimbursed any wages lost by him and may also direct that the employee be reinstated in his old position or in a similar position. lt appears at first blush thai section 5 gives protection against victimisation, lt certainly appears to bc a section thai gives protection against a boss sacking a man for joining  a  union. But when one looks at it more closely one finds that this is not so. As usual, the judges on the Industrial Court, like judges everywhere else, are always anxious to show that they are superior to the draftsmen and always anxious to show that Parliament does not know how to express itself when it wants something done. Their usual hypercritical attitude towards the meaning of words has ruined this section by the interpretation that they have given to it. The Court's interpretation is a most ridiculous interpretation if ever there was one, and it has come from judges who pretend that when they interpret the law they are always guided by the principle of commonsense. 
I invite honourable members to listen to this example of commonsense. Here is a judgment made by the Full Industrial Court in the case of Gietzelt v. Craig-Williams Pty Ltd in 1959. Among other things, the judgment contains these gems of wisdom from the Chief Justice. He was speaking about the kind of conduct of which the employer was guilty when he sacked a person for joining a union. It was admitted by the evidence that the person was sacked because he joined the union. He then took action against the employer. I will read to the House what the judge said section 5 meant. Perhaps he was technically right, but who wants to live on technicalities. We have too many technicalities, and that is the trouble with the arbitration and conciliation system. This is what the Chief Justice said in the last paragraph of the judgment 
This course of conduct was clearly contrary to the spirit if not the letter of section 5. A good deal of evidence placed before us related to this aspect of the matter. In these circumstances although the charge in my opinion must fail because of the failure of the informant to prove a threat to dismiss I would dismiss the summons but make no order as to costs. 
Of course,  Mr Justice  Dunphy agreed with that. He said: 
I agree with his decision and 1 adopt his reasons. 
But let us look at what the Act says. Section 5 of the Act says: 
An employer shall nol dismiss an employee, or injure him in his employment, or alter his position to his prejudice, by reason of the circumstance that the employee - is a member of an organisation. 
Sub-section (1a.) then states: 
An employer shall not threaten to dismiss an employee, or to injure him in his employment, or to alter his position to his prejudice- 
For instance because he is a shop steward or a member of the union. The learned judges say that that only means he cannot threaten him. If he sacks him without the threat it is okay.  Mr Justice  Morgan, for whose knowledge of the law I have a profound respect, very reluctantly had to admit that in his opinion that is what it meant. 
At least he was consistent enough to say that in his opinion the union which took the complaint against the boss for sacking the person without threatening him and therefore acted in accordance with a legal right of the employer to do this ought to be made to pay the boss's costs. 
I asked the Minister's predecessor whether he would do something to alter this section of the Act in such a way that it would no longer be possible for a boss to sack a man for joining a union or for taking part in union activities. I think to merely say that he cannot threaten to do these things but that it is lawful to do them without threat is ridiculous. The Minister said: I do not know what you are talking about. Will you tell me something more about your question?' In answer to a request of his that if I knew of any case would I please tell him, I wrote to him as follows: 
I refer to your answer to Question No. 936 in which you ask for details of any incidents where dismissal has occurred under the circumstances mentioned in my question. I refer you to the classic case of Gietzelt v. Craig-Williams Pty Ltd (No. 1) (F.L.R. p. 456), and Gietzelt v. Craig-Williams Pty Ltd (No. 2) (F.L.R. p. 465). Trusting that the foregoing will assist you in seeing the need for the amendment which my question suggests. 
Yours Sincerely, 
Yes, I agree with the honourable member. I now take the case of the Building Workers Industrial Union v. Clements Langford Ltd. A union representative had been dismissed for informing the timekeeper that he was leaving the job for a short time, on the ground that his action was contrary to a company rule that no employee must leave a job without the permission of the foreman. The company went on to claim that the union representative had abused the foreman. What a terrible thing it is for these wild, red blooded men of spunk to be abusing each other. But he did it, so the foreman presumably sulked in the corner and said: 'He has abused me so I will sack him*. The union told Commissioner Findlay that its representative had been provoked into using bad language by the foreman and that, as a union representative, he had been deliberately victimised by the company. In giving his decision the Commissioner stated that as the union representative had absented himself without proper authority his dismissal was justified. 
In the case of Manufacturing Grocers Employees Union of Australia v. Cede! Products (Australia) Ltd a female employee had been appointed as a shop steward and had been dismissed. Commissioner Matthews, who heard the matter, was told by the union that female employees were not allowed a rest period as prescribed by the award; that uniforms were not provided in accordance with the award; that amenities were not provided in accordance with the award, and that there was no covering on the concrete floor as required under the award. The employer's defence was that the shop steward had been dismissed because of a reduction in her output of work. The employer admitted that overalls had not been supplied and he admitted that there was no covering on the floor. The Commissioner decided to make no order. 
There is also the case of the Federated Ironworkers Association of Australia v. Granock Engineering Co. Pty Ltd. This involved a union delegate who had been dismissed by the company on the ground that shortage of work necessitated a retrenchment of 2 ironworkers. The delegate's fellow members on the job claimed that their delegate had been retrenched out of seniority and was being victimised on account of his union activities. Commissioner Apsey, after hearing the parties and conferring privately, said that he had no jurisdiction to order the reinstatement of the retrenched union delegate. 
I am asking for jurisdiction. But the Government will not give it. Yet it expects the arbitration system to work when there is no jurisdiction and, it seems, no inclination on the part of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission through its commissioners to give adequate protection against victimisation of shop stewards. 
I now refer to the Clothing and Allied Trades Union of Australia v. Harmony Products Pty Ltd. An employee who had been underpaid for annual leave and public holidays and who had been wrongfully stood down for 2 days without pay had complained to the union about the matter and was subsequently dismissed due to insufficient work. The union claimed that the dismissal occurred as a result of the employee's union activities and that as a member of the union she should have received preference of employment when the retrenchment was made.  Mr S.  G. Hastings,  Chairman  of the Board of Reference slated that the employer had accepted the onus of proof concerning the dismissal, but after hearing certain evidence it was agreed not to submit any further evidence to the Board and tha; on the next occasion when the employer wished to engage another employee he should offer the vacancy to the dismissed employee if, in the opinion of the company, the work could he satisfactorily performed by her. As a result.  Mr Hastings  decided to take no action. 
The next case is Australasian Meat Industry Employees Union v. Thos. Borthwick &amp; Sons (Australia) Ltd. An employee wilh 21 years service as a boner was dismissed for ceasing work earlier than the normal time. The  Chairman  of the Board of Reference,  Mr M.  J. Mansini, stated that evidence had established beyond any doubt that the dismissed delegate of the union had completed the correct mini mum number of quarters for the day. However, he said that he was guilty of misconduct in leaving his place of work before finishing time, and he considered that there was no foundation for the suggestion that the employer had victimised him because of his union activities in the boning room. Always the employer can find some reason which appears to justify the action taken. Always the employer can sieze upon a misdemeanour on the part of a union representative and close his eyes to the same sort of thing happening all round the factory. Everybody knows that employers are not saints and everybody knows that there are employees in industry who are not saints. But after all, they are not kids going to kindergarten. They are all grown up men who will not be regimented like poorly paid mercenaries who are made to act at though they are robots. Of course the employees will do things which the employers are pleased to condemn as indiscretions and misconduct, but why should an employer see a union delegate doing these things and not be able to see the other 400 or 500 men who are also doing the same thing? 
Consider the case of the Federated Engine Drivers' and Firemen's Association of Australasia v. the Minister of State for the Navy. Here we have the Commonwealth, a party to the award, being responsible for victimisation. A union delegate had been dismissed for allegedly using foul language and refusing to perform his normal duties. What a terrible thing! A man working in Cockatoo Dock had the audacity and, shall we say, insensitivity to use foul language, lt must have been a shock to hear foul language in a dockyard. Anyway, it was sufficient for him to be dismissed. Commissioner McCreadie made this important statement: 
The true function of a union delegate or shop steward is, of course, a very important one in which he looks after the interests of his fellow members which, if not dealt with satisfactorily, can lead lo serious events. Bill, refusal of duly or other such serious matters arc noi the prerogative of a delegate. The job delegate or shop steward is not a union official; he therefore should refer important matters, or those which he considers are likely to develop into serious matters, to his union for attention.  Such  mailers are properly dealt with by union officials with their wider experience, knowledge and  understanding  of union policy. A stop steward or delegate who understands his functions and their limitations can, as most do, perform very useful work on  behalf of his union and its members, and make a valuable contribution to good industrial relations in an establishment. 
The Commissioner then went on to say that the evidence of foul language could be left to one side. At least the Commissioner was a man of the soil. He was satisfied, however, that the delegate had, on repeated occasions, refused to perform his normal duties and that the management of the Garden Island dockyards had acted with justification when it dismissed him. 
In the case of the Federated Rubber and Allied Workers Union of Australia v. Clyde Batteries Pty Ltd Commissioner Hood found that there was no justification for suggesting that the retrenchment of the Union's shop steward was unjust or harsh in any measure even though the purported retrenchment on the ground of economic recession has taken place - that was the excuse given for his dismissal - while other employees with shorter service had been retained. 
In the case of the Australasian Meat Industry Employees Union v. Amagraze Ltd a union delegate was dismissed and 32 boners who had attended a union meeting to discuss the dismissal were also dismissed and their accrued annual leave credits were cancelled. The company finally agreed to restore the leave credits but the  Chairman  of the Board of Reference,  Mr Mansini,  told the Union that the concession granted by the company rested entirely in the hands of the company. If the company gave it, he said, it was free to take it away at any time it chose. 
In the case of the Boilermakers' and Blacksmiths' Society of Australia v. World Services and Construction Co. Pty Ltd Commissioner Hood, after hearing submissions concerning the dismissal of a union delegate, held that the dismissal had been justified on the established facts of the case. 
In the case of the Clothing and Allied Trades Union of Australia v. A. A. Ellis &amp; Sutton Pty Ltd 3 girls were dismissed allegedly because of their activities as union delegates. Commissioner Findlay heard submissions and after conferring privately with the parties announced that he was satisfied that the employer had exercised an award right in discharging the delegates. He said that there was no evidence to substantiate the charge that the girls were dismissed on account of union activities. 
In the case of the Australian Textile Workers Union v. Stirling Henry Pty Ltd a union delegate with 8 years' service had been put on to a new job which carried a rate of pay which the delegate considered unsatisfactory. In protest the delegate returned to his former job and was instantly dismissed, with a week's pay in Heu of notice. The delegate told Commissioner Findlay that the company had asked him to give up his job as union delegate and that he had been victimised because he refused to do so. The Commissioner said that, as the union delegate had returned to his old job without authority, his services could be terminated and in the circumstances he was not prepared to do anything about the matter. 
I recall that section 5 of the Act says that nobody shall be disadvantaged, dismissed or made to suffer injury. Surely it is a disadvantage to be shifted from a job that one likes with pay that one likes to a job that one docs not like with pay that one does not like. Surely it is a disadvantage to tell a precision toolmaker that he has to clean the toilets and be satisfied with the lower rate of pay as well as the dirtier work. Yet according to these judgments, a person can be transferred from the toolmaking shop to look after the toilets as a form of lawful punishment. If he refuses to do the work, all the employer has to say is that he refused to carry out a direction and there is then full justification for sacking him. 
In the case of the Amalgamated Engineering Union (Australian Section) v. Adelaide Steamship Co., a shop steward with 6 years' service was dismissed on the ground that a slackness of work necessitated retrenchments. But of those retained in the service of the company 1 was over the retiring age and another had less than I year's service. When the matter went before Commissioner Portus the company changed its tune and said that the steward was dismissed because on a number of occasions he had not been on the job, that he had been found in the lunchroom during working hours and that he had been away from his work a dozen times in  2i  years. The company admitted that he had never been warned that these alleged misdemeanours might lead to his dismissal. The Commissioner, however, said that the fact that the foreman had not warned the steward of the consequences of absence from work was not significant. Nor did he think it significant that one of the employees retained had less than I year's experience; he said that it did not take long for a good worker to become efficient as a tradesman's assistant. The Commissioner said he was satisfied that there were good grounds for the employee's dismissal and that no discrimination had been made against him on the ground that he was a shop steward. 
No wonder tradesman's assistants are noi able to get wage justice from the Commonwealth Arbitration Commission when Commissioners make stupid statements like that - that any person with average intelligence can become a good tradesman's assistant in a very short time. When we talk about people leaving their job for a few minutes, people being in the toilet when they ought not to be or being there too long, and people being in the lunchroom when they should not be there. I wonder how many of the foremen stick rigidly to the timetables set by their management and how many of the directors of a company stick to the office desk for the working hours that the employees are being dismissed for not observing. 1 could give many more similar cases of where a commission or a  chairman  of the Board had pleaded lack of power or indicated lack of inclination to take all steps necessary to prevent victimisation of a union delegate, shop steward or job representative. This nonsense, this hypocrisy that we hear from employers whenever cases of victimisation are being dealt with ought not to be tolerated. 1 remind the House of the decision made by  Mr Commissioner  McCreadie in the case of the Federated Engine Drivers and Firemen's Association of Australasia v. the Minister of State for the Navy. 
The agreement that this Government has made with the ACTU and the employers will not allow the shop steward to do the things that are necessary for him to do, and if he continues to do the things which the agreement calls upon him to do then this decision of  Mr Commissioner  McCreadie - which in the terms of the Act as it now stands is probably in accordance with the technical provisions of the Act - would continue to apply. No shop steward or union delegate in the future could be expected to carry out the role required of him under  the  provisions of the new agreement unless he is guaranteed proper protection from victimisation. For these reasons we will oppose the second reading of the Bill. We will move our amendments in Committee and if they are rejected we will vote against  the  third reading. 

 Mr WEBB (Stirling) 4.31]  -  I rise to support the views that have been expressed by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Civile Cameron)  and also to support the repeal of the offending sections 109 and III of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. This Act has been subjected to more amendments than any other Act on the statute book. There have been over 50 amendments since 1904. lt is a most controversial piece of legislation and seems to have created as many disputes as it has solved. The first 2 sections of the Act are most important Section 1 stales: 
This Act may be cited as the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
Section 2 states: 
The chief objectives of the Aci are: 
lo promote good will in industry. 
lo encourage conciliation with a view to amicable agreement, thereby preventing and settling industrial disputes. 
In the Bill we are now debating the Government at long last lays stress on conciliation and negotiation before proceeding with sanctions. The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  in his second reading speech said:   . . before action can be taken to use the new sanctions process the Commission will attempt to resolve the issues that lie between the parties. I believe that the existing sanctioning process which involves the use of the Court's injunction making powers under section 109 and its power to punish for contempt under section 111, are no longer appropriate or desirable.  1  believe they suffer from two main deficiencies. Firstly, there is the immediacy of their availability. Secondly, they did not allow the Court to take hold of the dispute between the parties and endeavour lo assist the parlies to resolve that dispute.  lt has taken the Minister and the Government many years to realise that the main objective of this Act is to encourage conciliation with a view to amicable agreement. It is doubtful whether these amendments will achieve the objective which the Government claims is its aim. 
The Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Australian Labor Party have been urging for years that the sanction provisions in sections 109 and 1 1 1 should be repealed, but we did not want them repealed and then re-inserted in a different section of the Act, as is being done, in effect, so far as the amendment of section 109 is concerned. Some amendments of the Act were made in 1965 which provided for a cooling off period, but as we said during that debate, the amendments did not go far enough and they turned out to be useless. This could well be the case with the present amendments. We moved in 1965 for the repeal of the injunction and related contempt provisions. Had our amendments been accepted we would not have been faced with the disastrous industrial trouble of May 1968. A ray of light appeared when the Government did not insert these penal provisions, as it was contemplating doing, in the Public Service Arbitration Act when it was amended during March 1969. During that debate and a debate to increase the number of judges of the Commonwealth Industrial Court, which took place at about the same time, speakers on this side of the House again urged the repeal of the penal provisions. The offending sections have created more strikes than they have settled. Consequently the reason for their insertion in the Act has proved abortive and their repeal is long overdue. When the so called cure prolongs the disease surely it is thru1 to try a new cure. The Government claims it is trying something new on this occasion but it appears to us not to be a cure hut merely a palliative. 
Some employers have been sheltering behind these punitive provisions and their actions have been responsible for creating and extending disputes rather than bringing about a settlement. One would think that the inflicting of penalties was an end in itself, ignoring entirely that the end is to settle industrial disputes as quickly as possible and not to extend them by the imposition of severe penalties. It has to be realised that the Act we are dealing with is the Conciliation and Arbitration Act Conciliation comes first. It is placed before arbitration in its importance in the Act. The placing of the word 'conciliation' before the word 'arbitration' is clearly significant. The Government, the employers and a lot of other people have been ignoring this, and this is the first admission by the Government that conciliation at least comes first. 
The Act provides for conciliators and commissioners but it doss not say that the whole process of conciliation should be done exclusively by them. Section 31 of the Act provides for the likelihood that the parties to an industrial dispute may themselves arrive at agreement to govern their industrial relationships. The section does noi say anything about the way in which they should do it. Section 32 of the Act goes on to say that if no agreement is arrived at the Commission shall determine the dispute. The strike by Qantas employees earl;, in 1964 was settled by an outside mediator. This was special arrangement and it served its purpose; the dispute was settled. That should always be the aim. Much more con ciliation is required. Conciliation means bringing the paries to a dispute together into harmony so that their differences mav be settled amicably. 
Some sections of the existing Act operate against conciliation. There is a bad section in the Act, and I refer to section 31 (3.) which provides, inter aiia, that the arbitration authority may refuse to certify an agreement if il is of the opinion that 'it is not in the public interest thai the agreement should be certified'. Who is to define public interest? The words 'public interest' mean a lol of different things to a lol of different people. Surely it is ;n the public interest to settle a strike or an industrial dispute as quickly as possible. Negotiation and con ciliation should not necessarily cease when the commissioners finally arrive al a deci sion. There are still avenues open for furthe negotiations 
The Government and the employers must realise thai the Commission sets down mini mum standards. After the minimum standards have been established we come to what has been referred to by the  President  of the Commission as the collective bargaining area The  President  in his I96f&gt; report said: 
It has long been obvious that arbitration foi minimum payments and bargaining for  ove  award payments must co-exist in this community 
He went on to say in that report: 
The problems and difficulties should noi obscure the fact that there is no real incompatibility in the mutual existence of a system prescribing minimum rates by arbitration tribunals and of bargaining on occasion about over-award payments. 
Some of the employers refuse to negotiate and consequently the conciliation function of the Act fails to operate. There is a certain amount of one-sidedness in our method of controlling wages and industrial conditions. 
Let me refer to wages. This Government believes that the price of labour should be controlled and all the forces of our legal machinery are used to prevent the workers from putting their own price for their labour. The unions have to go to the arbitration tribunals and argue their case and support it by evidence. The employers present their case in opposition to any increase. The workers are placed in a difficult position. They have to abide by the decision. But what happens then? The employers increase their prices to cover the increased cost of wages. They do this at their own whim. Decisions are arrived at in private - without evidence - without a case being heard in opposition. Often they combine with other firms selling a similar product and collectively fix the price of similar articles. As a matter of fact, the Arbitration Commission in its 1964 basic wage decision emphasised that there was no control of other incomes and 'no overall authoritative control of prices'. Increases gained by workers to offset already increased costs can be swallowed up by the employer merely increasing his prices. Those who take huge sums by way of profits and interest payments from the national income take them without having te justify their actions to anyone. No charge is ever made that these companies are taking too much from the national income and thereby endangering the economy and causing production and living costs to rise. 
Is it any wonder that workers become dissatisfied and disgruntled and threaten to strike in order to gel their wrongs righted? Workers have a right to complain about the time lag thai lakes place to have their grievances heard and remedied. At times employers deliberately lodge appeals against decisions of commissioners in order to delay paying increased salaries or giving improved conditions. A glaring example is the equal pay case which was deliberately delayed by reference to the High Court. The employers know that each day's delay means the saving of millions of dollars in the long run if the equal pay decision is favourable to the workers. The strike weapon is not illegal in Great Britain or the United States. Neither is it illegal here. The Conciliation and Arbitration Act does not prohibit strikes. It did so up until 1930 when the prohibition was removed. It is true the Commission has power to include in its award a ban on strikes. That is where the trouble starts. I emphasise to the House that one cannot expect a system of industrial arbitration to eliminate entirely strikes and other forms of direct action. If anyone believes that, they are attributing to arbitration a function which it cannot possibly fulfil. 
Laws are much more easily applied by the State to individuals for the settlement of disputes than they are to exercise compulsion over powerful organisations such as a trade union. This is a powerful section of the community. A huge majority of people accept the fact that the common law and criminal law courts are enforcing a law which they agree with. But the field of industrial conflict is different. No sei principle exists as to what is fair, reasonable or just. The arbitration system deals with questions on which the community as a whole is divided into 2 camps. Workers and employers have their own views on what is reasonable or just. There is no doubt about the value and importance of our conciliation and arbitration system but it is ridiculous to think that it could usher in a reign of peace in industrial relations. No-one will deny the value and importance of international law. but conflicts arise between States which are so severe thai all observance of the law is swept away. Hundreds of issues arise which are successfully settled by our arbitration courts but they cannot settle all of them. 
The system would be strengthened if this Government accepted the reality of the situation. Issues and conflicts exist which are so acute that no court could hope to impose an acceptable solution. I suggest to the Attorney-General that the deletion of the injunction and contempt provisions of this Act does not mean that there are no other avenues open to the Commission to deal with unions if they feel disposed to deal with them. Section 119 is available. This section is used when the courts want to discipline employers. They turn to sections 109 and 111 when they want to discipline the unions. These sect:ons contain the contempt provisions. Section ]43U )(h) contains provisions for the deregistration of a union under certain conditions. Since 1958 industrial action has been included as one of the grounds upon which the court can act. Deregistration can apply also where an organisation has wilfully neglected to obey an order of the court. A new ground, which was added in 1958, provides for deregistration for continued breach or non-observance of an award or for an organisation's continued failure to ensure that its members comply with an award. Prior to 1958 the court had discretion to deregister, but the section now provides that upon one of the grounds being made out the court 'shall deregister unless it considers to do so could be unjust'. This in itself is a severe punishment because it deprives the organisation and its members of the benefit or protection of the award; the award ceases to have any force or effect. Previously  Mr Justice  Higgins held the view that deregistration left the award in operation but un ons could not take action for breaches of the award. In my view, and in the view of reasonable people, the power to deregister should be sufficient in itself to discipline a union if that is regarded as necessary. 
 However other avenues are available to the Commiss on in the present Act. Section 41 (c) entitles the Commission to fix maximum penalties for a breach or nonobservance of an award. The penalty is $200 for an organisation and $20 for a member. The section with which we are concerned now, namely section 1 19, relates fo the enforcement of orders and awards and provides for maximum penalties being imposed by magistrates in local courts. As 1 said a short while ago, this is the section under which employers who offend are punished. Section 62 provides for the cancellation or suspension of an award if it appears that an organisation entitled to the benefits of an award has committed a breach or non-observance of the Act, an award or a court order, or that a substantial number of members of an organisation refused to accept employment either at all or in accordance with existing awards or for any other reason'. The words 'for any other reason' are broad enough to cover a multitude of sins. 
So we see that under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act there are disciplinary powers possessed by the court apart from the penal provisons which the Minister still claims the right to use under the name of sanctions and which we suggest should be repealed. Surely what 1 have said indicates that there is sufficient power available in the existing legislation without the use of the penal provsions. it is psychologically bad to have the penal provisions in the Act. Better industrial relations are not possible while they exist. I repeat what the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has said: We oppose the Bill and support the repeal of the sanction provisions in the existing Act. 
 I rise to make it quite clear now, if I have not already made it clear, that there is on the part of the Opposition an outright denunciation of the sanctions against unions and against people who have only their labour to sell. We are completely and utterly opposed to the penal provisions of the Act, as the Australian Council of Trade Unions is opposed to them. There is a good reason why there should not be sanctions or penalties against those who have only their labour to sell. This stems from the fact that as a general rule the economic position of the individual worker is too weak for him to hold his own in the unequal contest for a fair share of what he produces. I quote now from a judgment of  Mr Justice  Higgins in the Engine Drivers case contained in the fifth volume of the Commonwealth Arbitration reports at page 27.  Mr Justice  Higgins said: 
The power of the employer to withhold bread is a much more effective weapon than the power of the employee to refuseto labour. 
The right to hire and fire gives to the employer an inbuilt power and discipline over every person he employs.  Mr Justice  Higgins once remarked on the fact that although in theory the court had power to decrease wages as well as to increase them, every case he had ever handled had been to interfere by way of increase. I quote the judgment of the learned judge again, in the same case. He said: 
The reason seems to bethat the employer usually needs no court to enable him to reduce wages. He has simply to refuse to give employment at wages which he thinks to be loo high. 
No law can prevent an employer from reducing his staff or from closing down altogether, either permanently or temporarily. Indeed, even a lockout is lawful provided that the employer takes the precaution to first of all provoke a strike. One has only to recall the MountIsa lockout in 1964.  Mr Justice  Higgins also said: 
Freedom of contract under such circumstances is surely misnamed. It should rather be called despotism in contract and this court is empowered to fix a minimum wage as a check on despotic power. 
During the hearing of the waterside workers case on 9th December 1919 his Honour said he adhered to the view that he had expressed in the 1917 waterside workers case when he had stated that it was not a breach of an award for an employee to refuse to accept work if he did not like the conditions. The minimum rate was the lowest rate at which an employer could employ men but the whole area beyond the minimum wage was open to bargaining between employers and men. The right to bargain is meaningless without the right to strike. Even with this right preserved the worker is at a decided disadvantage. To strike is to starve. The power of the employer to withhold bread is a much more effective weapon than the power of the employee to refuse to labour. In the great maritime strike of 1890 it was starvation that drove the workers back to work. Starvation and now hire purchase as well stand on the side of the employer. The industrial tribunals are on the side of the employer. The law also is on his side and the court stands savagely behind the law. The minimum wage has become the maximum wage and the maximum penalty has become the minimum penalty for those who seek to get above the minimum wage. 
We live in a society in which the wage and salary earner has lost the most basic of all human rights, which is the right to decide whether and on what terms he will allow another to use his labour power. The late  Mr P.  i.  Clarey, M.P., who was at one time the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, was correct when he declared that the right to strike is the one thing which distinguishes the free man from the slave. The 'call-out' is the life blood of unionism because it is the only weapon with which organised labour can defend itself against the greedy employers and biased industrial commissioners. Rob the unions of this weapon and you rob them of their justification for existence. What could be more unjust than a law which fixes the price of the only thing which a worker has to sell - his labour power - but which places no restraint upon the price of the things he has to buy. The savage penalties imposed upon unions whenever they attempt to meet rising costs contrasts with the absolute freedom with which the employing class may fix the price of the things they have to sell. 
The law of demand and restricted supply is allowed to fix prices, but the same law is not permitted to fix wages except in times when supply is greater than demand. In the 1930s when there was a great labour surplus the Arbitration Court did not hesitate to order wage reductions in all industries. In 1930, which was 2 years before the pastoral award was due to expire, 
Chief Judge Dethridge ot the Arbitration Court reduced the pastoral award by 20%. In post-war years wages were arbitrarily fixed at levels far below what would be obtainable through collective bargaining in a free market. Arbitration has never given more than organised labour has been strong enough to take. Its chief claim to fame has been its capacity to prevent the trade unions from taking what the market would have given. 
There is now no need for an employer to conciliate. He can afford to stand flat footed against all demands for wage justice because he knows that arbitration will never order him to grant that which a free trade union movement could obtain by direct action. 
Tom Mann, who was one of the greats of the Labor movement and a contemporary of Ben Tillet, John Burns and Keir Hardie, said that arbitration had robbed the unions of their fighting efficiency. Tom Mann went on to say: 
The whole of the industrial negotiation was in the hands of the legal fraternity. It was clear that a continuation on such lines would result in the unions becoming virtually a part of the civil service. They would be dominated by the plutocratic forces of the state. 
It is inconceivable that early trade union leaders should have been so naive as to trade the right to strike for the kind of arbitration which has since emerged. Once the unions forfeited the power to cease work they placed themselves at the mercy of the arbitrator.  Mr Justice  Higgins said: 
The worker is in the same position, in principle, as Esau when he surrendered his birthright for a square meat, or as a traveller when he had to give up his money to a highwayman for the privilege of life. 
From 1930 until at least 1947 there were no penal clauses at all. Occasionally, but very occasionally, provision was made in awards imposing obligations on organisations. In those cases the penalty then provided under the legislation, namely a fine of £100, could be imposed for a breach. The offences would not be continuing offences incurring daily penalties, as is now the case and as is proposed in certain circumstances in the Bill which is now before the House. The first occasion on which penal powers reappeared was in 1947. This happened as a result of a 40-hour week case. When the 40-hour week was introduced the Arbitration Court ordered that reasonable overtime should be worked and that an organisation should not be concerned in any ban on overtime. This was said to be a temporary measure only. The breach of this provision could make an organisation liable to a penalty; but the penalty was £100. 1 believe we now ought lo consider the excuse sometimes put up by people that the laws of arbitration, and the penalties attached to those laws, should apply with equal force to employers and employees. Let us examine this statement for validity. Firstly, let us examine the impact upon BHP, or CSR, General Motors, the Ford Mo:or Co., ICI, Chrysler, AGM, Comalco or the Dunlop Rubber Co. 
 Let us consider the impact that a $1,000 penalty would have on these companies as compared with the same penalty on a shop steward or a union official. In case anyone thinks otherwise, union officials, with one or two exceptions, are very poorly paid. Compare the impact on the manager of a company whose company will pay the $1,000 fine without so much as blinking an eyelid with a similar penally upon a rank and file member working in industry. It is ridiculous lo suggest that a man working in industry for the wage obtainable under the awards in this country should be made to pay the same penalty as a rich employer such as those 1 mentioned or, for that matter, any employer who owns industry and employs labour. Such a proposition should not fall from the lips of anybody who has his sanity, lt is unreal to suggest that a rich employer is being treated fairly when he is being made lo pay the same penalty as an ordinary worker in industry. 
I point out again that whereas it is not the practice of the Commonwealth Industrial Court to impose heavy penalties upon employers, it invariably imposes the maximum penalty upon employee organisations. I can never forget the look of smug satisfaction on the face of Dunphy one day when I saw him impose a $1,000 penalty upon some trade unions which were merely striking for a better deal. The situation in the Industrial Court is that the Court never attempts in most cases to distinguish between the kind of circumstances that led to the dispute. The penalty was nearly always $1,000. It did not matter whether the strike arose out of justified provocation; it was $1,000. It did not matter whether the strike was without justification; it was still $1,000. 
Indeed, the judges of the Industrial Court, to their eternal discredit, have been known to refuse a union advocate the right to state a case for the mitigation of costs or fines. Such advocates were immediately sat down and told: 'You have committed contempt of the court. Do not come here and try to justify it.' Whether out of whim or humour, or for whatever reason it is that motivates judges when they are sitting on the bench, they usually apply the maximum penalty. 1 do not think the penalties they applied were proper. I know that the unions concerned which now owe the $38,000 will not pay the outstanding fines and I know that this Government is determined to cause a stoppage in industry in order to try to collect them. Here was an opportunity for the Government to wipe out the outstanding fines in the same way as it has wiped the contempt order currently applicable. But no. In order to continue the ferment of discontent which exists in industry today, the Government has deliberately set out to provoke an industrial stoppage in order to bring industry grinding to a halt The Government seems to get satisfaction from handling industrial disputes in this way. 
We are now passing through a period in Australia in which there is a surplus of jobs. It is a seller's market now and the unions are not prepared any longer to take it on the chin. No matter what members of the Government may think, sitting in the padded chairs of the Cabinet room, in isolation from the reality of the factories, despite their feelings of grandeur and their belief that they can do these things, I issue the warning tonight that if the Government is wise it will not attempt to force payment of the fines. If it does it will bring industry to a halt. 
The workers have every right to apply the same principle as the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd applied when quite arbitrarily it increased the price of steel by 3.7%. This, mark you, was done immediately following a year in which the company had made a record profit. That increase was arbitrarily imposed upon the Australian community. It is of no use for the Government continually to blame high wages for high prices. High prices always precede high wages. The demand for increased wages comes only as a result of increased prices already established as a consequence of the lack o control of prices of manufacturers' products. I am sorry that I do not have more time to develop the theme I have started. 1 repeat that in my opinion it is quite wrong that those of us on this side of the chamber who feel keenly about this subject should be compelled to restrict our remarks to a timetable which threatens to prevent even my moving the amendments I would like to move. I will not be calling for a division, on this clause but I have indicated clearly that I am utterly opposed to the clause, and so is the Opposition. The fact that a division was not called for on the clause is because we face the threat of the guillotine, which may prevent even the moving of amendments that we will later seek to move in dealing with the clauses. 

 Mr BRYANT (Wills) [5.3SJ - I wish to place on record my thoughts about the approach of the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  to the sanctions, representing as I do an industrial area in which people reside who feel the first winds that blow when industrial disputes arise. I believe that there is confusion in the minds of people who designed this legislation and the people who have been administering it for so long as to what are ils objectives. I do not believe that the objectives to be sought when industrial disputes occur include the process of law. We are not seeking a process of law but a system of arrangements between people who perform different functions in the community. Now law will solve the problem. You will not produce industrial peace by even the most beautifully drawn piece of parliamentary draftsmanship. It just will not succeed. The continuing flow of evidence in relation to arbitral proceed ings in this country and the consequent imposition of sanctions shows that they are an exercise in futility. Time after time the courts impose sanctions. Time after time the unions refuse to pay, and indeed, they are likely to continue to refuse. 
The Attorney-General has said thai the law has no sense if it is unenforceable. The fact is that in recent times it has been impossible to enforce the penal provisions of the law. lt is therefore an exercise in futility to continue with them. While we tolerate these provisions in our legislation Australia will not be a democracy. I believe that a fundamental civil right is involved, that the rights of some people are involved very deeply and the rights of others are involved indirectly. We impose upon one area of the community sanctions that we do not impose upon other areas. 1 believe that to be an exercise of executive power against people who are least able to resist it. What do we mean by it? The Attorney-General talks about sanctions as though the law embodied some implied duty to the community. He is implying that some parts of the community - in this case the workers in industry who happen to be in an industrial dispute - have a duly to the community. What sort of a duty do they have? They have a duty to work. Why have they a duty to work? Why have they a duty to go to work on terms to which they object? It is against the general attitude of the Australian community. 
The Government has just attempted to find some alternative to national service. We have decided to reject the national service system, but it is interesting that the denunciation of the idea of forcing people to work in a form of national service came from all quarters. Even people on the other side for whose democratic attitudes I have no respect whatsoever have forced the Government to change its view. The community as a whole - the leader writers in the newspapers and all sorts of peoples - rejects the suggestion that we have a right to force people in this community to work. I think we have enshrined it in the Constitution and in the social service amendments carried back in 1946 or 1947 - 'subject to the fact that there shall be no civil conscription', I think the words are. In other words, the Government is saying that one particular group of people have a duty to the community; they have a duty to work. We reject that view. We believe that each side has its equal rights and neither of them shall be transcended by the rights of the community in this instance. 
I am always reminded in these debates of the words that one can find in Mussolini's The Fundamental Laws of Fascism'. It would be instructive, I think, for those members opposite who have been prepared to stay here and discuss and consider this legislation that is being carried through in their name, to turn to The Fundamental Laws of Fascism' and see how those duties are described by Mussolini in that work. I believe the House as a whole should reject the suggestion of penal clauses. I do not believe that the individual has a duty to the state that transcends the state's responsibility to him. I believe the powers not only implied but actually applied in this legislation are of the very basis of the Fascist philosophy, and they ought to be rejected. 
I understand there are very few countries that have such pieces of legislation. This afternoon the House should reject the Bill. Honourable members opposite who have remained to do what they consider to be their duty should consider this deeply. Those who have departed from this place and are allowing this measure to be passed in their name ought to pause and look at the situation. There will be no solution to industrial situations by the use of penal clauses or sanctions. I do not know what the answer is and I suppose most people in the community - large employers and so on - do not know what the answers are: but one of them is the working conditions; another is security; another is the actual salary or wage involved. 1 was struck on a visit to Sweden a few years ago by the actual arrangements inside the factory I saw. I visited a light engineering concern. You could have eaten off the floor. Every man worked at his lathe and there was tons of space around him. The whole atmosphere was pleasant, hygienic and, I would say. the kind of place in which a person could work with some comfort. One only has to visit an industrial establishment in my own electoral district to see that conditions in such places are to our shame, as is the case in most of Australia. Many places, particularly those engaged in heavy industry, are unfit for people to work in. It is always instructive to me that the worst relationships are in the industries where the management has been tough and the working conditions are poor. In other instances there are not only happy relationships but also what one might call a close friendly relationship between the management and the workers. I could take some honourable members opposite to visit some similar establishments. Even at election times the way in which the management treats its workers is manifest. When I turn up at a large industrial establishment to a political meeting called by the shop stewards I find the men who do the work and make the profits for the employers have to sit outside on the ground and in the dust, I am affronted on their behalf and on behalf of the community. 
When one goes to a place, is invited inside by the management, and taken to the area where the people are having their lunch, one can see that there is a different kind of attitude, an attitude of respect. Until management accords the proper respect to people who work in factories - the same type of respect as is accorded to any other equals - there will not be industrial peace. When people who are treated in an undignified manner and are asked to work in conditions that are a denial of the standard of life we expect in this community strike against governments or owners or anyone else in these matters, I am on their side, as I believe a large section of the Australian community also to be. Until the Government - or what there is left of it at present - applies itself to the human questions involved in the industrial situation, there will not be industrial peace. I appeal to the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  to apply to the industrial area some of the civil rights principles that I often hear him enunciate, and see whether for once we cannot set up a standard for the rest of the world to look at in this area, instead of getting out the knout, the whip or the sanction. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 5 agreed to. 
Clauses 6 and 7  -  by leave - taken together. 

 Mr CLYDE CAMERON (Hindmarsh) [5.471  -  Although we will oppose these clauses, because of the time factor - and for that reason only - we will not call for a division on them. However, we make it clear that we oppose the proposal contained in clause 7 to give the Commission power to write into an award a provision that each day of a dispute shall be treated as the occasion of a separate offence. We even oppose a presidential member's being given the right to certify that a breach of an award has occurred. We believe that the thing is obnoxious, and cannot and ought not be accepted in a free society. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clauses 8 and 9  -  by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clauses 10to 12  -  by leave - taken together. 
We of the Opposition are completely and utterly opposed to clause 18 of the Bill which proposes to write into section 119 of the Act the savage penalties which are set out in proposed sub-section 1 (d.).I just want to say a few words on this and then we will take the final vote. It is unfortunate that in relation to these penal provisions at least one of the judges has chosen to have the onus of proof shifted to the person charged. I take the case in which  Mr Justice  Dunphy dealt with a strike by the Victorian railway workers. The only offence alleged to have been committed by 1 union was that 12 of its members were absent from work on the day in question.  Mr Justice  Dunphy said: 
In such a case the onus shifts and in the absence of evidence to the contrary it must be presumed that the minor organisation had become involved with the other organisations. 
So there we have the extraordinary ruling from a judge which shifts the onus from the person laying the charge to the person charged. I regret that I have to leave out so much of what I would otherwise have said, but 1 must say this much about the penal powers: As I have said, the penal powers were removed in 1 930 and have been reintroduced largely by judge-made law. There has been no deliberate enactment by Parliament of a properly considered system and, indeed, parliamentary action has consisted of patching up gaps which have appeared or giving apparent relaxations which, in reality, meant nothing. That is what we are doing now. It is obviously time that the powers were looked at independently of the courts' decisions and of the system which has been built up by the courts. When that is done, the matter is examined in its historical perspective, it will be abundantly clear that the steady growth in penal provisions and in their use has indeed been like the effect of a drug upon a drug taker - the more penal powers there have been, the more there has come to be a reliance on them, although the years from 1930 to 1947 show that the arbitration system can work and, indeed, work better without penal provisions. That is all 1 have time to say. I make it clear that we oppose the Bill and will vote against it at the third reading stage. 
Remainder of Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
asked the Minister for Immigration upon notice: 
What amount has been paid in: 
fares; and 
expenses and fees to each of the present members of the Immigration Advisory Council in each year since 1st January 1964? 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
What was the total cost in fares, fees and expenses paid to member, officer and staff of the Immigration Advisory Council in each year since its establishment? 
asked the Prime 
Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Government ever sought either directly or indirectly to influence the Public Service Board in the manner in which it determines applications for wage and salary increases. 
asked the Prime 
Minister, upon notice: 
Has the death of the late  Mr Justice  Wright made it necessary for the Association of Professional Engineers of Australia to abandon its High Court action against the Commonwealth Arbitration Commission's decision to disregard the view of some of its own members in favour of the view taken by the Public Service Board on salaries for professional engineers. 
In the light of developments since the Commission delivered its Award, will he ask the Board to reconsider the question of professional engineers with a view to removing the apparent anomalies that now exist in the Public Service salaries scale. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the printing of Labour Report for 1967 was not completed until May 1970. 
Is it also a fact that the Government Printer did not receive this Report from the Common? wealth Bureau of Census and Statistics until after December 1969. 
In view of the importance of up-to-date industrial statistics to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, and those who appear before the Commission, will he take urgent steps to have the Labour Report for 1968, 1969 and 1970 published before the National Wage Case commences next year. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What was the amount paid for (a) fares and (b) freight by each Commonwealth department and instrumentality to (i) Trans-Australia Airlines and (ii) Ansett Tarnsport Industries or its auxiliaries in each year since 1950. 
asked the Minister  for the Interior, upon notice: 
What sum has been spent in each Commonwealth Department in each of the past 10 years on survey work carried out by private practising surveyors. 
Have any private surveyors been employed at daily rates or scale of fees in any of those years. 
Is it anticipated that there will be an increase in the amount spent by the Commonwealth on survey work carried out by private surveyors in the current year; if so, what is the amount. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Did the Commonwealth support or vote for any of the following International Labour Organisation Conventions, namely, Nos. 3, 4, 41, 89 and 103. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Who made the application which resulted in the Public Service Arbitrator granting the various rates of salary outlined in his answer to question No. 1091 (Hansard, 2 June 1970). 
Were the rates sought in the application the rates which, in fact, were approved by the Public Service Arbitrator. 
Did the Railways Commissioner or the Public Service Board justify the rates thus determined in accordance with comparable rates outside the Commonwealth Public Service. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Do female reference librarians employed in the National Library receive less pay than their male counterparts. 
If so, will be take steps to ensure that these females are granted equal pay immediately. 
If be is prepared to have this increase implemented, will he correspond with the  Speaker  and  President  and suggest that similar adjustments might be made to the pay of the female reference librarians in the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library. 
asked the Prime 
Minister, upon notice: 
Why are female data processing operators employed bythe Public Service Board not eligible for equal pay within the terms of the decision of 19 June 1969 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in the Equal Pay Case. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
ls there a shortage of qualified accountants in some Commonwealth departments. 
If so, why has the Public Service Board failed to offer more cadetships and to make time off for study freely available. 
Has the Board sought to encourage the recruitment of accountancy staff by the payment of a minimum level of remuneration to diplomates from technical colleges in the same way as that paid to university graduates. 
asked the Treasurer, upon  notice: 
Is it a fact that the Commissioner for Commonwealth Employees' Compensation refuses to grant legal costs in respect of appeals from workmen's compensation claims except on the basis of an agreement which exists between most solicitors and insurance companies that the assessment of cost shall be on the basis of one-half of the Supreme Court scale. 
Can he say whether some legalfirms specialising in workmen's compensation have refused to act for this scale of charges. 
Can he state the number of occasions on which costs in respect of employees' compensation claims have been taxed by the Registrar of a Supreme Court. 
Is it a fact that injured employees are finding difficulty in securing legal firms to act on their behalf; if so, will he consider altering the relevant rules so as to bring costs in respect of Commonwealth employees' compensation proceedings in line withcosts awarded in other proceedings. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
In what Commonwealth instrumentalities docs the head of the instrumentality enjoy the power to fix salaries without reference to the Public Service Board. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Has he any information as to who are the principal shareholders of New Guinea Goldfields Limited. 
asked the Minister  for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What was the salary paid to (a) Presidential Members of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission (b) Conciliation Commissioners and (c) the Public Service Arbitrator at the time of the 1962 Professional Engineers Case. 
What is the current salary and what are the tax free allowances, if any, received by (a) Presidential Members of the Commission (b) Conciliation Commissioners and (c) the Public Service Arbitrator. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Did the High Court in 1957. in the case of R v. Dunlop(Aust.) Ltd. ex parte Federated Miscellaneous Workers' Union of Australia (97 C.L.R at page 87) express the view that the system of registration governing the Constitution. and the description, on theregister of the industry in respect of which theorganisation stands registered may be and indeed seemstobe fault 
If sowhatsteps have been taken to amend the law in such a way as to eliminate the faulty effects of the existing law inrelation to the registration of rules of membership eligibility vis-a-vis union certificates of registration. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that International Labour Organisation Convention No. 1 sets a 48-hour limit to the total number of hours that an employee may be required to work in any one week. 
Does the Commonwealth Arbitration Commission follow theL.L.O. Convention when dealing with applications to limit the amount of overtime which an employee may be required to work in excess of his standard hours. 
If not, has an employee, or a trade union ever been penalised for refusing to work overtime which would result in an employee's working week exceeding the limit set by the l.L.O. in 1919. 
Which of the member States have ratified Convention No.1. 
Does the Commonwealth support this Convention. 
asked  the  Minister for 
Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that International Labour Organisation Convention No. 89 restricts, with certain exceptions, the employment of women on night work. 
Has the Commonwealth legislated to implement this Convention within the Territories of the Commonwealth. 
Has the Commonwealth implemented the Convention in respect of its own employees. 
Which of the member States have ratified Convention No. 89. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Have all officers and employees of the Commonwealth Public Service received wage or salary increases resulting from the recent National Wage Case. 
If not, what is the reason for the delay. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission holds periodical conferences with Conciliation Commissioners. 
If so, are discussions at these conferences held on such matters as policy relating to wages and conditions of employment. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Public Service Arbitrator, his Deputy and each of the Conciliation Commissioners do not keep a record of their respective sitting hours each year. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What was the number of industrial disputes due to an employer's alleged victimisation of  a  union shop steward in each year since 1950. 
Is it a fact that under section 5 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act the onus of proof must be carried by the person allegedly victimised and that the employer is not required to show the reasons for the dismissal of an employee. 
Can an employee be required to meet the costs of Commonwealth Industrial Court proceedings pursuant to section 5 of the Act. 
On how many occasions since 1950 has section 5 of the Act been used by a dismissed employee. 
On how many occasions since 1950 has an application by an employee been (a) successful and (b) unsuccessful. 
On how many occasions has a Court ordered costs against an employee iti alleged victimisation proceedings since 1950. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Which members of the' judiciary, what staff of the Australian National University and what holders of statutory offices under the Commonwealth receive sabbatical leave. 
What are the terms of this leave. 
What is the reason for the wide difference between the period of long service leave granted to officers of the Commonwealth Public Service and the period allowed for sabbatical leave. 
asked the Minister  for External Territories, upon notice: 
Will he elaborate upon his reply to the second paragraph of my question No. 819 (Hansard, 5th May 1970, page 1666) by stating whether, in any of the 59 cases in respect of which the Court refused compensation on the ground that the worker's death was not the result of his employment, the death of the deceased worker occurred at his place of employment during working hours, or was caused, or was materially contributed to, by an injury or disease associated with his work. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that all mines in the Burragorang Valley are owned by an American Company. 
Is it a fact that the coal production per man shift amounts to 13.81 tons. 
If so, is he able to say what is the labour cost per ton and what is the selling price. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it a fact' that there are no uniform statistics available recording the incidence and cause of industrial accidents and occupational diseases in each Commonwealth department and instrumentality. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Has the Administration of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea failed to exercise its power to prescribe fees to be charged or paid in respect of the services of a Native Employment Agent; if so, why. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that an International Labour Organisation Convention provides that all wages due to indigenous plantation workers shall be paid in full at regular fortnightly intervals. 
If so, why does the Native Employment Ordinance of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea allow employers to pay only once a month and, in addition, permit employers to hold back a portion of the wages due in the form of deferred wages (Hansard, 5th May, 1970, page 1632). 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
In view of his reply to Question No. 667 (Hansard, 5th May 1970, page 1632) that agreement workers  m  the Territory of Papua and New Guinea receive only 6 days paid recreation leave per year and that this leave is not available to certain workers until the end of 2 years service, will be give the reason for the existing discrepancy between paid annual leave available to agreement workers and that which is granted to European workers. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
ls it a fact that certain European workers employed in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea are entitled to receive reimbursement of fares from New Guinea to Australia when taking their annual leave entitlements. 
If so, in view of his answer to question No. 667 (Hansard, 5th May 1970, page 1632) indicating that no such fare reimbursement is payable to an indigenous agreement worker in Papua and New Guinea, will he take steps to remove the present discrimination between indigenous and expatriate workers in the Territory. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will he consider the establishment of an independent public service college, open to all officers of the Commonwealth Public Service, for the purpose of providing a wide range of management training courses, the object of the training being to ensure that, through careful selection for promotion, the senior positions in the Service are ultimately filled by men who are most highly qualified in an administrative and managerial capacity. 
asked the Prime 
Minister, upon notice: 
How many (a) First Division and (b) Second Division appointments were made in the Commonwealth Public Service in each year since 1950. 
How many of the First Division appointments were made from (a) the Second Division, (b) the Third Division and (c) outside the Commonwealth Public Service. 
How many of the Second Division appointments were made from (a) the Third Division, (b) the Fourth Division and (c) outside the Commonwealth Public Service. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
How many widows of New Guinea workers have not been paid the full amount of employees' compensation prescribed for the fully dependent widow of an employee whose death was caused by bis employment. 
How many of these widows received (a) part compensation and (b) no compensation. 
How many of those who received (a) pan compensation and (b) no compensation agreed to the settlement, and in how many of each such cases was the matter determined by a District Court. 
asked the Attorney- 
General, upon notice: 
How many of the orders and decisions of the Commonwealth Industrial Court have yet to be published in printed pamphlet form, and when were these orders or decisions made. 
Yes, we will spend less time in aeroplanes, as my colleague points out. Even though this proposal may require some of us to remain in Canberra for 1 weekend in every 3 weeks - I refer to those honourable members who live in distant States and isolated localities, a fact which would make a return to their homes on Friday night impossible - we still have our own private secretaries to hold the fort while we are away, although they could not do it as efficiently as wc would do it ourselves. This could perhaps produce a situation which the electorate would be entitled to complain bitterly about. However, if a matter of great urgency arose during our absence, regardless of whether it was on a Monday. Tuesday. Wednesday. Thursday or Friday, we would be fortunate in that we would have the facilities available to us to handle it. Our secretaries would be able to contact us and tell us of this matter of great urgency and wc would be able to attend to it either by dictating a letter by telephone or, on the other hand, taking down the particulars of the matter to be dealt with and dealing with it promptly in Canberra. 
If the new programme results in some honourable members remaining in Canberra on 1 weekend in each 3-week period instead of travelling back to their electorates - as mo«t of us now have to do - it will force those honourable members to make a choice on that 1 weekend in every 3 weeks between wasting the Saturday or Sunday in idleness or resting - if the hours are to be as late as they have been in the past some honourable members might need the rest - or of using the 2 free days in each 3-week period in catching  up  with one'« reading or curving  out  research One of the main troubles with our joh is that we spend loo much time travelling hackwards and forwards between our electorates and the Parliament. Too much of our time is a'so wasted at weekends attending to things which do not improve our capacity to represent our electorates in the Parliament or improve us as parliamentarians 
I agree with the honourable gentleman. This is something to which I will refer in a moment. I could not agree more. I agree with many of the things which the honourable gentleman said a moment or two ago. The trouble is that we cannot find enough time to do the reading and research which we ought to be doing. At least under this proposal we will get 1 free weekend in which to do them if we find that we cannot return to our homes because of the difficulties involved. The trouble is that too many of us are forced to throw away material which is posted to us for our reading. I would suggest that very few, if any, of us could honestly say that we have read every piece of material which has been sent to us through the post. Perhaps we should not be expected to read all of it. but T venture to say that in the process of throwing material in the waste paper basket because we do not have 'he time to read all of it we have on many occasions thrown away material which it would have been to our own advantage and the advantage of the electorate to have read. We have In this place an excellent library and an excellent library research system. T would suggest that not one of us is so knowledgeable on any subject as to be unable to learn more from the material which is available to us in Canberra. When we are in our electorates on Saturdays or Sundays we are rarely free from the constant interruptions of telephone call"!, interviews and social engagements which do not improve our capacity to represent our nation in the national Parliament. 
Unfortunately my good friend, the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope),  is not present in the chamber. No doubt he is listening on the blower up top, which is one of the facilities we have in this place. The honourable member said that each of us in our vote on this proposal will decide the question according to our own individual interests - the innuendo being that we will not care two hoots about our colleagues. Of course, this is not what the honourable member meant to say. Nobody is more unselfish than the honourable member for Sydney. I have never known a more dedicated member of this Parliament than the honourable member for Sydney. It was not his intention to suggest that each of us would be so selfish as to determine our vote by how the proposal would affect us as individuals, and not to care two hoots about the position of our colleagues who live in distant States or isolated localities. This is not what the honourable meant. I did not quite understand exactly what he did mean, but I know that he did not mean that. I know that the honourable member for Sydney is one honourable member who has always had a very sympathetic and kindly understanding of the difficult position in which his colleagues who live in distant States or isolated areas, such as the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  and the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby),  are placed. Looking around the chamber I also notice the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard).  All of the honourable gentlemen who come from Western Australia are in this category. Looking further around the chamber I can see some honourable members from Queensland, such as the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton),  who come within this category. All of these honourable members are entitled to expect their colleagues to have some regard for their position. I have every regard far their position. I also know that nobody is more kindly and more considerate of another person's position than the honourable member for Sydney. 
I want to say that I agree with most of what the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  had to say. He was completely right when he said that we have to stop sitting late hours. It is crazy to go on like we have been doing, sitting in this chamber until after midnight each night. We cannot do our job next day if we are required to sit as late as that. But the honourable member for Bradfield and I part company at that point, because he does not recognise in this proposition, as I do, an opportunity to escape sitting the crazy late hours that we have had forced upon us under the old system. 1 see in this proposition an opportunity to get rid of the necessity to sit such hours. I do not think that we should have such short sessions. The honourable member for Bradfield and I are again in perfect accord on this aspect. I do not like to see the Budget session begin as late as it did this year. I do not like to see the Parliament called together for only 1 day. which  is what happened after the last general election. 1 do not like to see the Parliament get up in November while a lot of business has still to be done. I do not like to see important matters forced through in the dying hours of the last day of a session without debate in order to finish a week earlier. I know, as does the honourable member for Bradfield, that the Government loves to get the Parliament out of the way so that Ministers can make policy statements without having to face the Parliament the next week. 
The cure does not lie in retaining the kind of hours which we have had in the last 20 years. I hope the kind of hours and the kind of sitting days we have had in the last 20 years will be replaced now by this proposition. During the whole of the past 20 years we have complained about the hours of sitting. This has not forced the Government to have longer sessions, it has not stopped the Government from sitting late- into the night, and it has not stopped the Government from closing down the Parliament, getting away from it all and treating Parliament as a rubber stamp. Perhaps the new proposal will achieve this. If it does not do so it will not have achieved any less than the old proposals and there is a good chance that it will achieve more. 1 remind the Parliament that everyone of us knows that the Government parties and Opposition Party have specialist committees operating. On our side we have 14 specialist committees. However, a great problem is to find enough spare time when the House is not in session to enable the committees to get down to the subject that we ought to be dealing with and to grapple with the programme or problems that we ought to be facing. 
Last session while the House was sitting I was never able to give proper attention to the industrial committee's consideration of the Workers Compensation Bill. The only time when we were really able to grapple with it was on 1 Saturday and 1 Sunday when most members of the industrial committee and expert advisers from interstate travelled to Canberra and we were able to spend the whole weekend working on the problem. The industrial committee got through more work in that 1 weekend than we had done for the whole of the year. I venture to suggest that if all committees recognised the great value of staying here for 1 weekend every month or 6 weeks - please yourself how often - occasionally to grapple with the problems that they should be considering they would find that their committees would do more work than they now do while munching a sandwich during meal breaks and hoping to give intelligent consideration to the matters which they have before them. 
1 think they will sit on Saturdays and Sundays, lt will happen only once in 3 weeks, i believe that our parties would be a lot better for this and that all of us would serve our respective parties better if we could set aside a weekend for this sort of work. 1 strongly support this proposition. 1 do so not only because it suits me personally. From the point of view of transport 1 can get to Adelaide and back almost as quickly as one can travel to Sydney and back, and perhaps more quickly than one can travel to Newcastle. 1 am not supporting the proposal for any particular personal reason associated with travelling, but I do have - 1 mean this and 1 know 1 speak for all honourable members on this side of the chamber - some consideration for our less fortunate colleagues who are separated from this place by greater distances. Although the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  lives in South Australia, it will take him longer to get to his home from this place than it would take the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  because of the unusual and awkward travelling schedules in South Australia. For those reasons I have much pleasure in supporting the proposition which has been put forward. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that there are approximately 1,000 advertised vacancies in Australia for professional engineers. 
Is it also a fact that there is a large amount of engineering work not being carried out in Australia as a direct consequence of the acute shortage of professional engineers and that Australia is spending something like $50m per year for overseas designs which could be carried out by engineers in Australia. 
If the position is as stated, will he take immediate steps to upgrade the salaries now payable to professional engineers with the object of encouraging professional engineers to remain in Australia and encouraging students to undertake engineering courses. 
MrSnedden - The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is no official register of all advertised vacancies for professional engineers in Australia. However, the Professional Employment Offices of the Department of Labour and National Service record those vacancies for professional engineers notified by employers. These vacancies numbered 284 as at the end of May 1970. 
No official statistics are available on the amount spent in Australia on overseas designs each year. However, as other factors are involved, such expenditure does not necessarily reflect a shortage of professional engineers in this country. 
I have no authority to determine rates of pay for professional engineers. This is a matter  for  negotiation between the associations and employers concerned and, failing that, for arbitration by the appropriate arbitral authorities. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Waterside Workers Federation has told the Federal Advisory Committee on Waterfront Accident Prevention that more should be done to allay the fears of workers handling asbestos. 
Is it a fact that workers exposed to asbestos in their job face the dual threat of the lung scarring pneumoconiosis, of their calling, asbestosis, and the dangers of lung cancer associated with the inhalations of asbestos fibres. 
Has his attention been drawn to a recent study in the United States which reveals that 50% of all workers handling asbestos insulation showed X-ray evidence of asbestosis, and that one in every ten deaths was caused bymesotheliona, a cancer of the lung pleura, so rare that it strikes only one in 10,000 in the general population. 
If the position is as stated, will he take appropriate steps to ensure that all employers under Commonwealth jurisdiction provide respirators that will properly filter out the invisible as well as visible asbestos fibres floating in the atmosphere in ail places of work where men are required to handle asbestos. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it a fact, as reported in the Australian of 23rd May. 1970, that he attributes industrial unrest in the stevedoring industry to Communist factions in the Federation who, in an endeavour to improve their position, are engaged in a competition in militancy. 
Has he information that the Federal Secretary of the Waterside Workers Federation,  Mr C.  H. Fitzgibbon, is a non-Communist and has his attention been drawn to  Mr Fitzgibbon's  description of his statement as utterly incorrect. 
Has his attention also been drawn to the comment on his statement by the non-Communist  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr R.  Hawke, in which it was declared that the Minister was still analysing issues in a reactiona ry looking-under-the-bed-for-Communists fashion. 
Will he state in what way alleged Communists improve their position by becoming engaged in militancy. 
asked the Attorney- 
General, upon notice: 
Has the Commonwealth Industrial Court and the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission been supplied with suitable Court room accommodation for full bench sittings in Adelaide independent of that supplied by courtesy of the South Australian Industrial Court. 
If so, when was the accommodation made available. 
When did the Chief Judge of the Commonwealth Industrial Court, or the  President  of the Commission, first direct the Government's attention to the inadequacy of accommodation for this purpose in Adelaide. 
asked the Attorney- 
General, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Commonwealth Arbitration Reports are nearly two years behind in publication. 
Is it possible to publish the material in part volume form as it becomes available, instead of waiting until the end of each year before publication. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
What is the delay between the making of decisions and orders by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and their publication in printed pamphlet form. 
How many of these decisions or orders have yet to be printed in pamphlet form, and when were such decisions or orders made. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
On what date did the  President  of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission first express his concern over the delay in printing the Commission's decisions in pamphlet form and in producing Commonwealth Arbitration Reports within a reasonable time. 
On what date did his Department first make its recommendation to the Public Service Board for the provision of the additional Registry staff required to correct the difficulties referred to by the  President. 
Has the Board fully met the staffing requirements needed for overtaking the backlog and of keeping up-to-date the printing of Commonwealth Arbitration Reports and the decisions of the Commission in pamphlet form. 
If so. on what date did the Board comply with his Department's recommendation. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
What is the reason for a lag of more than 12 months in the publication of Commonwealth Arbitration Reports. 
If the fault lies with the Government Printer, will he bring to the notice of the Government the need for an extension of the Government Printing Office in order to expedite the printing of Government publications. 
asked the Attorney- 
General, upon notice: 
On how many occasions has the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission referred in his Annual Report to the delay that occurs in the printing of pamphlets, awards and other decisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
Has the Government taken heed of the President's complaint; if not, why not. 
asked  the Minister  for  Labour  and  National Service, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the decision of a meeting of members of the Federated Clerks' Union of Australia held in Sydney on 28th April 1970 requesting continuity of employment of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority's staff at prevailing rates of pay and conditions of employment after 1st July 1970. 
Is it a fact that the Authority intends to retrench some of those at present employed by it. 
Will he give an assurance that, in the event of any change in the structure of the industry involving any reduction in the powers and functions of the Authority, or its abolition, present employees will be given at least twelve months' notice of such change in order to enable them to negotiate their position with the Commonwealth. 
Was a similar arrangement made in respect of the redundancy of waterside workers during the introduction of permanent employment in their industry. 
asked the Attorney- 
General, upon notice: 
Is it the practice of the Commonwealth Industrial Registrar and/or his deputies to 
interview informants and complainants who wish to bring proceedings into the Commonwealth Industrial Court with a view to discovering the merits of their cases and the evidence they have available to support such cases, 
consult with a judge of the Commonwealth Industrial Court on the material thus provided to him before determining whether to act on the information or complaint, 
require all informants proceeding under Regulation 76(2) to conduct a form of pretrial of the worth of the proceeding, and 
insist that in addition to a formal information, the informant must swear an affidavit relating to the information. 
Has the Registrar and/or his deputies on any occasion rejected an affidavit as being inadequate, andin such cases declined to issue a summons on an otherwise sound information. 
If so. which section of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act or which Regulation gives the Registrar or his deputies the right to engage in any of the foregoing practices. 
Do the foregoing practices contravene ordinary procedures in summary jurisdiction. 
If these practices do exist, do they impede the access of litigants to the Commonwealth Industrial Court. 
If so, does the practice force upon informants the need to enlist expensive legal assistance for the trying, settling, engrossing and defending of affidavits in support of information, thus imposing an unfair and . unnecessary burden of costs upon convicted defendants. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that for 4 months of the year ending 13th August 1969 and for some months of the previous year the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission had to struggle on with only 3 Deputy Presidents on active duty instead of 5. 
Didthe continued hearing of the Professional Engineers cases before 2 full benches of the Commission and the fall in the number of active Deputy Presidents cause delays in some full bench hearings. 
If so, what was the reason for the Government's delay in making the new appointments needed to cope with the backlog of hearings that had built up at that time. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is there no general power in the Commonwealth Industrial Court to (a) restrain conduct that conflicts with the clear policy of the law as expressed in the case of Short v. Wellings against the partisan use of union funds and resources as a means of enabling office-holders to hold office against challenge from the rank and file or (b) restrain conduct that conflicts with section . 171 (I.) of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act as revealed in the case of Dunford v. Dougherty. 
If so, is this lack of injunctive power a defect in the Act. 
If a defect is apparent is there any merit in amending the Act to provide authority to the Court to restrain the wrongful use of union funds and resources of registered organisations and to restrain the kind of conduct prohibited by section 171 (3.) of the Act. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Has he any indications as (a whether the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission is satisfied with the number of conciliators now operating under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
 I am not happy with the recommendation as it now stands. I do not object to the proposal to reduce the number of members forming a quorum during the sitting if attention is drawn to the fact that a quorum is not present. I agree with that because living in this electronic age, we now have ways and means of listening to the debate in our rooms while it is in progress. It is now possible to listen to a debate - not in a very intense way but in a casual kind of way - while one is working. Of course, one would listen intensely when a  speaker  comes on who is making a point which appears to be of great validity. I do the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  the honour of mentioning that he is among those whose speeches always arrest my attention while I am working in my room and cause me to put down my work momentarily to hear what he has to say. Even the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  who is at the table, is a person to whom I always listen except when he talks about Communism although that is humorous enough sometimes to listen to. But I do my listening in my room while I am doing other work, such as reading, preparing speeches and the other things which one can only do properly in one's room away from the special atmosphere which exists in this place. 
However, I do agree with the honourable member for Bradfield in his general criticism of the reduction in the size of a quorum insofar as the reduction relates to the number of honourable members required for the election of an Acting  Speaker,  for the meeting of the House and for a division. I am not concerned very much about the first 2 points because I could not possibly imagine, although it would be a terrible thing if it did happen, a  Speaker  being elected in circumstances in which there was not at least a quorum present. So 1 pass over that as being of no material significance because, although in theory it could happen, in practice it would never happen as this always occurs at the commencement of a new parliament. One perhaps can dismiss that defect in the proposal. lt would be almost inconceivable that the Parliament would meet for the first time with less than a quorum. 1 could not possibly imagine Parliament meeting without all members or at least the present quorum being present. 
At the end of the last sessional period divisions were being taken in circumstances in . which had members on my side refrained from voting the House would have been left without a quorum, so short and so narrow were the numbers. I think that no law should be put on the statute book unless at least the present number required for a quorum are present and vote. To allow laws, which are binding on the citizens of this country, to be passed when less than the present quorum was present would be quite extraordinary and something to which we ought not readily agree. 1 must agree in passing - I cannot do more than make a passing reference to it because the honourable member for Bradfield was a bit wide of the Standing Orders when he referred to this matter - that it would be far better for us to cure the cause of the lack of interest in parliamentary proceedings by members. I say no more than that I agree with the reason why there is a lack of interest here. The reason why we cannot get members to sit and listen to other parliamentarians speaking is that Parliament has become a mere rubber stamp of the Executive. After one has been here as long as the honourable member for Bradfield and I have been here, one soon feels that it is just a waste of time and that one is only beating the air when one rises to speak. It would be far better and more effective if one were to look to the advisers of the Government over in the advisers desks and find out their names. One could arrange for them to come over and have dinner at one's place or, even better, for one to have dinner at their place. 
Yes, 1 know, but I want to finish the sentence. We should put our views to the advisers of the Government. In that way we would probably be far better with our case. 1 will have to vote against the proposal as it now stands. I may, if 1 am able in the time at my disposal, devise and propose an amendment to permit the recommendation being adopted in its present form insofar as it relates to the number required while the House is sitting. 
I agree with that part of the report which stales that far too often quorums have been called for their nuisance value only. It is the old story of abuse of power leading to loss of power. 1 see very good grounds for calling quorums sometimes. I very often think that it is a pity that persons such as myself and others who spend a great deal of time preparing speeches should have to talk to an empty House, lt is proper for us to call a quorum so that at least a reasonable number of people can have the benefit of our research and of our endeavours to present something worthwhile to Parliament. To dispense with the present quorum in respect of the other 3 occasions would be, T, think, a retrograde step and one that T could not support. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
I ask the Minister for Shipping and Transport whether he was correctly reported by the Press as having told the New South Wales Country Party conference at Griffith on 26th June this year that the Government was trying to preserve the status of the many responsible members of the trade unions? If so, how does he define the term responsible members of the trade unions'? Does he know whether any member of the Government has conveyed the views attributed to him to any of the judges of the Commonwealth Industrial Court? Will he explain any other steps that have been taken by the Government to preserve the status of those whom he was pleased to describe as responsible members of the trade unions? 
asked the Minister  for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How man breaches of Federal awards were discovered by (a) Commonwealth arbitration inspectors and (b) State arbitration inspectors in each yearsince 1960. 
How many  of  these breaches were rectified. 
How many prosecutions were launched in respect of these breaches. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
As the average weekly hours including overtime worked by full-time employees amounts to only 43.3 hours, and the International Labour Organisation has voted in favour of a maximum working week of 48 hours, will the Commonwealth act to present a case to the Commonwealth Arbitration 
Commission to prohibit compulsory overtime which will oblige an employee to work more than 48 hours per week. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the apparently delicate staff situation in the Bureau of Mineral Resources; if so, has he formulated views on a claim relating to scientists' salaries which has been before the Public Service Board since 28th May 1969. 
Has he concerned himself with the answer to be filed by the Board under the Public Service Arbitration Act in relation to the scientists' claim. 
Is it a fact that an answer to the claim was not, in fact, lodged within the prescribed period of 14 days after the claim was lodged on 28th May 1969, and that the answer lias not, in fact, yet been lodged with the Public Service Arbitrator. 
If so, will he request the Board to take immediate action in this matter. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What was the reason for not publishing the birthdates drawn in the previous national service ballots. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How many employees in Australia are covered by Federal awards or agreements. 
What percentage does this figure represent of all employees. 
What is the number of Commonwealth arbitration inspectors employed in each State. 
Can he say what is the number of arbitration inspectors employed by each of the respective State governments. 
Is it a fact that in some States the Commonwealth has authorised State inspectors to carry out inspections in relation to Commonwealth awards. 
If so, how many of these inspectors are involved and in which States are they authorised to act on behalf of the Commonwealth. 
 I, too, support the amendment. I agree entirely with the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme)  on this. Some members of the Opposition are opposed to the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  but I appeal to honourable members on this side of the chamber as well as to honourable members on the other side not to make an irrevocable decision now which will stay on the statute book and will be binding on all future governments in all circumstances. I have just asked a question of the assistant  Clerk.  Perhaps it was not fair to ask him to answer it off the cuff. As far as he ls able to answer the question off the cuff, he knows of no requirement in the Standing Orders that stipulates that a special or urgent sitting of the Parliament will require a given amount of notice to honourable members. Assuming that his impromptu reply is correct, one can easily visualise a very serious situation arising  -  I hope it will never arise in our time. We are interfering with an institution that has stood the test of time for about 600 years and which, I hope, will stand the test of time while man lives in this country. 
If we make the fatal decision today which will allow the Parliament to function with no more than 25 people present out of 125, of which 13 would be a majority, those 13 people could be responsible for putting onto the statute book laws binding on the 13 million people who have sent us here. Those laws could range from penal provisions in the Arbitration Act to amendments to the Crimes Act, imposts upon property or intrusions into the civil liberties of our people. It is a very serious thing. I realise that governments like to have small quorums. I do not condemn them for that, but we are not at this moment thinking in terms of governments and oppositions. This is a free, non-party vote to be taken by members of the Parliament who not only want to sec the Parliament work efficiently but also want the Parliament to be a permanent safeguard for the people of Australia against tyranny, despotism and the kind of abuse of power which governments sometimes take upon themselves. 
For these reasons I believe that we ought to insist upon having no fewer than one-third of the members present. That is small enough. It is only 42 out of 125 who are required to be present. I cannot really visualise the situation in which this would impose a hardship upon a government, whether it is a Liberal government or a Labor government. Surely it will never be a hardship upon any government not to be able to pass legislation unless there is a mere 42 out of 125 present. Therefore, I would earnestly plead to members on both sides of the Parliament to realise that this is a very serious step we are taking; it is a step that perhaps will be with us for all time. We are doing something now to Parliament. Our decision will affect not only the Parliament of today but the Parliament as it will be in 100 years time. 
asked the Minister  for Defence, upon notice: 
Onhow many occasions has a member of the Australian armed forces in Vietnam while driving a motor vehicle accidentally killed (a) a civilian man, woman or child and (b) a water buffalo. 
In any cases of civilian deaths did dependants or relatives of the person killed receive compensation; if so, what was the amount. 
Was compensation paid to the owner of any water buffalo killed; if so, what was the amount of compensation. 
 I wanted to say a lot about the Parliament but time will not permit me to expound as fully as f should have liked on all the subjects that concern me. I begin by supporting the views of my colleague, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  who said that it is high time that the Parliament made a firm decision on where the new parliament house will be sited and took early steps to commence its building. It seems quite unsatisfactory to me that the Senate should decide in favour of Capital Hill, that the House of Representatives should be divided almost 50-50 on the location and that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  should walk into this chamber, without a vote being permitted in the Senate, and announce to the world at large that the new parliament house will not be on Capital Hill, which site was so overwhelmingly supported by the Senate, but on Camp Hill. There is only one place for the new parliament house and that is Capital Hill. We ought to say so now. We should not allow one person who is here today and gone tomorrow - that applies to us all - to determine the site for what will be the most magnificent building in this city - the building, more than any other building, which will symbolise our parliamentary democracy and our system of parliamentary government. I hope that the Government will listen to the remarks of the many speakers who have had something to say about this and will allow the Parliament to decide, in the name of those who are to follow us, where the parliament house will be built and will put an end to this business of one man walking into the chamber and saying: 'I wish to announce that the new parliament house will be sited on Camp Hill'. 
T am sick and tired of the attitude of Ministers and Prime Ministers who treat the Parliament and all of its members as mere rubber stamps of the executive government and of, in this case, the Prime Minister assuming that the Parliament as well as the Executive is a rubber stamp of his own prejudices. I am afraid that the Prime Minister, like a lot of other Ministers, has too much work to do it all properly. He has to rely on advisers, and he has had crook advisers on the siting of the new parliament house, lt. is about time that on the issue of the new parliament house we told the advisers responsible for the advice that the new parliament house should be on Camp Hill that they should give more attention to their advice than apparently they have given. It is bad enough to be misled by advisers on other matters but on a question concerning the building of the new parliament house it is inexcusable to let ourselves be misled. 
I want to complain also about the practice that is growing year by year - as one can see by examining the number of regulations issued - of the Government ruling by regulation and hamstringing debate on contentious legislative matters by leaving such issues until the end of the session when members are tired and are forced to short-circuit what they intended to say.  I  have a high regard for most senior public servants. They do know more about their subjects than their respective Ministers know but, at the same time, they carry the same sort of prejudices for or against issues or stances as other people carry. They are no different from other human beings. They have their human frailties. The best of them have the weaknesses which occur in all of us and the worst of them have many more weaknesses and prejudices than occur in most of us. A Minister should do some careful sorting out of his senior advisers to make certain that he is not being taken for a ride as have so many Ministers over the last 20 years, lt would not be possible for a Minister to be as stupid as is sometimes suggested by the advice he gives; he obviously has been helped, and the advice quite clearly has come freely and almost incessantly from senior public servants. 
I must say this about some senior public servants: Too few members of the Parliament bother to read the annual reports that are submitted by departments which are required to submit annual reports. Not many members of the Parliament - and this goes for Ministers too - could honestly say that they have read all of the annual reports that are submitted by those people who are required by law to make such reports to the Parliament, much less understood them. Indeed there are very few members who could say that they have read every annual report on the matters on which they have a particular interest and understood it. 
 The honourable member can speak for himself. I read all of the annual reports that are submitted concerning the Department of Labour and National Service. No doubt one gleans a lol of information from these annual reports, but I have come to believe that the people who write them are beginning to suspect that people do not read them to the extent that they should and they, in turn, are not bothering to put into those reports the amount of detail that they should put in them. Let me tell  Sir Richard  Kirby, who has to report to the Parliament each year on the functioning of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, that I read his reports, even if nobody else reads them, and I hope that he will be a little more comprehensive in his future reports than he has been in the past. I do not blame him. Once I became aware of the scant consideration that is given to reports that are submitted here annually I do not suppose I would feel much justification for expounding on a report. I believe that when reports are furnished, they should be read thoroughly by Ministers. 
How are members to find time to read the reports that are submitted? This is probably what the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  had in mind when he said that no-one reads them. The plain fact is that a member has not the time to read them for the simple reason that by the time he has dealt with constituency matters - social services, telephone complaints, complaints about immigration and the like - there is no time left to undertake the study, research and reading that he should be doing. This is why 1 am glad that the new parliamentary sittings will come into operation next month. We will sit continuously for 2 weeks and have a week off. This will force members, in my opinion, to set up residence in Canberra rather than return to their homes at the weekend preceding the resumption of the Parliament on the following Monday morning, lt will at least give the member of Parliament who does this an opportunity to study during that weekend. Since I have taken on the position of shadow Minister for Labour and National Service I have been forced to obtain a flat in Canberra so that I can study over the weekends when the Parliament is sitting and return to my constituency on the week off that occurs every 3 weeks. If I were not able to do this I could not possibly maintain an understanding of the intricate and highly sensitive Department of Labour and National Service. 
While I am on this point f want to make 2 comments. The first is that it will now cost me $102 every 3 weeks to bring my wife here. The only alternative is to live a separated life, so to speak, with my wife living in Adelaide and me living here. But I will pay this $102 every three weeks so that my wife can accompany me to Canberra when this new system of parliamentary working hours comes into effect. 
Previously it was not quite so bad. lt was costing me $102 only every month. But it is a lot of money when I have to do it month after month, year after year, lt becomes a heavy burden. Those honourable members who have no family obligations and who are therefore in a position to do this ought to do so. But when we do it we should not be compelled to pay these large sums of money out of our own pocket. After all, by our staying here the community is saving at least the cost of our fare back to our electorates. If we were reimbursed the cost of our wife's fare, the community instead of paying for 2 trips by the member each 3 weeks, would pay for I trip by the member and 1 by his wife. The cost of my wife's fare is a burden that I am prepared to meet but it is not one that I feel I ought to meet without mentioning. 
As a front bench member I am required to do a lot more work than I previously did. lt is quite impossible for a front bench member to keep up with the work done by the tremendous staff that the Minister has. No-one expects that. When I am dealing with a Minister who has 13 Second Division secretaries, a secretary and a stall of 600 to help him prepare his case to the Parliament, I need more than a single stenographer sitting over in Adelaide. I must have, and I need, staff here in Canberra as well. I am grateful to  Mr Speaker  for supplying me with an extra staff member last year when I had the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Bill to handle, but I do not have her assistance now. This is a hopeless job. I am falling further and further behind as I try to keep up with letters from union secretaries and from people who are interested in the affairs of the Department of Labour and National Service. Tt is just impossible now for me to do my job. Other honourable members on the front bench are in the same position. Perhaps they are not as badly off as I am but they are certainly in a position where they cannot do justice to their work without some extra help. 
I want to refer to the Hansard staff, because this was mentioned by another  speaker.  Just as he did, I want to pay tribute to their work, as I always do. lt is the hardest working reporting staff in the Commonwealth. Its members have to report .select committees. CommonwealthState conferences and conferences and other proceedings associated with at least 18 Commonwealth departments, lt is true that they receive 2 or 3 weeks extra leave a year during the recess but they receive nothing in the way of overtime for the hours that they work here, and sometimes they work until 2 o'clock in the morning and sometimes all night. I have k;:own it to happen that we have sat until daybreak and, of course, the Hansard staff is still sitting here and is required to resume again that day. They receive no overtime for this, and it seems to me to be grossly unfair. Although we make fine speeches praising their work, as we should if we are just and fair, none of us bothers to see what they are being paid for their work. I was quite aghast when I discovered that the Commonwealth Hansard staff is paid less than the Hansard staff in Western Australia and $800 a year less than members of the Queensland Hansard staff who do nowhere near the amount of work, nowhere near the amount of overtime, that our Hansard staff has to perform. 
I cannot help but again refer to the gross anomaly which exists where the female member of the Hansard staff is paid even now $428 a year less than a man for doing the same sort of work. The margin of difference was even greater when she was appointed but it is now being phased in under this odd scheme called the 'Phasing in of female equal rates of pay'. That young lady should have been paid the full male rate from the moment she sat at that desk to take up her Hansard duties, but she was not. This is one of the things that I believe needs urgent attention. If we cannot see the glaring anomalies that exist right under our very noses in this place, how can we claim to be people capable of seeing anomalies further afield? For that reason, T want something done about these anomalies quickly. 
Another point I want to make relates to copies of Hansard. I do not believe that 65 copies of the Hansard report of an important speech are enough. I believe that honourable members should have a much larger allocation of Hansard on the free list for at least 2 speeches a year, which the member can choose himself, so that he can, if he wishes, distribute those speeches throughout his electorate. I wanted to talk about the library, to congratulate  Mr Allan  Fleming on his promotion to the position of National Librarian and to pay tribute to the great and courteous work that he performed during the time that he was Commonwealth Parliamentary Librarian. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Onhow many occasions has a Judge of the Commonwealth industrial Court ordered a respondent to pay an unsuccessful claimant's costs in a ballot inquiry initiated pursuant to section 159 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
Who were the parties in each of these cases. 
What were the costs in each case. 
What is the name of the Judge who made the order in each case. 
asked the Minister  for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Has any organisation registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act been granted an Eligibility for Membership' which extends its right to enrol members to (a) industries or callings not covered by 'Description of Industry' in connection with which it is registered and (b) industries or callings excluded by the 'Description of Industry' in connection with which it is registered. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What are the cases that have been determined by the Commonwealth Industrial Court in proceedings instituted under (a) section 140 and (b) section 141 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act since 1957. 
What was the amount of taxed costs ordered against each (a) unsuccessful claimant, (b) partially successful claimant and (c) successful claimant in each such case. 
What was the amount of taxed costs ordered against each (a) successful respondent,(b) partially successful respondent and (c) successful respondent in each such case. 
In what cases did the Court make no order for costs when the Show Cause Rule was (a) discharged and (b) made absolute. 
I preface a question to the Prime Minister by saying that for more than 3 months a total of 38 questions have appeared on the notice paper in my name directed to the Minister for Labour and National Service and that so far none of these has been answered. Will the Prime Minister have a talk to the Minister to try to brighten him up a little and, if he is not prepared, with a staff ot about 600, to answer questions that have appeared on the notice paper for 3 months, will the Prime Minister consider having him replaced? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labour and National Service. On what date didthe Minister approve of the recent regulations which led to his request on 10th August 1970 for  Mr Justice  Smithers to examine whether Brian James Ross in fact held conscientious beliefs which did not enable him to undertake military service? In view of the Minister's statement that there are still no regulations which authorised his reference to  Mr Justice  Smithers, will he state why this innocent young man was permitted to serve 11 months in prison before the Minister bothered to take any action to have his case examined? Finally, in view of the fact that  Mr Justice  Smithers made his report to the Minister on 7th September 1970, how does he explain the fact that  Mr Ross  was permitted to remain in prison for 14 days after the learned judge had found that  Mr Ross  holds conscientious beliefs which do not allow him to engage in any form of military service? 

 - Mr Speaker, I do not wish to speak long- 
Motion (by  Mr Snedden)  put: 
That the question be now put 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
When  may 1  expect  an  answer to question  No. 412  which has been on the Notice Paper each sit-, ting day since  12th  March  1970. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
When may 1 expect an answer to question No. 448 which has been onthe Notice Paper each sitting day since 17 March 1970. 
asked the Minister  for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1000 which has been on the Notice Paper each sitting day since 12th May 1970. 
asked the Minister  for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
When may 1 expect an answer to question No. 981 which has been on the Notice Paper each sitting day since 8 th May 1970. 
asked the Minister  for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 850 which has been on the Notice Paper each sitting day since 22nd April 1970. 
asked the Minister  for Labour and National Service, upon' notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 849 which has been on the Notice Paper each sitting day since 22nd April 1970. 
asked the Minister  for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 848 which has been on the Notice Paper each sitting day since 22nd April 1970. 
asked the Minister  for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 80S which has been on the Notice Paper each sitting day since 21st April 1970. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 803 which has been on the Notice Paper each sitting day since 21st April 1970. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 802 which has been on the Notice Paper each sitting day since 21st April 1970. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 772 which has been on the Notice Paper each sitting day since 16th April 1970. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 714 which has been on the Notice Paper each sitting day since 15th April 1970. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 709 which has been on the Notice Paper each sitting day since 15th April 1970. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
When may 1 expect an answer to question No. 690 which has been on the Notice Paper each sitting day since 14th April 1970. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 665 which has been on the Notice Paper each sitting day since 14 April 1970. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 664 which has been on the Notice Paper each sitting day since 14th April 1970. 
asked the Minister for for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
When mayI expect an answer to question No. 664 which has been on the Notice Paper each sitting day since 14th April 1970. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
When mayI expect an answer to question No. 460 which has been on the Notice Paper each sitting day since 18th March 1970. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
When may 1 expect an answer to question No. 447 which  has  been  on  the Notice Paper eachsitting day since 17th March 1970. 
asked the' Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No.  416  which has been on the Notice Paper each sitting day since  12th  March  1970. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: ' 
When  may  I expect an answer to question No.  413  which has been on the Notice Paper each sit ting day since  12th  March  1970. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 383 which has been on the Notice Paper each sitting day since 11th March 1970. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
When may 1 expect an answer to question No. 1255 which has been on the Notice Paper each sitting day since 5th June 1970. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1254 which has been on the Notice Paper each sitting day since 5th June 1970. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1253 which has been on the Notice Paper each sitting day since 5th June 1970. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
When may 1 expect an answer to question No.  1222 which has been on the Notice Paper each sitting day since 3rd June 1970. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1221 which has been on the Notice Paper each sitting day since 3rd June 1970. 
asked the Minister  for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1219 which has been on the Notice Paper each sitting day since 3rd June 1970. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1216 which has been on the Notice Paper each sitting day since 3rd June 1970. 
asked the Minister  for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1214 which has been on the Notice Paper each sitting day since 3rd June 1970. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1213 which has been on the Notice Paper each sitting day since 3rd June 1970. 
asked the Minister  for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
When may 1 expect an answer to question No. 1124 which has been on the Notice Paper each sitting day since 20th May 1970. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1089 which has been on the Notice Paper each sitting day since 19th May 1970. 
asked the Minister  for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1088 which has been on the Notice Paper each sitting day since 19th May 1970. 
asked the Minister  for Labour and National Service, upon  notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1040 which has been on the Notice Paper each sitting day since 12th May 1970. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon  notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1012 which has been on the Notice Paper each sitting day since 12th May 1970. 
asked the Minister  for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
When may 1 expect an answer to question No. 1002 which has been on the Notice Paper each sitting day since 12th May 1970. 
asked the Minister  for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1001 which has been on the Notice Paper each sitting day since 12th May 1970. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Did any discussions take place at the recent conference between the Commonwealth, the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the National Employers Policy Committee as to whether an accredited job representative should be granted the necessary time off without loss of pay to (a) attend the enrolment of employees eligible to become members of his union (b) communicate with the full-time officials of his organisation whenever such communication becomes necessary during working hours (c) discuss grievances with fellow employees on the job during working hours and (d) communicate and discuss complaints with management during working hours. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Did any discussion take place at the recent Conference between the Commonwealth, the Aus 
Employers . Policy Committee as to (a) defining what shall constitute a bona fide safety issue and (b) the determination of a code of minimum safety standards for the prevention of industrial accident and disease. 
asked the Minister for 
Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Did the  President  of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in his 1969 Annual Report state that although be bad given deep and considered thought concerning the policy of the legislation in regardto sanctions, he had decided not to express his view on the matter unless invited to do so. 
Has he seen fit to invite the  President  to give his views on the matter. 
If so, will he inform the Parliament of the views conveyed to him by the Honourable  Sir Richard  Kirby. 
asked the Minister  for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Does the Government support the Discrimination (Employment and Occupation) Recommendation of the International Labour Organisation which recommended to all member governments that all persons, without discrimination, should enjoy equality of opportunity and treatment in respect of remuneration for work of equal value and that government agencies should apply nondiscriminatory employment policies in all their activities? (2)If so, when does the Government intend to implement the Recommendation in respect of all female employees of the Commonwealth Government? 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Did the Commonwealth or the National Employers Policy Committee give any undertaking during their meeting with representatives, of the Australian Council of Trade Unions to guarantee that there will be no victimisation of accredited job representatives who are called upon to represent the views of their fellow employees in discussions with representatives of employers, in accordance with the procedures agreed upon for avoiding and settling industrial disputes. 
Is it essential that an accredited job representative should be free to state fearlessly the views and grievances of those whom he represents without even the slightest possibility of suffering victimisation. 
If so, will he consider amending the Act in such a way as to prohibit the dismissal of an accredited job representative for any reason which may be related to his union position, with the provision that where a dismissal of a job representative takes place, the onus should be on the employer to prove that the dismissal was not directly or indirectly due to his activities as a job representative. 
 I second the motion.  Sir, I  will not be very long because the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  has dealt with the matter fairly fully. No-one in this Parliament can be satisfied and no-one in the country will be satisfied until the character and the credibility of 2 people sitting on the front bench are either established, or. if not established, they are removed from office. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  has made a statement that the News and Information Bureau acted upon his instructions. The Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon)  said that no instructions were given and that no instructions could be given. He now says by way of interjection, by me', which strengthens my point that the instructions were given. The Minister is very careful to qualify this by saying that they were not given by hint. But the Minister said more in his public statement - that they were not given by him and could not be given by anyone else. I believe that the British precedent in the Profumo case is one that no self respecting Parliament- 
I am surprised that Government supporters laugh about Profumo. Is it because Profumo represented the same side of politics as they represent that they see nothing wrong in a Minister of the Crown telling Her Majesty's Parliament a deliberate lie? 
Profumo, I am speaking about, sir. 
But I am going to go very close to the same sort of thing in a minute. 
I am well aware of the Standing Orders and I am well aware of the meaning of your ruling,  Sir, and  I do not disagree with it, but this Parliament cannot determine who is telling the truth in this issue until we bring to the bar of the House the person who is in charge of the Bureau. We have to remember some things about this that are terribly relevant to whether or not we should suspend standing orders for the purpose of dealing with this matter. There is, first of all, the Prime Minister's statement when he said: 
It is all very well for the Leader of the Opposition to make soothing noises as to what is going on but yesterday we saw him speaking to a crowd, an orderly crowd, but a crowd with Vietcong flags flying above them and above his head as he spoke to them. 
'Hear, hear*, says the Prime Minister. Does the Prime Minister say that is still true? 
All right, that is the first part. Do you say that the flags were flying above his head as he spoke? 
The fact that we cannot get a reply from the Prime Minister to that request shows that there is a need to get an answer from the head of the Information Bureau. This is a most serious thing. I have been in this Parliament for 21 years and never once in the whole of the time I have been in this chamber have I seen anybody in this Parliament face a motion of this character. This is the most serious thing that I have ever heard of or read about. This is a measure of the credibility of Government members if they laugh this off and think it is just a joke. 1 have never in my life ever known a Prime .Minister of this country to be treated as one whose word had to be tested at the bar of the House. 
Good.  Sir, the  only way that we can ascertain certain most important, vital and crucial facts is to have the head of the Bureau before us so that we can question him. The vital facts that require the suspension of standing orders in order that this can be tested are these: If it is true that the Information Bureau was in attendance, as we were told in order to catch pictures of people in conflict with the police so that the police would have a defence against other pictures that might be produced against them, then why were pictures taken of the Leader of the Opposition when he was nowhere near a police officer, nowhere near a scuffle and nowhere near any disorder? And why is it, we want to know, that the picture that was taken was falsified and faked by somebody before it was presented to the Parliament? We ought to be able to ascertain whether the honourable member for LaTrobe  (Mr Jess)  knew that he was misleading  Her  Majesty's Parliament when he presented and tabled a faked photograph because, if he did, that is a serious matter. I do not believe that he did. I disagree with the honourable member on many, if not most, things but I regard him as a man of integrity. 1 do not believe that he would willingly lend himself to such a scurvy trick as this to discredit a member of this House, much less the Leader of  Her  Majesty's Opposition, but I do want to know who faked the picture. 
I want to know whether it is true that a member of the Prime Minister's own staff admitted that the picture had been faked and whether an officer of the Prime Minister's own staff actually demonstrated to a Press man how it was faked and. drew a line on the original picture to show the parts that were taken out, and whether it is true that on the original picture it showed clearly that there was a roadway between the Leader of the Opposition and the Vietcong Hag. I want to know who carried the Vietcong flag - whether it was being carried by an officer of the News and Information Bureau. 1 want to know whether the Prime Minister has stooped to this sort of faking, because whoever was responsible for faking the photograph would have faked the flag and would have had a faked carrier of the flag. 1 want to know who carried the flag. Was he employed by the Government? If not. was he a Liberal supporter? Was the person carrying the flag working in concert with the person who took the. photograph? To me, this is a most serious matter and it can only be resolved by having the head of the Information Bureau stand at the bar of the House so that he may be questioned on oath as to the facts of the matter. Until that is done 1 believe that a cloud of suspicion and doubt hangs over the head of the Minister for the Interior and a cloud of suspicion and doubt - very great doubt indeed - hangs over the integrity of the Prime Minister. 
Opposition Members  -  Aye. 
 You have something to hide. 
 As I said earlier, I cannot ever recall a more serious, more solemn and more distressing circumstance than the one which we now have to face. Never before, as I said, can 1 ever recall this sort of thing happening in the Parliament of the Commonwealth in the whole history of the Commonwealth. I searched the records as quickly as I could and I can find no reference at all to where a Prime Minister's integrity or his word of honour has been under impeachment as it now and where people are doubting the integrity of the man who holds the highest position in the land. I want to know some very important and most relevant things. I am now going to ask the Government speakers who follow me to answer these questions. Who gave the photograph to the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  which he tabled? 
-It is very much the business of the Parliament to try to get to the depth of a charge of faking photographs which have been taken by a Government agency and which are now being used for party political purposes. It is very much my business and it is very much the business of this Parliament to get to the depth of this matter. I notice that the honourable member for La Trobe has disappeared. I wish someone would bring him back and invite him to stand up in this place I would prefer him to stand at the dispatch box - and tell this Parliament where he got the photograph. I am informed that he got it from an officer of the Prime Minister's Department - a member of the Prime Minister's staff. Now that I have made that allegation it is the bounden duty of the honourable member for La Trobe to deny it if it is not true. If it is true. I do not believe the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  when he says that he knew nothing of the photograph until it was tabled in the Parliament. The Prime Minister twitted the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  for saying that, as far as he could recall, there was no Vietcong flag in the vicinity of his meeting and that he could not recall speaking anywhere near a Vietcong flag. Realising the weakness of his position the Prime Minister said: 'Oh, look, let us forget about the phrase "under the flag" and let us deal with the matter in isolation from the statement.' How can we do that? It is that very statement which the Leader of the Opposition has challenged and it is that very statement on the part of the Prime Minister against which this Parliament ought to take umbrage if it is untrue. 
At a Liberal Party convention last Saturday week the Prime Minister said: 
It is all very well for the Leader of the Opposition to make soothing noises as to what is going on, but yesterday- 
Listen to this -  we saw him speaking to a crowd - an orderly crowd - but a crowd with Vietcong flags flying above them, and above his head- 
That is, above the head of the Leader of the Opposition -  as he spoke to them. 
Is that not saying that when the Leader of the Opposition was speaking to the crowd a Vietcong flag was flying above them - above his head? That statement was 
Untrue.  Since  we  are now dealing with the integrity and the probity of the Prime Minister,  it  is possible that  it  was a lie. 
Thank you,  Sir. The  Prime Minister has sought to excuse the use of the police for taking photographs of innocent bystanders at an ordinary, quietly conducted public meeting, and so has the Minister for Interior, on the basis that in the event of there being a scuffle or any violence it would be necessary for the police to have some record to show that the violence was not commenced or caused by themselves. Since in this case there was no violence and the police were not involved in any scuffle, why was it necessary to take any photographs? Seventy photographs were taken. Why, on the other hand, was it necessary for people who were presumably sent there to take photographs to protect the good name of the police in the event of their being involved in a scuffle to take several photographs of the Leader of the Opposition, who was nowhere near a scuffle, who was nowhere near the demonstration at the time and who had a 50 feet road separating him from the demonstrators and who was seen talking to 3 innocent, harmless university students without the slightest attempt of being attacked by the police or the police being attacked by them? There were no police in the photographs. 
In my opinion this shows beyond all doubt - in fact it is conclusive proof to me - that the photographers were sent there deliberately for party political purposes, that the Vietcong flag may have been put there by an agent of the Government and that an attempt was made to have this flag taken in the same photograph as the Leader of the Opposition in cheap, scurvy, miserable political point against the Leader of the Opposition. Members of the Government fear him. They know that he is an upstanding man of great probity and dignity. They know he would look more like a Prime Minister than their own leader does. Therefore they have to do every possible thing to drag him down and destroy him. They used to say the same thing about  Mr Chifley  when he was alive. On the very day that he died the 'Sydney Morning Herald' had him described as an agent of the Kremlin, ft did not know he was going to die while the article was being printed. The next day it described him as Australia's finest son. 
So it is with our present leader. When honourable members opposite fear the Leader of the Opposition most they stoop to the lowest, shabbiest, dirtiest tricks to try to destroy him. No-one can destroy a man whose integrity is as high as that of the Leader of the Opposition. They then seek to say: 'Why did the Leader of the Opposition appear at the rally at all?1 The Leader of the Opposition has a right, a duty and an obligation to appear at a rally when called upon to do so. He has no reason to run away from anybody. He represents a Party that has a firm policy on conscription, compulsory national service and the Vietnam war. It was his duty to stand up fearlessly and defend that policy, as he has always done. He did not make the policy. He perhaps did not necessarily agree with it, but once the policy was made it was bis bounden duty not to shirk any opportunity that might present itself to state what the policy was. I venture to say that the policy stated by the Leader of the Opposition to that demonstration would not have pleased everybody at the demonstration. It certainly did not please the Government agents who were walking around with Vietcong flags in order to be photographed and thus give a photograph bearing a resemblance of a man talking to a bunch of Vietcong agents. Of course it did not please them. 
Let me remind the Prime Minister of a statement made by that outstanding commentator,  Mr Frank  Chamberlain, easily I would think the best commentator on radio today. My friend the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  reminded me of his remark a moment ago. He said that one of. the things that Churchill was most shaken by in dealing with the Axis powers was the way in which the Nazi Party had resorted to the use of photography to damage and destroy its proposed victims. One of the things to which Churchill referred was the photographing of innocent people in the streets. Churchill thought that this was one of the most abhorrent things he could imagine. 
Of course it is. He also referred to the tapping of telephones, something which this Government has authorised and given legal effect to by legislative means. I remember  Sir Robert  Menzies, when he was Prime Minister, coming back from an overseas conference on the Suez crisis in 1956 and giving a report to Anthony Eden on what he had discovered on his trip up the Nile with the late  President  Nasser. He said that Egypt had all the hallmarks of a police state, and he quoted 3 of the things that gave Egypt the hallmarks of a police state. The first thing he mentioned was the tapping of telephones. If honourable members on either side think that is not a correct statement of fact, let them read Anthony Eden's memoirs and they will find it there stated. 
I believe we are marching headlong towards a police state. The reason why we fight for our country and spend millions on defence is to prevent this country from becoming a police state. The reason why people light and die for their country is to prevent this country from becoming a police state. What will we have achieved, what will the enormous wealth we have poured into defence have meant and what will the lives of those who have died have meant to us if, after their sacrifice, we finish up with a system of government with all the evil features for which we have every right to condemn those countries which are police states. 

 Mr GORTON (Higgins - Prime Minister) -  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a very short personal explanation. The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has just suggested that it would have been impossible for me to go to the Liberal Party meeting and say that I had seen those crowds and seen those flags and seen them flying above the crowds and above the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  unless I had seen the picture to which he refers. The explanation I would like to make is that this is quite wrong because I have a very good view through my window of what happens out there and it was on that that I was reporting. For the rest,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  he also indicated that 1 was seeking in some way to avoid anything to do with the presentation of that particular photograph to this House. This is true. But if 1 had known of it and if 1 had seen it, I would have thought that it would have been a very proper thing to table in this House in view of the statement made by the Leader of the Opposition. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Public Service Arbitrator last year made a Determination having effect from 21st December 1969, under which officers of the Commonwealth Railways received salary increases which, when compared with salaries paid in 1961, amounted to percentage increases of (a) 86 per cent for the Secretary, (b) 62.6 per cent for the Chief Mechanical Engineer, (c) 62.6 per cent for the Chief Civil Engineer, (d) 62.6 per cent for the Chief Traffic Manager, (e) 90 per cent for the Comptroller of Stores and (f) 69.9 per cent for the Comptroller of Accounts and Audit. 
Is it also a fact that on 3rd December 1969, the Public Service Arbitrator while sitting as a member of the bench of the Arbitration Commission which fixed salary increases for professional engineers joined in awarding a salary range which, compared with the salaries paid to professional engineers in 1961, represented a total increase of only 31 per cent. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Why did the Public Service Board in December 1969 limit salary increases for professional engineers to rates representing an increase of only 31 per cent on 1961 salaries when in the same month the Commonwealth offered no opposition to salary increases to certain engineering and other grades in the Commonwealth Railways which represented increases ranging from 62.6 per cent to as high as 90 per cent on their 1961 salaries. 
asked the Minister  for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Can he say how many inspections were carried out by (a) Commonwealth arbitration inspectors and (b) State arbitration inspectors in each State since 1960. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Which Government was responsible for making Regulation 138 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Regulations, under which the Registrar is authorised to grant financial assistance to a member of a registered organisation desiring to test the validity of a rule of an organisation or to enforce performance and observance of a rule of an organisation. 
On how many occasions have applications been made for such assistance. 
On how many occasions have such applications been (a) approved and (b) rejected. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Public Service Board agreed to meet the Association of Professional Engineers, Australia, the Professional Officers' Association and the Association of Architects, Engineers, Surveyors and Draughtsmen of Australia on 18th June 1970, to discuss claims for a new salary range for professional engineers. 
Is it also a fact that when the meeting took place on the above-mentioned date, the  Chairman  of the Board informed the organisations concerned that the Board was not prepared to negotiate and at the same time handed out a prepared statement indicating that the Board's opposition to further increases in salaries for professional engineers had already been made before the date set for the meeting. 
Did the Board consult with the Government before rejecting the claim for salary increases. 
Does the Government approve the Board's decision. 
 The Department of Labour and National Service is one of the most complex departments that a Minister can be called upon to administer. It is certainly the most sensitive, lt is responsible for the compilation of industrial statistics. It is responsible for the smooth operation of the conciliation and arbitration system. It is responsible for the law that governs the relationship between unions and employers and also for the relationship that should exist between unions and their officials. Unless all of these factors are properly governed, peace in industry becomes impossible and the whole nation suffers. In all probability, I will not have time to do more than merely mention what is certainly the most topical of all functions which the Department must carry out. I refer, of course, to its responsibility for coercing 20-year old conscripts into the undeclared and utterly indefensible war in Vietnam. 
Without covering the whole field of industrial relations, 1 must, however, also mention the Department's obligations under the various Conventions of the International Labour Organisation. 1 do this because in this area the Commonwealth has not only failed to ratify or implement ILO Conventions, but has actively lent itself to the violation of them. If one can accept some of the replies given by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  to the questions that I have asked, one is entitled to conclude that there is an urgent need for a general overhaul of his Department and of the way in which the Commonwealth Industrial Court and the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission are functioning. Before moving to a more detailed examination of how the Conciliation and Arbitration Act is being administered, I want to say something about the subject of productivity and its relationship to wage rates and gross national product. For years now, the Government, employers and the public media have been calling for some productivitywage relativity. Union leaders in that time have been demanding a greater share of the increased productivity which technological advance has already made possible. Many union leaders have in return offered to co-operate with management further to increase productivity, provided labour shares in the benefits. One prerequisite to any proposal for increasing productivity is to increase labour's share of the profits tha; flow from the increased output. But before any of this is possible, there must be reliable machinery for measuring and recording productivity trends in the nation generally and in respective industries. 
The Minister for Labour and National Service has confessed to Parliament that no such machinery exists at present. This, in spite of the fact that it is more than 10 years since I first called upon the Government to request the Commonwealth Statistician to set up the necessary machinery for measuring and recording productivity. This, however, is only one of the Government's failures in the field of industrial relations. It has failed to compile proper statistics on the incidence and causation of industrial accidents. Nothing has been done to study ways and means of reducing the astronomical loss of production caused by industrial accident and disease, which is estimated to be in the vicinity of $ 1,000m a year. The Government has failed to rectify the most obvious, and in many instances, longstanding defects in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The Minister has been slothful in his handling of questions asked in Parliament on notice, and when answers are supplied they are sometimes evasive, incomplete or inaccurate. The Government's lack of interest in the vital field of industrial relations, which is so essential to our national growth and prosperity, can be gauged by the fact that it has allowed a build-up of 34 years backlog in the publication of the Commonwealth Arbitration Reports. On 5 separate occasions the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission,  Sir Richard  Kirby, has directed the Government's attention to its inordinate delay in publishing these important records of the Commission's decisions and findings. 
Even though the work of the Commonwealth Industrial Court is but a fraction of that carried out by the Commission, there is another backlog in the printing of the Court's judgments. At 30th April 1970, 42 judgments of the Court which are normally printed were not available in printed form. Fifteen of these were delivered in 1968; 23 in 1969 and the remainder in 1970. Under this Government the whole machinery of conciliation and arbitration is slowly grinding to a breakdown. The Government placed its faith in penalties. When these failed, the whole system collapsed because the Government was too tired and complacent to examine and rectify defects in the law, and too drunk with power to listen to advice. Some people may believe that  21  years in office is too long for even a good government. But in the complex and sensitive arena of industrial relations, an arrogant, lazy and know-all government is utterly disastrous. For proof that such an assertion is correct one has only to look at the sorry scene in Australia today. 
We now see more industrial dissent and unrest than at any time in more than a generation. The Ministers ham-fisted handling of industrial matters has been only partly responsible for today's chaos. Rising prices and exorbitant profits have also played a part. The Government's lethargy in award enforcement has been a contributing factor. And the slow, clumsy and heavy-handed arbitration system that has evolved under this Government is easily the chief cause of our industrial troubles. In short, the Government has brought the whole system of conciliation and arb,traion into disrepute. Something like  1,740,000  employees are covered by Federal awards and yet only  52  Commonwealth arbitration inspectors are employed on award enforcement. Most of the work is carried out by State inspectors of whom no less than  239  have been authorised to do the Commonwealth's work. Last year,  8,776  breaches of Federal awards were reported; but out of a total of  72,084  breaches reported during the past  10  years, legal proceedings were instituted in only  210  cases. 
By loading the Commission with legal practitioners, who at the time of appointment were predominantly occupied in representing, employer, interests, .the Gov-eminent has adversely affected the Commission's image of impartiality and given rise to suspicions of Bench stacking.  Mr Justice  Moore,  Mr Justice  Williams,  Mr Justice  Aird,  Mr Justice  Franki and  Mr Justice  Robinson were all actively engaged in representing employing interests at the time of their respective appointments. The Government appears to have recognised the value of balanced appointments at the commissioner and conciliator level. Yet not one union barrister has been appointed to a Presidential position on the Commission in the  21  years the Government has held office. So far as the Arbitration Commission is concerned, I want to say just that it has become virtually nothing more than the economic arm of the Government. Perhaps there is not much wrong with Parliament being directly responsible for determining the national policy on industrial matters. If parliamentarians were made to stand up and be counted on the bread and butter issues now reserved to non-elected and life appointed judges, wage and salary earners would have a much greater stake in parliamentary democracy than is now the case. When governments want to influence the Court or the Commission they should do it openly and only with the approval of Parliament in a way that permits full redress to those affected by the outcome. 
The Government had no authority from Parliament to oppose the Australian Council of Trade Union's annual leave case. It had no authority from Parliament to make the submissions it has presented to the Commission in the various national wage cases. The Public Service Board had no authority from Parliament to oppose the ACTU case for equal pay and the Board certainly had no authority from Parliament to make the submissions it did in the professional engineers' case. All of these things were done by, or with the approval of, the executive Government without consultation with, much less the approval of, Parliament. The head of Charles I must now appear to have been taken in vain. 
Perhaps the most blatant interference with the Commission has come from the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  himself. On at least two separate occasions he has sought to direct and intimidate the Commission by publicly stating the Government's policy on matters before the Commission. He did "it in the recent -oil*- industry case. aird- tiedid it again on the eve of this year's national wage case.  His  action caused such apprehension within the trade union movement that the  President  of the ACTU,  Mr Bob  Hawke, felt constrained to publicly rebuke the Prime Minister for commenting on cases which were awaiting judgment. The Government's impropriety in these matters has weakened the independence of the Commission and thus lessened respect for its findings. 
Arbitration has become far too technical, far too costly, and too slow and incompetent. It must now give way to conciliation. Its only future lies in the fixation of national minima for wages and conditions of employment. In these areas it still has a useful and very important role to perform. Minima rates and conditions would, of course, be recoverable at law and it would still remain the task of arbitration inspectors to inspect records and deal with claims for under payment of wages, etc. A Labor government, therefore, will retain the arbitration system, but will lay much greater emphasis than is now the case on the value of conciliation. A Labor government will amend the arbitration legislation in such a way as to encourage the negotiation of industrial agreements of limited duration. Provided an agreement has been approved by a secret ballot of the unionists affected by it, no union should be justified in striking against any of its agreed provisions. Given this kind of guarantee of peace in industry, employers will be able to carry out their costing and production planning in the certain knowledge that these will not be disrupted by unexpected work stoppages or new wage demands. 
Under a Labor government penalties for strike action against wages and conditions arbitrarily imposed upon unions will be repealed. A Labor government would also repeal the present penalties against lockouts. Lock-out penalties have never been more than an empty gesture in order to justify penalties against strikes. No employer has ever been convicted or fined for a lock-out since the advent of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act in 1904. Moreover, none ever will be penalised because it is too easy for an employer to convert a proposed lock-out into a strike. Given these conditions, a wise employer will soon see the advantage of a negotiated and enforceable industrial agreement over an unenforceable arbitrary decision of the Commission. To secure the benefit of such an agreement, employers will be forced to make concessions to unions which would not be available from the Commission. Industrial peace will be the employer's reward. A better share of industry's prosperity will be the union's inducement to keep the peace. 
As already indicated, membership particpation and responsibility, will become the cornerstone for the success of any plan for a negotiated settlement of industrial disputes. For this reason, I, feel that con sideration should be given to writing a Bill of Membership Rights into the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The United States of America has already done this, and Canada is now considering the matter. The Industrial Court would then have to ensure that union officials and union policy remained under the effective control of the membership. I do not know the issues which will dominate the Government's campaigning during the forthcoming Senate elections. To me there can be no more important issue than the nation's future development and the prosperity of its people. This surely transcends any petty political gain that may be had from relatively unimportant side issues. We cannot achieve these great and vitally important objectives unless we have a government that will give urgent attention to industrial relations. We cannot afford the loss which management and labour now suffer through the lack of proper means for the prevention or settlement of industrial disputation. 
A Labor Senate victory will indicate public support for the restructuring of our machinery for conciliation and arbitration. This, followed by the election of a Labor government in the House of Representatives, will see a new era of labour management co-operation out of which increased productivity will lead to higher real wages, and higher wages and greater co-operation will lead to higher and higher productivity. With the will we can find the way, and given the way there is no limit to our country's greatness. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a 5-year study by the Goals of Engineering Education Committee of the American Society for Engineering Education, which concluded that to train properly an engineer in a greater social consciousness with depth of scientific and technical knowledge and the ability to manage men, engineering graduates needed at least 1 year of graduate study in addition to the normal 4-year course. 
Is it a fact that the youth in Australia do not appear to be showing an interest in engineering as a career to the same extent as in most other comparable countries, and that male engineers qualifying per year as a percentage of the relevant male age group is (a) Australia 1.6, (b) Japan 3.1 and (c) Union of Soviet Socialist Republics 5.6. 
If so, will he recognise the vital and decisive role which engineers will play, if Australia is to meet the challenge of the seventies in the development of our economy in a savagely competitive world market, by ordering a full-scale enquiry by a high level committee to examine and urgently report upon (a) the number of engineers needed to meet the nation's needs, (b) the class of engineers required, (rj) the standard of scientific technological knowledge required to keep pace with world advance and (d) the necessity for a high degree of technical specialisation in the field of research and development. 
Will he, in the meantime, confer with the Prime Minister with a view to impressing upon him the urgent need for a re-appraisal of the current salary range payable to professional engineers employed by the Commonwealth as an indirect means of lifting the salary status of engineers generally, thus providing one of the incentives needed to attract more Australian youths to the profession. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that in October 1969 his predecessor promised that the law and practice in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea relating to International Labour Organisation Convention No. 1 10 on conditions of work of plantation workers was being re-examined. 
Has this re-examination been completed; if so, with what result. 
Why has not the Commonwealth ratified the Convention. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Which of the more important provisions of International Labour Organisation Convention No. 110 on plantation workers' conditions have been complied with in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. 
Which of the provisions of the Convention are not applicable to the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. 
Which of the provisions have not been given full effect. 
What are the conditions in Papua and New Guinea which make the Convention inapplicable to the Territory. 
asked the Minister for External Territories upon notice: 
Is he able to  say  whether  the  Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd company informed  the  Australian Council of Trade Unions party which conducted negotiations with  that  company  concerning  wage rates at Bougainville  that the  company was fully prepared to bridge  the gap  between expatriate and indigene wage rates  but that  this had  been  prevented by  the  Administrator of  the  Territory of Papua  and  New Guinea. 
Has he or his departmental officers  any  knowledge of  any  steps being taken by  the company  to equate indigene rates of  pay  with those payable to expatriate workers. 
Is the  company required to obtain  approval from the  Administrator  or his  department  before it is  permitted  to remove the  present discrimination  between wages paid to  indigenous  and nonindigenous workers. 
If so, has this permission been sought. 
If the company has sought permission when was it sought and what was the outcome of the request. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will be arrange to include in ail future issues of the Labour Report an intelligible table showing the productivity per unit of work force in the various manufacturing industries in each year since these statistics were first compiled. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that members of the Commonwealth Public Service Board are not permanently appointed and may be replaced at the end of their appointed term. 
Are members of the Board expected to act independently of Government policy. 
If so, what guarantee is given to members of the Board that re-appointment is not prejudiced by decisions that are independent of, and in any given case opposed to, Government policy. 
In view of the fact that presidential members of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission are appointed for life and Conciliation Commissioners are appointed until they attain the age of 65 years, will he give consideration to amending the Public Service Act in such a way as to give to all members of the Public Service Board the same tenure of office and opportunity for independence as is already enjoyed by Conciliation Commissioners. 
asked the Minister  for  External Territories, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that earlier this year the Public Service Association of Papua and New Guinea wrote to the Administrator seeking clarification on a circular issued by his Department about public discussion by public servants and that the Administrator failed to furnish a reply. 
Is it also a fact that public servants in the Territory are now obliged to determine their rights and obligations from a circular from (a) the Public Service Board (1970), (b) the Public Service Commissioner (1963) and (c) the Administrator (1970). 
What is meant by the Public Service Board when it uses the phrase 'the public affairs of the Territory'. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
What progress has been made by the board of inquiry appointed to deal with the terms and conditions of rural agreement workers in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea, which is referred to in his answer to Question No. 1258 (Hansard, 18th August 1970, page 123) and when is it expected to give its report. 
J wish to make a personal explanation. I have been misrepresented. 
Will the Minister for Labour and National Service tell the House which act or regulation gives a  person liable to register for national service the right to join the Citizen Military Forces as a lawful alternative to national service? Which Act or regulation. gives a member of the CMF immunity from service in Vietnam? If there is no Act or regulation which (a) gives a person liable to register for national service the right to join the CMF as a lawful alternative to national service or (b) gives a member of the CMF immunity from service in Vietnam, is there any Act or regulation which would prevent the Minister from taking administrative action to require a member of the CMF to serve in Vietnam? 
Yes, 1 have been misrepresented by the Minister for Labour and National Service. In answering my question concerning the lawful right of a person to join the Citizen Military Forces as an alternative to national service training and whether there was any Act of Parliament which gave a member of the CMF immunity from service in Vietnam the Minister chose to ignore both parts of the question and instead misrepresented the question by stating that he was pleased to note- 
The Minister said he was pleased to note that 1 had in my question admitted that there was a lawful alternative to national service training and that was by joining the CMF. My question did not give that impression, nor did it make that admission. My question was this:   . . . which Act or Regulation gives a person liable to register for national service the right to join the Citizen Military Forces as a lawful alternative to national service?  ] asked which Act gave a person the right to join the CMF as a lawful alternative. I did not say, as the Minister attributed to mc, that it was a lawful alternative to doing national service training. The Minister has still nol answered the question. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Has he had any discussion with the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission concerning the policy of the legislation in regard to sanctions. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Did the editors of Butterworth's Fourth Edition of 'Federal Industrial Laws' at page 380 slate that  Mr Justice  Dunphy exhibited some rather dubious reasoning when he ruled in the case of Commonwealth Steamship Owners Association v. Waterside Workers' Federation of Australia that an organisation, party to a batt, is concerned in that ban at every moment of time that the ban continues. 
Did he say in answer to question No. 1556 that the editors did not express the view that the Judge exhibited some rather dubious reaso'ning in his judgment in the abovementioned case; if so, why. 
asked the Prime 
Minister, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that, as a matter of policy the Public Service Board will not recognise without prejudice consent determinations as tentative or interim settlements of disputes in salary or wage claims by staff associations. 
If so, will be state how such a policy can assist in settlement of industrial disputes within the Commonwealth Public Service. 
asked the Prime 
Minister, upon notice: 
What are the occasions during the past five years on which a permanent bead of a department has taken the initiative in recommending to the Public Service Board a change in the salary levels for a particular staff group within his department. 
asked the Prime 
Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Public Service Board ever sought the approval of the Government before making a regulation introducing new pay rates. 
If so, in connection with which proposed regulation did this action take place. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Does the Commonwealth discriminate between male and female in rates of wages and salaries paid to its own employees. 
If so, does this discrimination comply with the Discrimination (Employment and Occupations) Recommendation of the International Labour Organisation. 

 Mr Snedden: The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) In relation to wages and salaries for its female employees the Commonwealth applies the principles laid down by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in its decision of 19th June 1969 (Print No. B.4237). As regards I.L.O. Recommendation No.111 - Discrimination (Employment and Occupation),1958,  I  would draw the attention of the honourable member to the answer to question No. 448 in which  I  indicated that there is substantial compliance, as regards Commonwealth employees, with I.L.O. Convention No.111 - Discrimination (Employment and Occupation), 1958 which Recommendation No.111 supplements. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
When is it anticipated that the Commonwealth, the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the National Employers Policy Committee will complete the drawing up of detailed procedures on principles for guidance in establishing and using effective procedures for avoiding and settling industrial disputes. 
How many times have these bodies met to draw up the proposed procedures. 
What was the date of the last meeting, and when is it proposed to hold the next meeting. 
asked the' Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What are the (a) names, (b) places of employment, (c) duties and (d) salaries of the Second Division officers employed by the Department of Labour and National Service. (2 What is the (a) number and (b) classification of persons attached to the personal staff of each of the Second Division officers. 
asked' the Minister  for Labour and National. Service, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Public Service Arbitration Act requires that claims made by staff associations shall be served on each Minister of State concerned as well as upon the Public Service Board itself. 
Does each Minister have a statutory right to present his own views to the Arbitrator. 
If so, when was the last occasion that a Minister exercised such a right. 
 I rise to try to inject some sense of responsibility into the remarks made so far by most of the speakers in this debate, except the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  and the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant). 
There should be no necessity for an 'urgency' debate on this matter. But the Opposition is not prepared to remain silent and idle in the face of the repeated pronouncements by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and other Ministers which are clearly calculated to embarrass, compromise and prejudice the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in the discharge of its constitutional and statutory functions. The Government is attempting to use the Commission as an instrument for implementing its own discredited economic policies in the belief that it can thus transfer the public's odium to a body that is unanswerable to the electorate. When the Prime Minister told the 1 970 convention of the New South Wales Division of the Liberal Party that the Commission would cause damage to the Government's economic policies if it increased wages, he was merely confirming a view held by most observers that the Government has come to treat the Commission as a de facto part of its economic machinery, and therefore obliged to put government policy into effect. The fact that the Commission has appeared willing to accept this role is to be regretted by all who want the system to succeed. 
The Prime Minister went even further in his now notorious after dinner speech to the Chamber of Manufactures in August of this year, for on that occasion he told a gathering which actually included the  President  of the Commission,  Sir Richard  Kirby, that it would be disastrous for Australia if a profitable company could be called on to pay more than industry generally. That statement was telling the Commission to reject the submissions of the Australian Council of Trade Unions in the then pending oil industry wage case. As a matter of fact, the Commission did reject the ACTU submissions and there will always remain the suspicion that it was influenced by the publicly reported text of the Prime Minister's speech. I cannot prove that the Commission rejected the ACTU's oil industry case on account of the Prime Minister's warning. What I do say  -  I speak for the whole of my Party on this point - is that the Commission must always be seen to be independent of outside influence if it is to enjoy the full confidence of those who appear before it. There must be no reason to suspect that the Commission is the political creature of the Government. All parties appearing before the Commission must be satisfied that its decisions are based upon the submissions, arguments and evidence presented by the parties during the hearing and not merely upon the after dinner speeches of the Prime Minister. 1 am in good company when J express these sentiments because the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  in a talk to the Committee for Economic Development of Australia on 8th of this month said: 
The Commission, whether at the level of Presidential or lay members, is expected to reach decisions based on the submissions, arguments and evidence presented by the parties and interveners, and should not be influenced by backroom economists oi other expert advisers whose views are not subject to the normal processes of crossexamination and public scrutiny. 
That was a fully justified rebuke to the Prime Minister for his unexaminable vapourings on what questions should be considered by the Commission. At the same time, it was a denunciation of the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  and his predecessor, the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  as well as of the  speaker  himself, because like them, he too has offended all the common decencies of political behaviour in relation to the Com mission. In the very same speech to which I have just referred the Minister tried to outrank the Prime Minister in his efforts to coerce the Commission into an acceptance of the Government's economic policies. He said: 
There cannot be any substitute for the Commission accepting responsibility for the economic consequences of its decisions. 
I dare say that will be his argument today. When I condemn the Minister for that statement I am, oddly enough, still in his own company, because without leaving his CEDA speech, I find him saying: 
. the ultimate responsibility for economic policy must rest with the Government and the Government alone. 
With that portion of the Minister's speech the Opposition finds itself in complete accord. Yet, today he will no doubt argue that it is the responsibility of the Commission. However, for a prime example of double-talk, the Minister's CEDA speech must surely take the prize. That speech contained at least 3 conflicting propositions. However, it took the Minister only 10 days to ignore that proposition in which he condemned people who sought lo influence the Commission with unexaminable public statements because in an afterluncheon speech in Sydney on 18th of this month the Minister again followed the Prime Minister's poor example by publicly informing the Commission that when it deals with national wage cases it should consider only movements in productivity, lie went on to produce some rather dubious statistics to support his case. For example, he said that over the past 5 years average money earnings had increased by about 6.5 per cent a year, that prices had increased by only 3 per cent a year and that national productivity had increased by a mere 2.5 per cent a year. And then, in what cannot be regarded as anything but a veiled threat to the Commission, he warned that if this continued, it would be quite unacceptable to the Government. The Minister said: 
The solution must be found in rational wage policies and I. believe the Commission cannot disregard the economic consequences of its decisions. 
If the Minister wants to quote figures designed to have a bearing on this year's national wage case, why does he not observe his own strictures against backroom economists by making his statements inside the Commission so that the  President  of the ACTU,  Mr Bob  Hawke, can crossexamine him?  Mr Hawke  would probably want the Minister to reconcile the 1968 statement of the then Treasurer, that the gross national product in 1967 had increased by 5.7 per cent, with his own estimates of only 2.5 per cent.  Mr Hawke  would be interested to hear the Minister disprove the 8 per cent increase in non-farm productivity which has been forecast for 1969-70 by the Institute of Applied Economics and Social Research. And, since the Minister confesses to the fact that his Government has not yet bothered to set up machinery for measuring and recording movements in productivity,  Mr Hawke  might also like the Minister to explain how the Commission could, in fact, establish an accurate wageproductivity relationship without the benefit of reliable productivity statistics. 

 Mr Hawke may, perhaps, be interested to test the Minister's assertion that money earnings have increased by  6i  per cent a year against Kenneth Davidson's assessment that real wages in 1965 increased by only 1.6 per cent, by 2.3 per cent the following year, and by a mere 0.8 per cent in 1966-67. The Minister would, I believe, become a rather embarrassed witness trying to prove that prices have risen by only ?&lt; per cent a year. Surely no-one will doubt that the Minister's recital of those controversial figures was deliberately designed to prejudice the ACTU's national wage case. How can anyone blame  Mr Hawke  for complaining that 'this is yet another example of the contempt which the Government has for the Arbitration Commission'? Is it any wonder that the reputation of the Commission is falling with each case it handles. 
There has never been a more blatant breach of the law than these attempts by the Prime Minister and his Ministers improperly to influence the outcome of a case that will affect the wellbeing of some 4 million wage and salary earners. The constitutional function and authority of the Commission flows directly from section 51 of the Constitution. Under that section the Commission is obliged to confine itself to conciliation and arbitration for the settlement of industrial disputes. That must always be the primary aim of the Commission. It is for the Government to take such political steps as are necessary to adjust its economic policies to harmonise with the wage policies deemed to be desirable for the wellbeing of the Australian people by the Commission. The Government has the right, if not the duty, to make considered submissions to the Commission during the hearing of national cases; but it should be done in a way that permits a public testing of the validity of its evidence, argument and submissions. 
In the 1960 hearing, counsel appearing for the Commonwealth categorically argued that no wage increase should be granted; and many commentators believe that it was those submissions which led to the near defeat of the Government in the 1961 elections. Since then, the Government has refrained from making positive submissions about wage increases. In 1966, for example,  Mr John  Kerr, Q.C., as he then was, told the Commission that the Government favoured a 'moderate increase', argued against a 'large increase', but declined to say what was meant by a moderate wage increase'.  Mr Justice  Wright described the Commonwealth's case as 'meaningless'. 
The Government now expects the Commission to take into account all aspects of current government economic policy and to fix wages in a way that will minimise the need for politically unacceptable adjustments to the Government's irresponsible attitude to social and economic problems. I have already accused Ministers of the Crown of having acted in breach of the law, as well as in breach of political refinement. Let me now deal with the first of these charges. Although the Commission is not a court, it is nonetheless protected from those who seek improperly to influence its decisions. Section 182 of the Act provides for a penalty of $200, or imprisonment for 12 months, or both, for any person, who by writing or making a speech uses words calculated to influence improperly a member of the Commission or to bring the Commission into disrepute. 
No one can deny that the Minister and his Prime Minister have used words calculated to influence improperly the members of the Commission, and no one can deny that these Ministers have brought the Commission into disrepute. On the occasion that certain building employees sent telegrams seeking to influence the  deputy  Public Service Arbitrator last 
October, the Arbitrator warned that anybody who tried to influence him improperly could be fined $200, or imprisoned for 12 months, or both. The Arbitra or continued: 
It is quite improper for a group of employees to approach the tribunal because it leaves open the suggestion that pressure is being exerted on me. 
It is equally improper for a Minister to do so. is it any wonder, therefore, that the  President  of the ACTU should contrast the Prime Minister's law and order campaign with his own breach of the law in attempting to influence the Commission by such improper conduct. Even the Melbourne Age' has condemned the Prime Minister and his Ministers for their interference with the Commission. In its editorial of 22nd September 1970, the 'Age' had this to say: 
The Commission's standing in the eyes of combatants and the community is likely to suffer  if  Mr Gorton  and his Ministers use outside forums to make speeches which might be interpreted as attempts to influence deliberations. 
Referring to the Prime Minister's afterdinner lecture to the  President  of the Commission on the oil industry case, the editorial in the 'Australian' of 7th August 1970 said this: 
In the circumstances,  it  was an incredibly inappropriate piece of rhetoric which can only damage the arbitration system no matter what  it  decides next week. If the decision favours the status quo it will inevitably encourage a suspicion that the Commission bowed to political direction. 
Well, the Commission did favour the status quo established in the 1966 General Motors case, that profitability of an industry was not a ground for higher wages. And it is inevitable that there will be widely held suspicions that the Commission was, in fact, influenced by what Ministers of the Crown had said outside the Commission. The same thing happened in the equal pay case. It happened again in the annual leave case, and most people now believe it will happen in tomorrow's national wage case. The Government constantly talks about law and order and about public interest. Its Ministers treat the first with utter contempt when it suits them and they refuse to define, much less show any regard for, the second. Bob Hawke correctly summed up the Government's scant regard for the public interest when he told the Industrial Relations Society that the Government was adopting a brothel-type approach* to the public interest on arbitration, lt embraces the public interest', declared  Mr Hawke,  but has no lasting affection for it'. 
In conclusion, I want to say this: Unless the Commission is permitted to fulfil the role given to it by the Constitution, with an apparent as well as actual, impartiality, 1 am afraid it is destined to just melt away, to be remembered by historians as a dream that might have become a reality but for a Prime Minister's prostitution of his political power. 
I will not detain the Committee for long. Nobody seems yet to have talked to any great extent about the Public Service Board and about the role which it plays within the structure of the Commonwealth Public Service. As the Labor Party spokesman on this aspect of Government, 1 want to say a few things off the cuff about the Public Service Board. In theory the Public Service Board is an independent authority which is the primary source of fixing rates of pay and conditions of employment for the Commonwealth Public Service. I said that in theory it is an independent body. In practice it is, of course, nothing more than the echo of the government of the day. The  Chairman  of the Public Service Board is appointed for a period of, I think, 7 years. 1 think it is 7 years or 5 years. It can be less. There fore, he is very susceptible to pressures from a government, particularly when the pressures come from a government which is very much a one-man government. I do not criticise the present Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  for the fact that he, like his predecessors, has carried on a kind of oneman government. While the Liberal Party has a system of Cabinet Ministers being selected by the Prime Minister, all members of that Party will have to bend the knee to the Prime Minister, whoever he may be - whether it be Andrew Jones, John Gorton or Andrew Peacock. All other Ministers and hopefuls have to kowtow to the Prime Minister to maintain a position or to obtain a position. 
There is not any doubt that the Public Service Board is being pressurised by the Prime Minister's Department and, I very much suspect, in some cases by the Prime 
Minister personally on things such as 4 weeks annual leave and equal pay, to quote but 2 examples. The Prime Minister has given the game away on at least one occasion when he drew attention to the fact that the Commonwealth Government, as the controlling authority of the Public Service, must always consider itself to be an employer of labour - indeed the biggest employer of labour - and that whenever it fixes rates of pay and conditions of employment for its employees it must have regard to the indirect, and in fact in many instances the direct, effect which its decisions will have upon other employers. 
At no stage have the Prime Minister and the Treasurer  (Mr Bury),  when they have spoken on this aspect of government, given the slightest glimmering of concern for the employees. The Prime Minister has not at any stage said that as the leader of the Government of the country it is his duty to pay full regard to the public interest. It is in the public interest to see that Australian employees, of whom there are 4 million, are entitled to consideration. The Prime Minister's failure to do this indicates a misconception on the part of the Prime Minister of his duty as leader of this country. 
In the case of the 4 weeks annual leave the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  has made certain statements. I want to dwell on him for a moment, although we are not discussing his Department. I will show shortly how he comes into this matter in a very real way. The Minister for Labour and National Service gave in this place a figure for the amount it would cost the Austraiian employers to introduce 4 weeks annual leave. First of all, he does not know how many people are now getting 4 weeks annual leave as a minimum. Therefore, if he does not know that - I know that he does not know it because I have been waiting for weeks to get a reply from him to a question on this very subject - how on earth can he give an assessment of what the introduction of 4 weeks annual leave generally will cost? 
A lot of people are getting 4 weeks annual leave already. Therefore one would have to know the number who are getting 4 weeks annual leave already before one could say what would be the additional cost to employers if 4 weeks annual leave generally were introduced. It would seem therefore that the Minister for Labour and National Service assumes that no-one is getting 4 weeks annual leave and that you simply multiply the cost of a week's wages by the 4 million people now employed to arrive at the additional cost. This reasoning assumes that an employer would have to employ additional men in exact proportion to the extra leave granted, whereas in point of fact everyone who understands administration theory knows that this is not correct. 
If an employer of 40 people decides to give those employees an extra week's leave, he does not have to employ an additional person to make up for it. It does not work out that way, but that is the way that the Minister's argument runs. Therefore he brings his pressure to bear upon the Public Service Board to see that it does not increase the annual leave now granted to the Commonwealth Public Service. The New South Wales Government is already giving 4 weeks annual leave to its employees. The South Australian Labor Government has given it to its employees. The Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority has now given 4 weeks annual leave to its employees. 
I now come to another point of major complaint. The Australian National Line agreed with the waterside workers not so long ago to introduce a 35-hour week for employees of the Australian National Line as part of an industrial settlement. But 3 terminal ports are now idle because of a dispute over the matter. When an agreement was entered into between the combatants in the dispute to settle it, the Minister for Labour and National Service went to the Cabinet and prevailed upon it to direct the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  to veto the agreement entered into between the 2 parties. In my view this kind of interference by Ministers in the administration of Government instrumentalities - in particular, the Commonwealth Public Service Board - is something which is pretty reprehensible. 
The professional engineers case was a prime example of the stubbornness of the Prime Minister and his blindness to facts, reason and the need for fair play. It is no use the Prime Minister denying - and I do not believe him if he does deny it - that he used his influence upon the Public Service Board to prevent the professional engineers from retaining the position they secured in the general wage structure of Australia as a result of the 1961 engineers case. The Commonwealth Government refuses to depart from the decisions of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and the Public Service Arbitrator and is trying to imply that there are no such things as over award payments. It forgets that what governs wages today is not the nominal amounts which are fixed by the respective tribunals but the market value of wages paid over and above the minimum fixed by the tribunals, as determined by the law of supply in a situation in which there is, relatively speaking, a shortage of labour. 
I am obliged to the honourable member for Hawker. The Industrial Commission of Western Australia has awarded an increase of more than $6 a week in wages as the basic minimum and it has determined that people who are not already getting over award payments are entitled to a 10 per cent increase. 
I believe that something ought to be done in the way of a public inquiry - a royal commission, if you like - into the Commonwealth Public Service of the same nature as occurred in 1919, as occurrred in Britain only a couple of years ago, and as took place in New Zealand during the last 3 or 4 years. I believe that such an inquiry would bring to light some pretty staggering facts about the way the Commonwealth Public Service is being administered. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked  the Prime  Minister, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the report of the Preparatory Committee on Collective Bargaining in the Canadian Public Service in 1963 which stated that an organisation whose system of salary administration cannot or does not respond to the requirements of the market in a period of economic change and development which causes movements in level of rates and in the rate relationships between jobs, is not well equipped to recruit and retain 'quality' personnel, particularly in the high-skill occupations. 
If so, win he ask the Public Service Board to take heed of the Canadian Committee's report by reviewing its decision to downgrade the salary status of professional engineers. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Does the Public Service Board still adhere to the old concept of a monolithic pay structure or the Commonwealth Service in which considerable emphasis is placed on (he maintenance of pay relativities. 
If not, what are the difficulties in conceding to professional engineers employed by the Commonwealth a salary range that will correspond with the importance and upgrading of their profession as a consequence of technological advance and the new and more exacting demands now made upon qualified engineers. 
In fixing the current salary range for professional engineers, did the Public Service Board give full regard to market comparisons with salaries paid to professional engineers by other employers. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
Have any of the Judges of the Commonwealth Industrial Court ever been consulted by the reporters who write the headnotes of Industrial Court judgments appearing in the Federal Law Reports. 
I address a  question to the Minister for Labour and 
National Service.  Mr Whitlam  - Put it on notice. 
If I do I will have to wait too long for an answer, ls it a fact that the Waterside Workers Federation has served notice on the stevedoring companies concerned that if the Government is not prepared to allow the respective stevedoring companies to honour the agreement for a 35-hour week recently reached between the Federation and the Australian National Line all special working agreements for ANL terminals will be cancelled as from 22nd November 1970? Is it a fact that if the agreement is not ratified the ANL terminals will have to be worked under the hours, terms and conditions generally applicable in the port - that is, under the awards? Is it a further fact that an ANL official has been reported as having stated that if the special working agreements are cancelled and the terminals are worked under the awards the additional cost to the Line could be a conservative Sim annually; and, in any case, would such an estimate be a reasonable assessment of the extra cost? Finally, if these are facts, how does the Minister justify the Government's action in refusing to allow the respective stevedoring companies to sign the agreement reached between the Australian National Line and the Waterside Workers Federation? 
-I object strongly to the Parliament being required to deal- 
Motion (by  Mr Snedden)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Did the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations on 16th September 1970 write to him complaining about the Government's delay in re-introducing a Bill for a new Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Act. 
If so, had he, at 2nd October 1970 failed to reply to the complaint made by this body. 
If so, what were the reasons for (a) failing promptly to reply to the letter and (b) delaying the re-introduction of the Bill. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: (lj In view of his reply to my question 1018 (Hansard 12th June 1970, page 3683) can he say why there have been no cases in the last 10 years in which costs in respect of appeals under the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Act have been taxed by the Registrar of a Supreme Court. 
Have the costs in respect of these proceedings ever been taxed by the Registrar of any other Court during the past 10 years. 
asked the Prime 
Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Government ever consulted the Public Service Board concerning changes in the salary or any other conditions of employment applicable to the Public Service Arbitrator or his deputies. 
asked the Minister for 
Labour and National  Service, upon  notice: Will he supply, if possible, up-to-date statistics on the number of strikes and the consequent number of working days lost in 1970 to date (a) in particular industries, (b) in each State and (c) throughout the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Does the Conciliation and Arbitration Act make it unlawful for an employer to terminate the services of an employee while the employee is absent on (a) workers' compensation, (b) accrued sick leave which is supported by medical certificate, (c) annual leave due to him under the terms of an award or (d) long service leave due to him under the terms of an award or Act of Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What are the cases that have been determined by the Commonwealth Industrial Court in proceedings instituted under (a) section 140 and (b) section 141 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act since 1957. 
What was the amount of taxed costs ordered against each (a) unsuccessful claimant, (b) partially successful claimant and (c) successful claimant in each case. 
What was the amount of taxed costs ordered against each (a) successful respondent (b) partially successful respondent and (c) successful respondent in each such case. 
In what cases did the Court make no order for costs when the Show Cause Rule was (a) discharged and (b) made absolute. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Did he recently say that a study of 6.00 hearings before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission had revealed that approximately one in fourteen cases had come up for hearing immediately. 
If so, will he state the name of the applicant in each case and the nature of the matter which was determined. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
On how many occasions have parties to a dispute agreed to a Conciliator acting as an arbitrator with powers to make a binding decision in accordance with section 30 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
asked the Minister for Labour  and  National Service, upon notice: 
In view of his answer to question No. 847 (Hansard, 2nd June 1970. page G786) can he give the dates on which the Conciliation and Arbitration Aci has been amended as a consequence of his Department's examination of judicial decisions including those of the Commonwealth Industrial Court since 1958. 
On how many occasions since 1958 has the Conciliation and Arbitration Act been amended. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Will he give the Committee on Women's Employment an opportunity to consider the Commonwealth's 9-point formula relating to the question of equal pay. 
If so, does the Commonwealth intend to adhere to its support for the formula. 
Are some of the points contained in the formula not applied by the Commonwealth Arbitration Commission when fixing minimum rates of pay for adult mates; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister  for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Has he considered the views expressed in the 1969 Annual Report by the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission when the  President  reported that it would be an advantage if the Conciliation and Arbitration Act were amended to remove the requirement that the Commissioner concerned must almost automatically be the one to sit with judges on a reference bench. 
If so, does he propose to lake action to give effect to the President's recommendation. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that International Labour Organisation Convention No. 104 prohibits penal sanctions for breaches of contract of employment by indigenous workers. (2)Is it a fact that the Commonwealth Arbitration Commission has incorporated in the Pastoral Award  a  provision which authorises an employer to confiscate one week's wages of a shearing employee who breaches his contract of employment. 
Which of the member States have ratified Convention No. 104. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What assistance does the Commonwealth give to the Productivity Promotion Council of Australia. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has his Department ever exercised its prerogative in the provision of funds by rejecting a Public Service Board proposal to introduce new pay rates. 
If so, what are the particulars of each such exercise of Treasury prerogative. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Did his Department make any direct or indirect submissions to the Public Service Board, the Public Service Arbitrator, or to any Commonwealth department concerning the salaries of professional engineers either prior to, or following, the Board's decision regarding these salaries. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What hearings are at present being conducted before the Public Service Arbitrator and his deputies. 
Who are the parties to each claim. 
How many positions are the subject of each claim. 
How many claims are pending under the Public Service Arbitration Act in respect of which memorials have been filed but no determination issued. 
asked the Minister  for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether member countries of the European Economic Community are bound by the Treaty of Rome to observe equal pay for the same work. 
If so, does this mean that signatory countries are to remove wage discrimination against female employees. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
How many applications are outstanding for new telephone services in (a) Sydney, (b) Melbourne, (c) Brisbane, (d) Adelaide and (e) Perth. 
ls it a fact that potential subscribers who have actually paid deposits for a new telephone service are having their money refunded to them in a number of capital cities because of the Department's inability to provide a new service for them. 
Will be use bis good offices to ensure that the engineers' claims for higher salaries, which are clearly responsible for the mounted backlog of applications for telephone services, is resolved and, in particular, will he impress upon the Public Service Board and the Prime Minister the need for a speedy solution of the dispute. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that a Service Standards and Customer Relations Section has been set up by the Post Office in each State of tte Commonwealth. 
Is it part of the functions of this section to tape telephone conversations from main trunk exchanges. 
If so, for what period of each day are these functions carried out. 
How many officers are engaged in this function in each State. 
Are recorded telephone conversations played back and analysed. 
For what length of time are tapes of such conversations held by his Department after recording. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of South Australia respectfully showeth. 
That due to the higher living cost, persons on Social Service Pensions are finding it extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. 
We therefore call upon the Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rate to 30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings for all Stales, as ascertained by the Commonwealth Statistician, plus supplementary assistance and allowances in accordance with A.C.T.U. policy and adopted as the policy of the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners' Federation, and by doing so give a reasonably moderate pension. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in our Petition; so that our citizens receiving the Social Service Pensions may live their lives in dignity. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Did he recently suggest that Australian creativity, through more and deeper research, development and design, would reduce costs. 
If so, how many examples can he give in which (he abovementioned factors have actually resulted in price reductions for Australian produced goods. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Why was the widow of a New Guinean worker (a) offered and (b) permitted to accept an amount of compensation that was less than the prescribed amount, as stated in his answer to question No. 1279 (Hansard, 19th August 1970, page 212). 
Did the Administration offer to provide legal representation to this widow in order that she could test her legal entitlement to a higher amount. 
What was the amount of compensation paid to the widow. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Do any awards or industrial agreements in the Commonwealth provide for (a) double lime for day-workers after two hours overtime, (b) normal overtime rates for unrelieved shift-workers, (c) double time for shift-workers when Sundays and/or public holidays fall on an ordinary rostered shift, (d) meal allowances to all employees required to work overtime or (e) payment for public holidays which fall on a shift-workers' rostered day off. 
If so, which awards or industrial agreements make provision for any one of the conditions listed above. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National- Service, upon notice: 
In what way or for what reason were 3 of the 4 agreements, which the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has refused, to certify under section 31 of the Act. not . in , the public interest. (Question No. 521, Hansard,. 2nd. June 1970). 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Does his reply to question No. 1010 (Hansard, 3rd June 1970, page 2874) indicate that the. 
Government did not make any submissions to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission concerning the principles to be followed by the Commission in determining whether equal pay is appropriate? (21 If not, what were the submissions made to the Commission on behalf of the Commonwealth? 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
On how many occasions has  a  Commissioner or the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission dealt with  a  demarcation dispute in which the members  of  one union were covered by a Federal Award and the other members to the dispute belonged to a State union and were covered by a State Award. 
On how many of these occasions has the Commonwealth Conciliation Commissioner made an order in respect of such a dispute. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What are the. names of those members of trade unions who since 1st January 1967, were granted financial assistance under regulation 138 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Regulations. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice:  - 
What is the period of (a) annual and (b) sick leave allowed to (i) Presidential members of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, (ii) the Commonwealth Public Service Arbitrator and his deputy and (iii) Commonwealth Conciliation Commissioners. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Has. his attention been drawn to a decision of the last National Conference of the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations that salary rates should (a) move in accordance with the changes in prices, (b.) contain a fair share of the increase in national productivity, (c) provide appropriate recompense for the proper and just evaluation of skill and responsibility involved in the particular tasks performed, (d) provide for equal pay. (et accord with the improving standards in the level of community skills arising through technological innovation, (f) be accorded proper comparability with standards of remuneration paid both within and outside the salaried area, (g) take account of and adequately provide for the needs and entitlements of salaried workers living in a modern society, and (h) reflect the standard of over-award payments existing in the community. 
If so. does the Government disagree with any one of the principles set out in the decision. 
If some of the principles are disagreed wilh which are they. 
Will he instruct counsel .representing the Commonwealth before any tribunal dealing with these matters to support the principles contained in the decision with which the Government is in agreement. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What was the total annual amount of (a) premiums and (b) claims in respect of workmen's compensation insurance in each State and Territory since 1950. 
What percentage of premiums paid for workmen's compensation insurance was paid out in claims each year in each State and Territory since 1950. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many persons were employed in the Commonwealth Public Service in each vear since 1950. 
What has been the percentage increase in each Commonwealth department since 1950. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Did he say that under the present arbitration system control of the inflationary threat is not now entirely in the hands of the Government? Does this situation represent any change in respect of the Government's previous powers over economic questions? If so, in what way has the present arbitration system altered the Government's powers? ls the Government considering any change to the present arbitration system or to its constitutional powers to deal with inflationary trends? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
ls he able to say whether the New South Wales State Government and some private employers make up the pay of their employees who are called up for national service. 
ls it a fact that in some cases the amount of pay lost by a national serviceman during his period , of service represents a considerable financial sacrifice. 
ls it inequitable that some national servicemen should suffer such a loss while others have their loss made up by their employers. 
If so. will the Commonwealth follow, the example of the New South Wales Government and of those private employers who make up the pay of national servicemen by paying to Commonwealth employees who are called up for national service an amount equivalent to the difference between their national service pay and the amount which they would have received but for their call up. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Does the recently amended Conciliation and Arbitration Act make it unlawful for the Commonweatlh Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to award wage rates that are (a) so high as to be uneconomic to an employer or (b) so low as to be uneconomic to an employee. 
If not, does a presidential member of the Commission have the power (a) to enforce employer acceptance of such rates by the insertion of a clause to ban the reduction or retrenchment of staff, or the closure of a work place or section thereof or (b) lo enforce employee acceptance of such rates by the insertion of a strike-ban clause in the award. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National 'Service, upon notice: ' 
ls there any power under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to force an employer to continue the employment of the (abour at wage rates which the employer deems to be uneconomic. 
If so. what section of the Act contains such a provision, and, on how many occasions since Federation has an employer been prosecuted and penalised for refusing to employ labour at allegedly uneconomic rales fixed by the Arbitration Commission. . , 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is there any power under the' Conciliation and Arbitration Act to prevent an employer from reducing staff, or from closing a factory, or from closing portion of an undertaking, in cases where 
In the opinion of an employer, minimum award rales fixed by the Arbitration Commission could result in loss or insufficient profit. 
asked  the  Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Does the Conciliation and Arbitration Act authorise the Governor-General to make regulations providing for the exhibiting, on the employer's premises, of a copy of any order or award binding on the employer concerned. 
Do all awards and orders of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission contain a provision for the posting of copies of such awards or orders on the premises of an employer bound by such awards and orders. 
If there are no regulations requiring the exhibiting of  awards  and all awards of the Commission tlo not call for such exhibiting of awards what steps does he propose to take to ensure that this important requirement is carried out in future. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Are any formal or informal records kept at the industrial registries of each application for a rule nisi under sections 140 and 141 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
If not, why not. 
If so, what is the difficulty in supplying the information sought in question No. 848 (Hansard, 22nd September 1970, page 1490). 
asked  the  Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
In view of his answer to question No. 1218 (Hansard, 2nd September 1970. page 906) that 40 per cent of Australian employees are working under Commonwealth awards and that only fiftytwo Commonwealth arbitration inspectors are employed compared with 239 State inspectors who are authorised to inspect under Federal awards in New South Wales. Western Australia and Tasmania alone, wilt he state what financial reimbursement is made to the States in respect of State inspectors carrying out inspection of Federal awards. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Does any provision of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act make it possible to require an employer to employ labour at wage rates fixed by the Arbitration Commission in cases where an employer regards these rates as uneconomic. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
What arrangements did the Commonwealth make with (be Government of New South Wales which led to New South Wales Magistrate Rogers being now engaged solely, or almost solely, in dealing with offences against Commonwealth law. 
Is it a fact &lt;hat this magistrate is an ordinary magistrate appointed by the Government of New South Wales. 
What reimbursement does the Commonwealth make to the Government of New South Wales to compensate the State for the time spent by  Mr Rogers  in hearing cases affecting Commonwealth laws. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did he slate at the 1970 Annual Conference of the New South Wales Division of the Liberal Party that the 1970 Budget would be one of the great Budgets of Australia provided that thai which the Government had done to contain inflation was noi damaged by organisations the Government did not control increasing wages throughout Australia without regard to the productivity increase which alone can thoroughly justify an increase in wages and make an increase in wages really valid and really essential. 
If so, is the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission one of the organisations which he had in mind when he made the statement. 
ls it contrary to the best interests of Australia for the Commission to grant wage increases that are related to increased prices but unrelated to productivity. 
What has the Government done to measure and' record productivity trends in Australia. 
asked  the  Prime 
Minister, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the statement made on 1st October 1970 by the Minister for Labour and National Service that- the Government had made no provision -.for. *a. contemporaneous measurement of productivity in Australia and that it is impossible to devise one. 
Did be, at the 1970 New South Wales Liberal Party Conference say that wage increases cannot be thoroughly justified as really valid and essential without paying regard to productivity increase. 
If there are no measurements available of productivity in Australia, how is it. possible for the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to comply with his dictum. ..... 
asked the Prime Minister,  upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the picture published  on  page 189 of the July 1970 issue of the 'Seamen's Journal'. 
.If so, is the person appearing in the picture employed by (a) the Commonwealth Police, (b) the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, (c) the Australian News and Information Bureau or (d) any other Commonwealth department or agency. 
If the person is so employed, has that person ever been employed to (a) photograph unionists attending or voting at, union meetings or (b) take the car registration numbers of motor cars parked in the vicinity of union meetings or protest rallies. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice:  (!) Has the industrial agreement known as the Melbourne Building Industry Agreement as varied from time to time operated in Victoria since 1956. 
ls it a fact thai Commissioner Chambers, as lie then was in 1956 refused to register the agreement because it contained provision for overaward payments and that, as a consequence, the agreement as varied, has remained unregistered and probably unenforceable ever since that date. 
asked th;. Minister for' Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What was the backlog in publishing the Industrial Information Bulletin on 21st May 1970 when, in reply to question No. 810 (Hansard pages 2619-20) he stated that action had been taken to reduce (he delays that can occur al each stage of preparation and printing. 
What was the backlog on 12th October 1970. 
On what dales were the (a) January 1970, (b) February 1970, (c) March 1970 and (d) April 1970 issues of the publication (i) prepared, (ii) printed and (iii) posted out to recipients. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
ls there any advantage in the Commonwealth and the States conforming to a uniform pattern for recording the (a) period of incapacity, (b) cost of claims, (c) incidence of injuries, (d) location of injuries, (e) cause of injuries, (f) hour and day of injuries and (g) working hours prior to injuries duc lo industrial accident or disease, as an essential first step towards prevention of industrial injury. 
Are these statistics available m respect of (a) Commonwealth employees and (b) other employees in Territories of the Commonwealth. 
What action has he taken to secure a uniform pattern for recording statistics concerning industrial injuries. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn io the reference in the Tariff Board's annual' report wherein attention is drawn to the large gap between wage increases and productivity gains in most countries wilh the exception of Japan and Germany and the view is expressed that me latter countries' success in closing this gap will be an important determinant of the competitive position of each country in world trade in manufactures. 
Has his attention also been directed to the statement of the Board that the main countries supplying Australia's imports experienced larger increases in wages than that which has occurred in Australia during the past 2 years. (.lj Does his attitude coincide with the view expressed in the report and the conclusion reached by the Board in relation to wage and productivity trends in Australia vis-a-vis those operating in Japan and Germany. 
Is there any advantage in closing the gap between wage and productivity trends in Australia. 
If so, how can the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission close the gap without having statistics that accurately measure and record productivity trends in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Did the Full Bench of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission recently refuse to award a 40-hour week to station hands employed under the Pastoral Award on the ground, inter alia, that there was no evidence of any serious unrest among station hands. 
Did  Mr Justice  Gallagher recently grant a 35-hour week to coal miners on the ground, inter alia, that failure to accede to the union's demand would lead to industrial unrest. 
If so, should evidence or lack of evidence of industrial unrest be taken into account when the Commission is determining union claims for improved wages and conditions of employment. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Does the International Labour Organisation's Convention No. 47 provide that a country ratifying that Convention shall declare its approval of the principle of the 40-hour week. 
If so, does the Commonwealth approve of that principle. 
Does the Commonwealth propose te ratify this Convention. 
If so, will the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission be asked to reconsider its recent rejection df the 40-hour week for station hands employed under the Federal Pastoral Award. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: ls he able to stale what has been the average weekly overtime worked by each Australian employee, who works overtime, in each industry group in each of the last 3 years. 
asked Hie Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: ls he able to state how many employees not engaged in continuous shift work in Australia receive at least 4 weeks annual leave. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Does the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission still adhere to the doctrine of comparable wage justice when determining wage claims. 
If not, what is the doctrine which currently guides the Commission in wage fixation. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
What was the total annual cost to the Australian taxpayer of maintaining (a) the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, (b) the Commonwealth Industrial Court and (c) all facilities and services associated with (i) the Commission and (ii) the Court in each year since 1957. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Does he know the annual percentage increases in (a) non-farm productivity at constant prices, (b) number of non-farm employees, and (c) real product per non-farm employee. 
If so, what were they in each ot the years 1958-59 to 1968-69. 
ls he able to make a forecast of these particulars for each of the years 1969-70 and 1970- 71. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Did he tell a Committee for Economic Development of Australia audience on 8th October 1970 that if would not be relevant for the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to award wage . increases in a particular industry on the basis of trends in productivity or profitability in that industry. 
Is it a fact that at. that time the Commission had not given its decision on the Australian Council of Trade Unions' oil industry case in which a claim for increased wages was based upon profitability. 
Will he now give an assurance that he will not in future make public statements on issues that are before the Commission or awaiting decisio. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How many different definitions has the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission given to the term public interest on the various occasions when such term was at issue. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
ls it. a fact that the Australian National Line had negotiated an industrial agreement with the Waterside Workers Federation concerning work at roll-on, roll-off shipping terminals in which the parties had agreed to what virtually amounted to a 35-hour week. 
ls it a fact that, as a consequence of his intervention, the Government has taken action to prevent the agreement from being signed or ratified. 
Is it also a fact thai 3 of the loll-on, rolloff terminals built by the ANL are idle because of industrial disputes and that the  Government's interference in the affairs  of  the ANL  is  causing deep concern to senior officials of the ANL. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National ' Service, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to an advertisement appearing in the Geelong Advertiser .of 3rd October 1970 under the name of NSK Manu facturing (Australia) Pty Ltd calling for applications to be forwarded to the Commonwealth Employment Office in Geelong for certain classes of tradesmen stipulating maximum age limits ranging from 30 years in the case of electricians to. SO years of age in the case of process workers. 
Does the Government approve of the action of this employer in using a Government agency to recruit labour with such severe age limits. 
Did the Commonwealth Employment Office pay for the cost of the advertisement.. 
asked the Minister for Labour ' and National Service, upon notice: 
Is there a constitutional requirement which specifies that a Presidential member of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission shall be a life appointed Judge. 
If not, and in view of his public statement that the Commission must take responsibility for the economic consequences of its decisions, and" that wage increases should not exceed increased productivity, will he state why he has opposed the proposition to take the steps necessary to appoint an economist as a Presidential member of the Commission. 
In view of the Prime Ministers reply to question No. 1532 (Hansard, 13th October 1970, page 2065), justifying the fixed-term appointment of Commonwealth statutory officers such as the Public Service Arbitrator, the Commissioner and Second Commissioner of Taxation and the Chair-' man of the Tariff Board, will he state why (a) Presidential members of the Commission must be appointed for life and (b) Commissioners and Conciliators must be appointed until they reach 65 years of age. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has frequently fixed wage rales that were below the (a) market rate or (b) premium rate. 
If so, what reasons can be advanced for the use of the penal provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to prevent the sellers of labour from resorting to strike action as a means of securing market or premium rales for their labour. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What are the names of the 19 unsuccessful applicants for financial assistance under Conciliation and Arbitration Regulation 138 referred to in his reply to question No. 849 (Hansard, 30th September 1970, page 1966). 
Which of these applicants had been granted a rule nisi by a Judge of the Commonwealth Industrial Court for the action at the date of his application for financial assistance. 
What were the Registrar's reasons for refusing each of the 19 unsuccessful application;. 
asked  the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Which Government was responsible for making Regulation 138 of the Conciliation  and  Arbitration Regulations, under which the Registrar is authorised to grant financial assistance to a member of  a  registered organisation desiring to lest the validity of a rule of an organisation or to enforce performance and observance of a rule of an organisation. 
On how many occasions have applications been made for such assistance. 
On how many occasions have such applications been  (a)  approved and (b) rejected. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What are the names of those persons who have received financial assistance in excess of the minimum prescribed by Conciliation and Arbitration Regulation 138. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Was the policy of the Public Service Board as expressed by its submissions to the Arbitration Commission on the question of equal pay dictated by a policy decision taken by his Department. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What is the name of each employer who has been prosecuted and found guilty of a lock-out since the inception of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in 1904. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that no Judge has ever found an employer guilty of a lock-out under the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act since its passage in 1904. 
If not, what are the names of the employers found guilty of such an offence, and what penalty did the Court impose in each such case. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that there is a backlog of claims in the Australian Capital Territory awaiting determination by a Conciliation Commissioner. 
If so, what is the reason for not having a resident Conciliation Commissioner stationed in the Territory. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Under what section of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act is the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission authorised to make a common rule declaration binding on all (a) employees and (b) employers. 
Does such a common rule apply to (a) employees who are not members of the applicant or respondent union and (b) employers who are not otherwise bound by a particular award. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the Commonwealth Industrial Court's finding that the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and regulations permit the division of a registered union into a caste system that can limit office-holding privilege to a relatively small percentage of the union's total membership. 
If so, is it his intention to retain a law that disqualifies a large percentage of union members from nominating for office in a particular union. 
asked the Minister  for  Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Did the  President  of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in his 1969 Annual Report pay tribute to the manner in which the boards  of  reference have succeeded in the conciliating of disputes. 
Is it a fact that instances have occurred when employers have refused to accept the decision of a  board  thus preventing the board from functioning in  the  particular dispute. 
If so, does he favour an amendment of the Act giving boards of reference wider powers. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a statement by the Minister for Shipping and Transport, when addressing a Country Party Conference at Griffith, on 26th June 1970, that it was the aim of the Government to preserve the status of the many responsible members of the trade unions. 
If so, what steps have been taken towards this end. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the recent judgment of  Mr Justice  Sheehy of the New South Wales Industrial Commission in which the learned judge criticised the victimisation of employees for reasons associated with their union activities. 
Does he see any merit in the observations made by  Mr Justice  Sheehy. 
If so, willhe direct that copies of the judgment be supplied to all members of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the vast majority of cases taken against employers under section 5 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act for the reinstatement of employees allegedly victimised for union activities have been dismissed. 
If so, will he have these decisions examined with a view to making an appropriate amendment to strengthen that section of the Act in such a way as to ensure that applications for reinstatement cannot be dismissed for what seems to be the specious reasons contained in so many of the past decisions. 
asked the  Minister  for Labour and  National Service,  upon  notice: 
Is it a fact that one effect of the Commonwealth's submissions to the Arbitration Commission on the subject of equal pay has been to produce the result that nursing aides qualify for equal pay because the work is done by both men and women, but that qualified nursing sisters do not qualify for the male wage because their work is regarded as an exclusively female occupation. 
If so, will he withdraw the Commonwealth's opposition to equal pay for work that is essentially or usually performed by females. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice:  (1.) To what extent has the incidence of shift work increased since 1950. 
In which cases has (a) the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and (b) the Commonwealth Public Service Arbitrator varied an award or determination to permit shift work in an industry or in callings in respect of which shift work was not previously authorised by an award or determination. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What was the cause of each of the various strikes and disputes which occurred in the 6 months ended 30th June 1970. 
asked the Minister  for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether Belgium, Taiwan. The Federal Republic of Germany. Israel, Japan, Malta, The Philippines and the United States of America each has machinery for measuring, recording and publishing productivity movements in respect of gross national or domestic product, at market prices, per person employed. 
Is the Commonwealth able to supply similar statistical information. 
If so, what is it. 
asked the Minister  for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether Austria, Canada, Finland, Ireland, Italy and the United Kingdom each has machinery for measuring, recording and publishing productivity movements in respect of gross national or domestic product, at factor cost, per person employed. 
Is the Commonwealth able to supply similar statistical information. 
If so, what is it. 
asked the Minister  for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether Czechoslovakia has machinery for measuring, recording and publishing productivity movements in respect of net national product, at market prices, per person employed. 
Is the Commonwealth able to supply similar statistical information. 
If so, what is it. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether The Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Norway and the Philippines each has machinery for measuring, recording and publishing productivity movements in respect of net national or domestic product, at factor cost, per person employed. 
Is the Commonwealth able to supply similar statistical information. 
If so, what is it. 
asked the Minister  for Labour and National  Service, upon  notice: 
Is he able to say whether New Zealand has machinery for measuring, recording and publishing productivity movements in respect of volume of net production per person employed. 
Is the Commonwealth able to supply similar statistical information. 
If so, what is it 
asked the Minister  for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether France has machinery for measuring, recording and publishing productivity movements in respect of final gross production, at market prices, per man-hour. 
Is the Commonwealth able to supply similar statistical information. 
If so, what is it. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether Israel and the United States of America each has machinery for measuring, recording and publishing productivity movements in respect of gross national or domestic product, at market prices, per man-hour. 
Is the Commonwealth able to supply similar statistical information. 
If so, what is it. 
asked the Minister  for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether Canada has machinery for measuring, recording and publishing productivity movements in respect of gross national or domestic products, at factor cost, per man-hour. 
Is the Commonwealth able to supply similar statistical information. 
If so, what is it. 
asked the Minister  for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether Italy has machinery for measuring, recording and publishing productivity movements in respect to net national product, at market prices per man-hour. 
Is the Commonwealth able to supply similar statistical information. 
If so, what is it. 
asked the Minister  for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether Austria, The Federal Republic of Germany, Norway, Spain and Sweden each has machinery for measuring, recording and publishing productivity movements in respect of net production per man-hour (wage earners) in the industrial sector. 
Is the Commonwealth able to supply similar statistical information. 
If so, what is it. 
asked  the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether, France and The Federal Republic of Germany, each has machinery for measuring, recording and publishing productivity movements in respect of net production per hour of work of all employed persons in the industrial sector. 
Is the Commonwealth able to supply similar statistical information. 
If so. what is it. 
asked the Minister  for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether Israel and South Korea each has machinery for measuring, recording and publishing productivity movements in respect of net production per man-day (wage earners) in the industrial sector. 
Is the Commonwealth able to supply similar statistical information. 
Ifso, what is it. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether the Federal 
Republic of Germany and Ireland each has machinery for measuring, recording and publishing productivity movements in respect of net production per wage earner in the industrial sector. 
Is the Commonwealth able to supply similar statistical information. 
Ifso, what is it. 
asked the Minister  for  Labour  and National Service, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether Austria, Belgium, Taiwan, Finland, The Federal Republic of Germany, Ghana, Hungary, Israel. Italy, Japan, The Netherlands. Norway, The Philippines, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom and Yugoslavia each has machinery for measuring, recording and publishing productivity movements in respect of net production per person employed or per employee in the industrial sector. 
Is the Commonwealth able to supply similar statistical information. 
If so, what is it. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether Czechoslovakia and The Federal Republic of Germany each has machinery for measuring, recording and publishing productivity movements in respect of gross production per man-hour (wage earners) in the industrial sector. 
Is the Commonwealth able to supply similar statistical information. 
If so, what is it. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether Czechoslovakia has machinery for measuring, recording and publishing productivity movements in respect of gross production per man-day (wage earners) in the industrial sector. 
Is the Commonwealth able to supply similar statistical information. 
If so. what is it. 
asked  the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether Bulgaria, Czecho slovakia, East Germany, Rumania and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics each has machinery for measuring, recording and publishing productivity movements in respect of gross production per wage earner in the industrial sector. 
Is the Commonwealth able to supply similar statistical information. 
If so, what is it. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service,  upon  notice: 
ls he able to say whether Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, East Germany, Ghana, Hungary, Poland, Rumania and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics each has machinery for measuring, recording and publishing productivity movements in respect of gross production per person employed or per person in the industrial sector. 
Is the Commonwealth able to supply similar statistical information. 
If so, what is it. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether Brazil, Cyprus Hungary and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics each has machinery for measuring, recording and publishing productivity movements in respect of gross production per person employed or per employee in factories only. 
Is the Commonwealth able to supply similar statistical information. 
If so, what is it. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Finland, The Federal Republic of Germany, Hungary, Israel, Italy, Japan, The Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Spain, the United 
Kingdom and the United States of America each has machinery for measuring, recording and publishing productivity movements in respect of net production per person employed or per employee in factories only. 
Is the Commonwealth able to supply similar statistical information. . , 
If so, what is it. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether Brazil, the Federal Republic of Germany and Ireland each has machinery for measuring, recording- and publishing productivity movements in respect of net production per wage earner in factories only. 
Is the Commonwealth able to supply similar statistical information. 
If so, what is it 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is he able to state whether Israel and South Korea each has machinery for measuring, recording and publishing productivity movements in respect of net production per man-day (wage earners) in factories only. 
Is the Commonwealth able to supply similar statistical information. 
If so, what is it. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is he able to state whether Belgium, Canada, France, The Federal Republic of Germany and the United States of America each has machinery for measuring, recording and publishing productivity movements in respect of net production per hour of work of all employed persons in factories only. 
Is the Commonwealth able to supply similar statistical information. 
If so, what is it. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: (:l) ls he able to say whether The Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Norway, Spain and the United Kingdom each has machinery for measuring, recording and publishing productivity movements in respect of net production per manhour (wage earners) in factories only. 
ls the Commonwealth able to supply similar statistical information. 
If so, what is it. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
ls he able to say whether the United Kingdom compiles statistics in respect of productivity and in relation to output per person employed in (a) gross domestic product, (b) total industrial production, (c) total manufacturing, (d) mining and (e) construction, as well as output per manhour worked in manufacturing. 
ls the Commonwealth able to supply similar statistical information. 
If so, what is it. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
ls he able to say whether the United States of America compiles statistics in respect of productivity for the private sector of the economy and in relation to (a) output per man-hour,  (b)  output per employed person, (c) total output and (d) man-hours. 
Is the Commonwealth able to supply similar statistical information. 
If so, what is it. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Did he state on 23rd September 1970 that the overall cost of introducing a 35-hour week to all Australian industries would be (a) between $1,400 million and $2,000 million a year if employers were to maintain the volume of production by employing new labour and (b) between $2,100 million and $2,900 million a year if employers were to maintain the volume of production by working overtime. 
If so, will he (a) set out the basis of his calculations, (b) state the reason for the wide disparity between these estimates and (c) stale whether he took fully into account any increased productivity that may result from future technological changes in methods of production. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
In view of his statement to the House on 21st October 1970 (Hansard, page 2540) that his Department has the co-ordinating responsibility for the industrial policy of those departments and instrumentalities which have relativity to outside industrial areas, and that the Public Service Board has the co-ordinating responsibility for other types of departments, will he (a) give the date on which this demarcation of responsibility was adopted by the Menzies Government, (b) state whether his Department endorsed or authorised the action of Commonwealth Hostels Ltd in appealing against the decision of  Mr Commissioner  E. J. Clarkson in awarding equal pay to female employees and to abolish the interstate differences between wage rates for male and female workers, (c) state whether his Department exercised its co-ordinating responsibilities when the Public Service Arbitrator made a consent determination for the Chief Civil Engineer, Chief Mechanical Engineer and Special Service Engineer employed in the Commonwealth Railways awarding salary increases in line with those rejected by the Public Service Board for Professional Engineers, (d) state whether his Department opposed the decision of the Stevedoring Industry Authority to award 4 weeks' annual leave at loaded rates for members of the Waterside Workers' Federation and (e) state whether his Department has ever sought to influence the Public Service Board in the way it carries out its coordinating responsibilities. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that more than 50 per cent of the total man days lost in Australia arise from non-wage disputes. 
In any case, what are the causes of these disputes. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Has the United States ban on the importation of Australian mutton caused a loss lo Australia of millions of dollars of export income. 
Is there, at present, on the other hand, a dangerous inflow of poor quality American films and obscene and pornographic literature. 
If so, is this clearly an untenable trading situation. 
Will he take steps with the appropriate authorities to correct this imbalance of trade between the two countries and convert it into one which will benefit the economic and moral welfare of Australia. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it a factthat in its 1959 Metal Trades Margins decision the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission declared that the true function of the Commission is to settle industrial disputes and, further, that the Commissioners are not national economic policy makers or planners. 
If so, why does the Commonwealth regularly make submissions to the Commission which are designed to encourage it to consider the economic consequences of its decisions rather than to place primary emphasis on its constitutional role as a dispute settler. 
asked the Minister  for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Was the decision of Commonwealth Hostels Limited to appeal to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission against the decision of  Mr Conciliation  Commissioner E. J. Clarkson to award equal pay to females employed by Commonwealth Hostels Limited at migrant centres a matter that would fall within the area of policy decisions open to the Minister. 
If so, did his predecessor approve of the decision to lodge the appeal. 
Did Commonwealth Hostels Limited finally agree that some of the female workers whom the Conciliation Commissioner had awarded the male rate in 1968, were, in fact, entitled to such rate. 
Did Commonwealth Hostels Limited offer to make the phasing-in of the male rates for such females retrospective to the date of the Commissioner's original order, in order that the full male rates would have operated from January 1970 instead of from January 1972. 
If not, why not. 
Is it a fact that it is not known who owns Commonwealth Hostels Limited. 
If so, will he make an effort to discover the ownership of the company and inform the House accordingly. 
Does he see any merit in amending the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in such a way as to prohibit the Commission from issuing a stay order against decisions under appeal except in those cases in which it is the intention of the Commission to determine the appeal with reasonable expedition. 
asked the  Minister  for Labour and  National  Service, upon notice 
ls it a fact that in February 1968,  Mr Conciliation  Commissioner E. J. Clarkson awarded equal pay to females employed by Commonwealth Hostels Limited at migrant hostels throughout Australia. 
Is it also a fact that Commonwealth Hostels Limited appealed against that decision and the Commission issued a stay order and then refused to consider the matter further until it had completed the 1969 equal pay case. 
Did Commonwealth Hostels Limited subsequently agree that certain of the female workers affected by the award of February 1968 were, in fact, entitled to equal pay but then refused pay and phasing-in retrospectivity to that date. 
Does this refusal to apply retrospectivity mean that the females concerned will not only lose the increased pay which, except for the appeal, would have operated as from February 1968, but also, instead of qualifying- for the full male rate as from January 1970, they must now wait until January 1972, before so qualifying. 
Is it a fact that Commonwealth Hostels Limited is wholly owned by the Commonwealth and is administered by his Department. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Why did the Commonwealth not intervene in opposition to the recent Metal Trades Employers'' appeal against  Mr Conciliation  Commissioner T. C. Winter's decision to increase rales of pay for female process workers in the metal trades industry. 
Is it a fact that neither the Commonwealth, the Public Service Board nor any Commonwealth instrumentality has ever intervened in arbitration proceedings to support claims for increased wage rates for females, but has on more than one occasion intervened or appealed against applications for increased wage rates for females. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Did he make a statement to the Committee for Economic Development of Australia that trends in productivity in a particular industry do not justify wage increases in that industry. 
If so, in what way will his statement encourage unions and their members to increase productivity in particular industries. 
Would unions and their members receive a greater inducement to co-operate with management in securing higher productivity if the granting of wage increases in particular industries were related to the movements of increased productivity in such industries instead of lying wage increases in those industries to the national pattern of productivity. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Did he, in his official Press release of 12th June 1970, admit that his earlier announced scheme for civilian service as an alternative to national service would probably not be acceptable under International Labour Organisation Conventions and would have no constitutional basis; if so, why did he advocate such a proposal before he had properly examined its legality and TLO acceptability. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is the Commonwealth Industrial Court, in penal proceedings for a breach of a strike-ban, permitted to examine the validity of such a provision in an award. 
If not, is it a fact that the opinion of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in relation to its power is binding on the Industrial Court. 
If the Commission has such a power, does this deny the Court the right to exercise a judicial power reserved to it under the Constitution. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice:  ls it anticipated that the Publications Officer recently appointed  to  edit Commonwealth Arbitration Reports will  be  able to (a) keep pace with future decisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and (b) catch up the backlog in the publication of these reports. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the estimate in the annual report of the Tariff Board that tariff protection to Australian industries is costing the Australian economy up to $2.700m a year. 
Does this sum represent about $675 per year for each employed and self-employed person in the whole primary, secondary and tertiary Australian work force. 
Has he considered (al the effect of such protection on the purchasing power of wages and the consequential demand for increased wages, (b) the extent to which full employment is dependent upon the present level of protection and (c) the costcmployment benefit of the present level of protection. 
If not, is it his intention to consider these questions. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that on 19th October 1967 he and the Minister for Labour and National Service, together with the Director-General of Posts and Telegraphs and the Secretary, Department of Labour and National Service, entered into an informal understanding with the chief officers ot the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union, the Australian Postmasters Association and the Union of Postal Clerks and Telegraphists to direct every effort towards reaching agreement on the operation of the 5-day week principle within the Post Office. 
lt is also a fact that since that date his Department has refused to enter into meaningful negotiations for the 5-day week with the unions concerned and that on 20th May 1970 the First Assistant Commissioner of the Public Service Board stated that he had the authority of the Postmaster-General's Department to announce that the spreading of ordinary hours of duty over 5i days. Monday to Saturday, in post offices should continue. 
If so. did the statement of the First Assistant Commissioner correctly report his Department's decision. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Does the opposition by the Public Service Board to the introduction of the 5-day week in post offices meet with the approval of the Government. 
Is it a fact that about 6 months ago the Union of Postal Clerks and Telegraphists asked his Department to make a survey of post office trading on Saturday morning but that the processing of the survey is still unfinished. 
asked the Postmaster- 
General, upon notice: 
Did the Union of Postal Clerks and Telegraphists offer to agree to an extension of money order services on Fridays and to carry on general services on Friday until 6 p.m. as an alternative to opening post offices on Saturday. 
Did the Union also offer to continue to work on Saturdays in those post offices in which the existing volume of Saturday trading indicated that a 5-day week would cause inconvenience to large numbers of customers and disruption of services due to overloading of staff on Fridays. 
asked the Postmas ter-General, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Union of Postal Clerks and Telegraphists has asked his Department to sample public opinion on Friday evening trading in post offices and that nothing has yet been done to accede to the request. 
Is it also a fact that as an alternative to one 
Say of their stopwork programme next week the Union offered to co-operate in conducting a practical test and survey of public opinion by arranging for money order services to be available from 3.30 p.m. to 6 p.m. on the Friday and for ordinary trading to be extended from 5 p.m.  to  6 p.m. with an equivalent time deducted from trading on Saturday morning. 
If so, did  Mr N.  McDonald, representing the Director-General of Posts and Telegraphs, tell representatives of the Union that the Department was not geared for such a test even if the Union Was able and willing to carry out such a test of public requirements. 
asked the Minister for Labor and National Service, upon notice: 
What percentage of men examined for national service in each year since 1965 failed to meet the required medical or psychological standards for Army service. 
Is it a fact that the rate of medical or psychological failure has been greater among the sons of high income families than among those who come from the lower and middle income groups. 
asked the Minister for Labor and National Service, upon notice: 
Will the Government consider an amendment to the National Service Act to provide that, where an employee is called up for national service, his employer shall be required to pay the difference between his national service pay and the amount which he would have received but for his call up. 
If not, will the Government take steps to amend the Act in such a way as to require the Commonwealth to pay the difference between the national service pay and the amount which a national serviceman would have received but for his call up. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Are official records available to show the names and addresses of all men required to register for national service. 
If so, how many failed to register in each year since 1965 and how many of these were fined for their failure to register. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether the United States Government has already introduced legislation, and the Canadian Government is considering legislation, for a Bill of Rights for rank and file members of trade unions that guarantees to each member charged with a breach of union rules the right to a fair hearing by an impartial body and to participate fully in union meetings and elections. 
If so, will he consider taking steps to amendthe Conciliation and Arbitration Act in such a way as to give similar guarantees to members of Australian trade unions. 
I am glad that this debate has been arranged, because censorship is a matter to which we should give a lot of thought. I accept that, generally, speaking, those honourable members who have spoken in this debate have spoken with deep conviction and with deep sincerity. I respect people who sincerely believe that strict censorship is essential. I respect equally the views held by honourable members, such as the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass),  the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  and the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon),  who spoke in a vein which would suggest that they see little merit at all in censorship. I particularly congratulate the honourable member for Maribyrnong and the honourable member for Denison upon their speeches. I thought they gave fairly convincing contributions to the point of view they were putting forward. 
At the same time, I think that it is very unfair for the Press or anybody else to attack the present Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  for his administration of censorship as though he is one who favours strict, rigid, unreasonable censorship. This is the way the Minister is pictured by the Press, yet T would say that in all of the time I have been in this Parliament I have never known a Minister to do as much to enlighten the general public on censorship and to introduce liberal thinking into censorship than the present Minister has done. In my opinion it is grossly unfair to depict him as someone who is narrow minded and is opposed to the liberty of the individual to read all kinds of literature. The present Minister is the first Minister in the  20  years or so that I have been in Parliament who has allowed members of Parliament - back benchers and leading members from both sides of the House - to see what is being done in the field of censorship. Every book that is censored is open to a member of Parliament to look at if he wants to. I do not think that a member has any right to pontificate on censorship, especially if he is opposed to the kind of censorship that is imposed, unless he has first of all looked at the book that he believes ought to be made available to the public. 1 think the Minister will agree with me when I say that I practice what I preach. I have read most of the books which have been the subject of censorship. The Minister shows them to me and I read them and then return them. I will say that I found Portnoy's Complaint' to be thoroughly disgusting. It is a filthy piece of literature - if 
I can use the word 'literature' to describe it. It is not terribly bad except for perhaps one or two pages, but it was those one or two pages that turned what might have been an acceptable book into what it is, according to my standards, a thoroughly unacceptable one. I would not want anybody who I thought a lot of to read it. Whether it should be censored is, of course, another matter. 
As the Minister has said on occasions when I have heard him speak about censorship, all of us impose censorship upon ourselves in our everyday speech. No woman on this earth has ever heard me use the 4-letter word in her presence. She may have overheard it because I often use it in the presence of men. I was once a shearer. I am not a narrow minded person and I am not a prude. I can tell and enjoy smutty yarns. But I have never told a smutty yarn in front of my children nor will I and they respect me for it. I am not so silly as to say that they do not tell them or they have never heard one. but they have never heard me tell one. 
At the same time, I believe that there is a strong case for allowing those who want to see films containing sex scenes and those who want to see or read books of this nature to do so. It is much easier to police films than it is to lift the censorship on books. There is a simple way to police the censorship of films and that is to issue R certificates so that it becomes the bounden duty and responsibility of the exhibitor to ensure that nobody between the ages of  6  and  18  enters the picture theatre. It is his responsibility to do this in the same way as it is the responsibility of a publican to ensure that the laws relating to the drinking age limit are enforced. A child under  6  years of age would be unaffected by such a film. A mother might not be able to see a film if her  2-year  old child could not sit on her lap and go to sleep while she was looking at it. That is the reason why the age limit has been set between  6  and  18  years. 
I did not see the film 'The Adventurers' when it was being shown in Canberra, but my wife did. She is not a prude. At the same time, she is a person who does believe in some degree of refinement. It was not the film which disgusted my wife; indeed, she was not disgusted by it. What did disgust her and sicken her and a lady who went with her was the fact that school children sitting in front, behind and all round her - kiddies still going to primary school - represented the main part of the audience. I have been told by some people who have seen 'The Adventurers' that it  U  not the sort of film that ought to be banned from adult showing but it is not the sort of film that would do a lot of good, if any, to young children who are still going to school. 
I believe that we ought to be adult about this matter. I repeat that I see nothing wrong with any of the cuts which have been made in films dealing with sex. By that I mean that in my opinion, providing only adults were going to see them, these scenes should have never been excised from the films. However, it has to be remembered that these cuts were made at a time when the proposition of having R certificates was just not acceptable or tenable to the States. I hope that when R certificates are introduced in the States the Minister will not allow, or will not be a party to, savage censorship of sex scenes from films. In talking about sex scenes I am not talking about perversion; I am talking about normal, natural sex scenes which, delicately performed - performed, if you like, almost in an exquisite and skilful way which would do credit to anybody who would like to engage in the sex act. 
In case anybody thinks it is funny I would point out that all of us have at some time or other engaged in the sex act. It is nothing unnatural. It is not extraordinary. Our parents must have engaged in it. Therefore, it is so ridiculous and hypocritical for people to say that there is anything immoral, unnatural or obscene about the normal, natural sex act. I will admit that in some of the books which the Minister has shown to me the sex act is quite a ridiculous looking thing when photographed from certain angles. Thank goodness I have not had hidden cameras in my bedroom and thank goodness other honourable members have not because they would have seen the same thing as I saw in the books. But I do disagree with the Minister on this subject. I do not criticise him for the stand he has taken because, as I said earlier, he had done more to liberalise censorship than any Minister I can ever recall. I do not condemn him for his actions: I just do not agree with him. I hope that his success in liberalising censorship and in getting the public to take a more liberal and sensible view of censorship will soon produce a situation where he will feel free to release some of the books still on the banned list which are nothing more or less than sensible, well produced, unperverted manuals on sex. 
One called 'Love Positions' is a book showing positions of making love where the actors are clothed in bikinis. There is no sign of any organ or of a position that would be different to the position that every person in this House has at some time taken up. In my view there is no justification for banning it. I saw one entitled 'Sex Practices in Marriage'. There was nothing wrong with it. It was refined, delicately produced and did not show one single position which in my opinion would be objected to by any normal person. It would not hurt a young person of 16 or 17 years of age to see it either. I read volume I of that book. I have been advised that volume II is in a different category. Sexual Techniques' by Mogens Toft is another example of the kind of thing that I see no reason for banning or censoring. Variations on a Sexual Theme' carries a much worse title, or perhaps a more disappointing title for those who are looking for something extraordinary, out of the ordinary or of a perverted nature than it deserves to carry. But as far as I can recollect this is a perfectly proper book for married people to look at. "The Inheritors' by Harold Robbins, the author of 'The Adventurers' is a book that I have read. I was bored and I might be candid enough to say that 1 was terribly disappointed with this book. I do not know why it was banned. I asked the Minister why it was banned and he said: 'Well, I do not know. There is a reason somewhere; I have not read it myself yet.' He searched for the reason until the phone rang and we did not get the reason. But there must be some reason. 'The Magic Garden of Stanley Sweetheart' is not a terribly bright book. However, it is not one that ought to be banned. The honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  seems to have spent most of his time in Europe looking around for the addresses of pornographic shops and other places where one can get this sort of thing. The honourable member for 
Griffiths  (Mr Donald Cameron)  congratulated the honourable member for spending all of his time overseas sniffing out dens of pornography and snooping around back alleys for blue pictures and other such material. The honourable member for Griffiths thought that the honourable member for Kennedy had done a great service for the Parliament by coming back and telling us what he had seen. It seems this is not a genuine criticism. I think that we have to say that there are some books that are not good for the people who read them. I have not read 'Myra Breckenbridge' but the description I have had of it is one that would lead me to believe that a person could become richer in intellect by reading many thousands of other types of books. 
On the other hand I do not criticise the excision of violence. The violence that I saw in the pictures that were shown in extracts from the various cuts at the Library reflected the kind of censorship that 1 would have endorsed. They were disgusting, horrible and revolting. Those who believe in having no censorship at all say: 'Well, let the person who wants to see them be his own censor. If he does not want to look at violent films let him stay at home.' This is a pretty powerful argument; it is one that I find difficult to answer. I suppose providing that people receive a fair warning of the kind of picture they are to see it is up to them to decide whether they go or not. I think that is the sum total of the whole situation. In Sweden violence is the thing that is deleted. In America it is sex. In Sweden probably there is less sex than one would get in America. 
Is that what it is? However, in Australia we tend to wipe out violence and sex. I think there is a lot in what the honourable member for Prospect says - that pictures of nudity provide an outlet for the person who is unmarried or has a sex problem. However, at the same time it is possible that such pictures may deprave a person. 1 did not agree with the comment of my friend the honourable member for Maribyrnong that the Minister must be depraved because he reads censored books. I do not think that this is a good argument. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
 Mr Speaker,  I would like to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How many men were balloted in for liability to be examined for national service training in each year since 1965. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
What has been the venue and date of each meeting of the Immigration Advisory Council since 1st January 1964. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How many applicants for total exemption from national service were considered by the courts in each of the past 5 years. 
What was the (a) number and (b) percentage of applications (i) granted and (ii) refused, in each of these years. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that a person who in 1950 owned $1,000, or rather 1,000 shares, in the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd worth $5,270, and who took up all bonuses could be, for the total outlay of $5,300, the owner now of 5,270 shares worth $68,000 on the present share market? If the Prime Minister is not aware of the true position will he look it up and give a report to the Parliament? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What total amount was paid in wages . and salaries throughout the Commonwealth in each of the last 5 years for which figures are available. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
ls it a fact that between (a) full employment, (b) price stability and (c) wage fixation a community may choose any two, but cannot have all three. 
If so, has the Government achieved any two of these three objectives; if so, which one has it sacrificed. 
I must say something about the extraordinary speech to which' we have just listened. The honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  said  that  the Government represents all sections of the community. He said: 'I am a founder of the Liberal Party. We will not accept money from any organisation that can have any right of dictation over our policy. The Australian Labor Party is dictated to by the unions.' But will he deny that this Government in fact is being dictated to by the Press and by such wealthy backers as Ansett, the shipping companies, the hire purchase' companies and company speculators? 
Yes. I would like to know how much the honourable member for Bennelong got out of company speculation. I have in my hand an official stock exchange record which shows that International Mining Corporation NL issued 100,000 shares to  Sir John  Cramer. I presume that is you? 
They were issued for $10,000. The 100,000 shares that the honourable gentleman had allocated to him and for which he paid 10c each reached a market value at one stage of $680,000. No wonder he says that Australia is a prosperous country. No wonder he says that we are passing through the most prosperous period in Australia's history. No wonder he says - this ought to be noted - that there is no change in the policies and principles of the Liberal Party. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member is entitled to make a personal explanation at the end of this speech. 
No wonder the honourable member believes that we are passing through the most prosperous period that Australia has ever been through. But everybody in Australia has not passed through the prosperous period that the honourable gentleman has passed through. That is their trouble and that is why they are complaining. That is why they want a little more. They do not want $600,000, but they would like to get their fair share of the national cake and the increased productivity which they have been responsible for bringing about. 
The honourable member for Bennelong said also - this is the most damaging statement he could have made - that there has been no change in the policies and principles of the Liberal Party simply because it has changed leaders. I say to him: You are telling me. Of course there has been no change. That is our point. That is why we have moved the no confidence motion. The Liberal Party has changed its leader - the honourable member is right - but there has been no change in the policies and principles upon which the Government stands, and it is for this reason that we have moved the no confidence motion in the Government. It is the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  whom the pensioners have to thank for the recently announced increase in pensions because it is this motion of no confidence that extracted from and squeezed out of the people who sit opposite the miserable pittance which at last they have given reluctantly to the pensioners. I will come back to the honourable and speculative member for Bennelong later. 1 congratulate the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on having achieved at long last his ambition to become Prime Minister of Australia.  His  own brother Sam told me that the Prime Minister planned and commenced his run for the Prime Ministership on 1 1th December 1965, more than 5 years ago. He apparently felt rather sensitive about what happened. He once said: 'I am inclined to be iconoclastic'. I think the former Prime Minister would agree with him. Of course he is iconoclastic. He tends to drag down idols and in this case, unlike most other iconoclasts, he has put himself in the place of the idol he destroyed. He says that he has the confidence of his Party. I know of 33 members of the Liberal Party who told his predecessor 5 minutes before the Prime Minister was elected that the predecessor had their confidence. I suspect that he still has their confidence because one of the most moving sights I have ever witnessed and one of the most touching things I have seen - I hope that such treachery will never produce  a  repetition - was the former Prime Minister, the great, strong, tough and courageous man that he is, a giant amongst pygmies if ever there was one, announcing to the Parliament in a way that only a John Grey Gorton could do that 'my Party has stabbed me in the back and sacked me and it has appointed this political pygmy from Sydney to take my place.' 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Has a presidential member of the Arbitration Commission ever exercised his powers under section 33a of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to enforce employer acceptance of award rates or conditions by the insertion of a clause to ban the reduction or retrenchment of staff, or the closure of a work place or section thereof. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What is the difficulty in answering Question No. 1905 which has appeared on the Notice Paper each sitting day since 24th September 1970. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What is the difficulty in answering Question No. 1903 which has appeared on the Notice Paper each sitting day since 24th September 1970. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Regardless of what is contained in the International Labour Organisation publication Measuring Labour Productivity referred to in his answer to question No. 2091 (Hansard, 17th February 1971, page 193), will he give a specific answer to questions Nos 2091, 2092, 2093 2094, 2095, 2096, 2097, 2098, 2099, 2100, 2101, 2102, 2103, 2104, 2105, 2106, 2107, 2108 2109, 2110, 2111, 2112, 2113, 2114, 2115, and 2116 in lieu of a reference to material which I may or may not have read. 
When and how did he reach the conclusion that questions Nos 2091 to 2116 were based upon my reading of the I.L.O. publication referred to above. 
Why did it take him so long to give the kind of answer given to questions Nos 2091 to 2116 as contained in his answer to question No. 2091. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is he able to state the total number of deaths throughout Australia caused by (a) accidental 
n asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Can he state the total annual amount paid throughout the Commonwealth by owners of property in premiums for -insurance against the possibility of persons being injured oh their premises. 
asked the Treasurer,  upon notice: 
What proportion of the price rises which occurred in each year since 1940 was due to (a) increased wages, (b) increased profits and (c) reduced output? 
asked the Treasurer,  upon notice: 
What was the total amount paid in premiums on life assurance by Australians in each of the last 5 years for which figures are available. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Can he state the total  amount paid into friendly societies in Australia during each of the last 5 years for which figures are available. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
Has the further review of staffing needs in the printing section of the. registry in his Department to which he made reference in bis answer to Question No. 467 (Hansard, 19th August 1970, page 223) been completed; if so, witta what results. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Docs the average of weekly hours, inclusive of overtime worked, in the industries referred to in bis answer to question No. 2039 (Hansard, 16th February 1971, page 97)exceed the maximum hours specified in any convention of the International Labour Organisation. 
If so, what action does he propose to ensure the observance of the. Convention. 
 The Opposition is in favour of the proposal because we are very mindful of the fact that it was an amendment insisted upon by the Opposition in the Senate  -  I think I am right - and accepted finally by the Government, which makes it necessary now to have this matter dealt with by way of an Act of Parliament. I think this is the proper way to do it. However, I am still not satisfied that we have fixed and that we are in this case fixing a rate of remuneration suitable to attract to the services of the Parliament sufficient people to do the drafting work that has to be done in this place. 
The Parliamentary Counsel Act fixes the salary for the First Parliamentary Counsel at a rate equivalent to that paid to a permanent head of a department. It does not put it as high as the salary of a top level permanent head of a department, but nontheless it is the salary of a departmental permanent head. For that reason we are not dealing with his case. Although some people may think that SI 9,6 10 a year is a high salary for a second Parliamentary Counsel, it seems to me that it is still not high enough because we have been unable to attract .sufficient people to do the work that has to be done. It is a- pretty poor show when the Parliament of a nation is unable lo carry out its business because it has not the necessary staff to draft the Bills, lt is quite extraordinary and I think inexcusable that a parliament should find its work gummed up because it has not sufficient staff to ensure that Bills are ready when the Parliament is ready. Yet that is a fact of life. 
This is not a criticism of this Government. Every government, for as long as we have had a national Parliament has had the same problems. We just cannot attract to the Parliament, with the salary now being offered, people who have the special skills and training required for drafting and who have the necessary legal qualifications. Perhaps drafting is an uninteresting job. Or perhaps, if a person became absorbed in it or became tied up in it it would become a very interesting job. One of the best lawyers this country has ever produced, that is the present Chief Justice,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, once said that a very good lawyer is not always a very good draftsman. When a man of such distinction in the law readily admits that drafting is something that is very often outside the capacity of the very best practising lawyer, we begin to understand the special training and expertise which is required to do the job. I know that this Government and preceding governments have been criticised and blamed for delays in bringing down legislation when it has not always been the fault of the Government but has been due to the fact that the Government has not got the drafting of the legislation completed. 
One instance of delay is the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Bill. This Bill was in the process of being considered by draftsmen for 5 or 6 years before it reached the Parliament in 1970. Then the Government decided - I imagine this is the reason for the delay in proceeding with the legislation - to accede to some of the representations made to it by the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations and the Australian Council of Trade Unions, and perhaps by other Commonwealth associations concerned with the Bill. Having decided to accede to some of the amendments which had been sought, the Government found that it could not proceed with the Bill until the amendments were drafted. The Government had two courses open to it. It could have said to the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations: 'We want the Bill to go through quickly and therefore it will have to go through in its present form'. Or it could have said: 'Very well, we are impressed by what you say but we cannot bring the Bill in until we have had time to draft the amendments', and that is what it finally did. 
This is not good enough for the people of Australia who look to this place and to no other place for legislation covering areas in which we have the sole constitutional right to operate. It is not good enough that the desires of the Australian people for reform are held back simply because the Office of the Parliamentary Counsel has not sufficient staff. -It has been said, I know, that it would not matter how much were offered because wages reach a certain point beyond which it would not matter how much was offered the salary would not attract the extra staff. I do not deny that this is so. I can imagine that it could be true. The number of people qualified to act as Parliamentary Counsel is few. lt could be true that no matter what extra salary were offered, no additional applicants would apply for the position. The salaries of present employees would be increased but the real objective of the increase - namely, getting additional staff - would not be achieved. 
If that is the position, perhaps the Attorney-General's Department and the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  could consider my submissions. The AttorneyGeneral is a very resourceful person. I hope he still occupies that position when the new Ministry is announced. I hope the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock),  who appears to have just about made it, is here too. He seems happy enough. However, 1 am more concerned that the Attorney-General should hold his position because to date he has shown himself to be resourceful enough, young enough and active enough to want to do things. It may be that he should give some consideration to introducing some well paid attractive cadetship for Parliamentary Counsel. Young lawyers who have just completed their law degree could join the staff. They would not necessarily need to have their articles or need to have been admitted to the Bar. They could be brought in as cadets and trained to do this job. In fact they might be spoilt if they had too much attachment to the Bar or if they had had too much to do with practising lawyers. It may be better if they came here straight from the universities. The Attorney-General should look at my proposal, if this is the only way of attracting staff, because the Office of the Parliamentary Counsel needs more staff and it needs them urgently. 
That is all we say about the Bill, lt is a very proper Bill, lt passes on to Second Division officers the 6 per cent increase awarded by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in the national wage case. It is proper also that payment be made retrospective to the date on which the national wage increases applied to all other grades. For those reasons we have much pleasure in supporting the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What are the arrangements relating to the costs of printing, supply and distribution of parliamentary statements and speeches by Ministers. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Government considered a proposal under which Commonwealth employees may convert half-pay sick leave credits into full-pay sick leave entitlements. 
If so, what progress has been made in consideration of the proposal. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that a Full Bench of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission on 4 September 1970, in a decision on appeal from the  Deputy  Public Service Arbitrator, awarded increased salaries to senior principal research scientists, chief research scientists and chiefs of division in the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation stating that the decision was designed to give effect to the concept of a continuum in CSIRO research salaries and established a new relativity between the salaries of the senior officers and those of research scientists in the lower research scientist classifications. 
Is it a fact that the Public Service Board and the Executive of the CSIRO granted 15 per cent salary increases to research scientists in the lower research scientist classifications. 
If the answer to parts (1) and (2) is in the affirmative, will he take appropriate steps to ensure the restoration of the relativity referred to in part (1). 

 Mr Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is he able to give the average cost of funeral; in each State in the case of (a) burials and  (b)  cremations. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that investment spending, not consumer spending, is the major factor in the present inflationary crisis on the expenditure side. 
What was the annual growth rae of  (a)  retail sales and (b) private investment in each of the last 5 years for which figures are available. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Have the Public Service Board and the Permanent Heads of the various Commonwealth departments advised the Public Service unions and associations of the precise measures to be taken to put into effect the Government's policy regarding restraint in the growth of the Commonwealth Public Service. 
If not, will he request the Public Service Board and Permanent Heads to suitably inform the Public Service unions and associations. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What was the total number of driving licences issued in each of the States and Territories of the 
Commonwealth during each of the last 5 years for which figures are available. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Can the Government guarantee that a check in the upward trend in wage costs would prevent an upward movement in costs and prices. 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General and relates to the recent metal trades cases concerning the Commonwealth Engineering works in which 5 unions were involved and in which case the Commonwealth Industrial Court imposed penalties of $100 a day for each of the IS days that the dispute lasted. I ask the Minister whether it is a fact that the Commonwealth was represented at the hearing and made submissions as to the correct meaning of the law with respect to the imposition of fines under the recently amended penalty provisions of the Act. Did the court reject the Commonwealth's submissions and impose penalties of $100 a day for each day of the stoppage occurring before and after the issuing of the presidential certificate? If so, does the Government intend to examine the Act further to see what amendments are necessary to make the law conform to what counsel for the Commonwealth submitted was in fact the meaning of the law and . the intention of Parliament? 
The Opposition welcomes this opportunity to examine the Government's bona fides on productivity and related questions. Government spokesmen have never been able to make up their minds on what is meant by 'productivity'. It is no wonder that the general public does not understand what it means. Sometimes a Government spokesman will quote figures that relate productivity to the gross national product. Sometimes the figures relate to net national product. Sometimes these are quoted at constant prices. At other times, current prices are used. When counsel for the Government put the Commonwealth's case to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in last year's national wage case, he referred to 'factor cost'. 'Input-output productivity' is yet another term used to describe the Government's idea of what productivity' means. 
Does the Government treat these vague and contradictory definitions as interchangeable? No one knows! Least of all the new Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  who in his statement as Minister for Labour and National Service, on 23rd February, further confused the whole question by giving yet another definition.  His  confusion became worse confounded with each uncertain step he took into his strange world of economic fantasy. To a future Liberal Treasurer, this was nothing new, but it was no excuse for giving the false impression that increased productivity automatically improves the living standards of all the people. It was no excuse for assuming that the existing division of gross national product as between labour and capital is ideal; or that real living standards can be gauged by counting the number of motor cars, television sets and telephones. One thing the new Treasurer has overlooked is that families are becoming more and more dependent upon working mothers, overtime, and upon breadwinners taking part time employment to supplement their normal wages. 
The Treasurer made no mention of the fact that Department of Labour and National Service surveys of larger private factories show that the volume of overtime worked in 1969-70 was close to 11 per cent greater than in 1968-69. He appears to see no significance in the fact that over the 12 months to May 1970 the number of married women in the employed work force increased by no less than 9.8 per cent. Does he not understand that it is economic necessity alone that forces a wage or salary earner to allow the mother of his children to go to work while his family is still in need of her at home? No father and no mother does this except for the reason that present day costs of living, of housing, and of health and education render it impossible for the average family to live on the wage which the average worker receives. 
The Government is fond of quoting the Commonwealth Statistician's figures for average weekly earnings as though they represent the weekly earnings of an average worker. The present figure of average weekly earnings is $84.80, but this figure is arrived at by including the salaries of the Prime Minister, Ministers, Judges, senior public servants, Premiers and highly paid business executives. The figure gives a distorted picture of reality because 69 per cent of all wage and salary earners get less than the average weekly earnings. The simple fact is that, notwithstanding overtime and working mothers, families are still being forced to rely more and more upon finance companies to bridge the gap between income and the cost of living. Debts to finance companies have reached the staggering sum of $4, 165m. The Treasurer was simply not telling the truth when he said that we now enjoy greater social security. The truth is that the value of social services represents a smaller percen tage of average weekly earnings than it did 25 years ago; and it is falling each year. 
The Treasurer began his speech by chiding the ordinary citizen for his lack of understanding of the word 'productivity'. But by the time he finished his statement it was evident that the Treasurer himself knew little about the subject. He used the word 'productivity' 66 times without once saying how it is to be measured or recorded. Indeed, it is true to say that although the Government keeps bleating about 'productivity' and constantly condemns the Arbitration Commission for its refusal slavishly to follow Government directives about wages and productivity, it shows no real interest in the establishment of machinery for measuring and recording movements in the kind of productivity to which the Treasurer refers in his speech. According to his predecessor, the Government has not even bothered to issue official statistics of productivity per head of work force in various categories of industry since 1950. Ministers have said that the Commonwealth Statistician is still examining the desirability of compiling and publishing measures of change in productivity per unit of labour force at the level of major industries, groups of industries and gross national product. If the Government is honest about its professed concern for increased productivity and for establishing productivity-wage relativity there should be no room for debate on the desirability of compiling meaningful statistics on productivity. Without statistics of this kind, how can the Government, the Arbitration Commission, the trade unions or employers ever know whether labour is getting its fair share of increased productivity? 
Other countries have found ways for measuring and recording many productivity factors which Australia has not even attempted. I gave notice of no less than 26 questions to the present Treasurer seeking information of what is reported to be the position in other countries. He demonstrated his lack of interest in the subject by refusing to give either an affirmative or negative reply to the first of those questions; and then answered the other 25 questions by referring me to his first evasion. And this, mark you, comes from a Government which pretends to be concerned with productivity trends. It is just not true to say, as Ministers claim, that tables on input-output productivity cannot be produced in Australia. A few weeks ago the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics did, in fact, prepare a set of such tables. But they were 8 years out of date by the time they were published - in preliminary form. The tables did, however, cover more than 100 industries. They were in a detailed form and could have been made to give even more detail. The more detailed such tables are, the more useful they are for forecasting, planning and policy making. Since input-output tables provide this detailed information not only for one industry, but for all industries, inputoutput tables represent a fully integrated and internally consistent information system on the cost and output structure of each industry, and of the economy. 
The unique information provided in the tables on the flow of goods and services in the economy, together with their ability to show the inter-industry and inter-sector effects of specific changes in economic policy, mean that the tables can be used for national planning of either the directive or indicative type. They can be used to set targets of growth, productivity or employment. What is more, they can be made to serve as a basis for the sound formulation of social and welfare policies. And they can also be used to assist unions to negotiate productivity agreements. In short, they provide the basis for proper planning which every modern country except Australia believes fundamental. The wealth of information provided by such tables, together with the sophisticated techniques of input-output analysis which are now available, make these tables an essential economic tool for any government which wishes to pursue a positive approach in the field of economic and social policy. 
Why has this Government neglected these statistics? Why, in the face of such neglect, does it go on talking about compelling the Arbitration Commission to fix wages according to productivity? The answer must be that the Government is either incompetent or just plain dishonest. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  can take his pick. 1 say both. Instead of acting as other countries have done, the Government prefers to let the economy drift with the rising tide of inflation, rather than attempt proper methods of direction. It is prepared to strike at the living standards of 4i million wage and salary earners, but it will do nothing to control the price of things that employers have to sell. No wonder  Mr Hawke,  the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, has accused the Government of using double standards for dealing with inflation. 
Who led the opposition to  Sir Garfield  Barwick's original Bill to control restrictive trade practices involving resale price maintenance? The present Prime Minister. Who won the Cabinet battle to have that provision excluded from that Bill? The present Prime Minister. Who has most consistently supported increased interest charges? Again, the present Prime Minister. Who torpedoed  Sir Arthur  Fadden's excess profits tax in 1951? The present Prime Minister. And, finally, let this Parliament compare the double standards used by the Prime Minister when considering current demands by the Australian Medical Association for a 15 per cent increase for general practitioners, with his intemperate condemnation of the 6 per cent wage increase awarded to wage and salary earners in the national wage case. (Quorum formed.) 
Again I ask: Why has the Government refused to match its ministerial speeches with ministerial action? I do not intend to leave the question of productivity indexes without probing more deeply into the Government's failure to act in the matter. I know that the Commonwealth Statistician once stated his intention to publish inputoutput tables for 1968-69. I know also that work on these tables has been suspended at the planning stage and may even be abandoned altogether. This is partly due to reductions which have been made in the budget of the Bureau of Census and Statistics as part of the present Public Service austerity programme, but it is also due to the low priority placed on this work by the Bureau, despite repeated requests by organisations such as the Tariff Board. The Board needs up to date input-output information to help it assess the effects of protection on employment, output, etc. 
In spite of its professed interest in productivity, the Australian Government's attitude to input-output data is in complete contrast with the attitude of most overseas countries. The Treasurer, in refusing to answer 26 of my questions on the factgathering activities of other countries, shows that he just does not care what happens in other countries. All he wants to do is to tranquilise the Australian puNic with his appearances on Australian television in which he always attempts, I think, a poor imitation of  Sir Robert  Menzies. The Japanese Government, which makes extensive use of input-output data, has a permanent staff of 20 economists and a part-time staff of 30 people and 10 programmers working on input-output tables. This compares with a staff of 4 or 5 in Australia. Other nations making extensive use of up to date input-output tables are the Scandinavian countries. This is particularly true of Norway, which maintains standing input-output tables on computers. Holland, the United States and Czechoslovakia are just some of the other countries that do likewise. 
I cannot say for certain whether the Government's apparent lethargy is actually due to its incompetence or dishonesty, or both. It may be due to the fear of embarrassment that answers on productivity tables may give. These answers may prove beyond all doubt that if the Arbitration Commission were to have proper regard to productivity trends, in conjunction with trends in prices, it would need to award much higher wages to ensure that a proper share of Australia's $30,000m national cake goes to the  4i  million employees who provide the labour needed to produce it. Why, in fact, was the former Minister for Labour and National Service so slow, and so shy, about giving straight answers to so many of the questions that I have placed on the notice paper, except for the embarrassment which the truth would bring? There is considerable evidence to support the view that the Government is opposed to granting real and meaningful incentives for greater productivity because on 17th February 1971 the Treasurer gave a reply to one question in which he openly stated that increased production in a particular industry would not justify wage increases in that industry. Perhaps this explains the Government's refusal to support the current wage claims of coal miners whose productivity has risen by 261 per cent in the last 10 years. In his statement, the Treasurer said: 
Out of all this discussion and consideration, one conclusion has become abundantly cleat, that is, it is at the level of each single enterprise that a concern for productivity is most critical if the national total is to be improved. 
But having stressed the importance of lifting productivity in individual enterprises, the Treasurer goes on to stress that wage benefits from such productivity trends should be confined to increases reflected through the national wage cases. How can there be any real incentive to the employees of one factory, or even a whole industry, say, the coal mining industry, if they are to receive only their share of their own productivity after it has been spread over the full  4i  million employees affected by the national wage case? Wage relativity with productivity is not quite as simple as Government statements might suggest. There are some who will say that once we solve the problem of recording productivity, the Arbitration Commission will need only to apportion the gross national product justly between labour and capital and then devise a formula for the automatic allocation of prospective increases in productivity. At first glance, this may appear a feasible, or perhaps perfect, solution for ensuring that both labour and capital will always receive their just share of productivity. A closer look at the proposition, however, shows that on its own, the proposal would do very little to equate money wages to real wages. While profits remain uncontrolled, price increases will always outstrip wage increases. For these reasons, control over prices, restrictive trade practices and excessive tariffs, is elementary if a cure is to be found for the present economic instability. To cry out for increased productivity while increased prices are permitted to erode the wage benefit that may follow increased productivity is only beating the air. However, given proper control over prices, interest charges, etc. the Arbitration Commission could fix national minima in wages and conditions, and in this way establish a fair starting point for over-award agreements in those industries able to pay above the minima fixed by the Commission. 
I have already made the point that a national wage based upon the gross national product must rest upon a proper ratio first being determined between labour and capital. If the ratio is fixed at a percentage of the GNP which enables the most inefficient or uneconomical industry to survive, we must, of necessity, finish up with a wage that is too low if one has regard for productivity potential in the more advanced sectors of industry. One alternative is to tie the national wage to the maximum wage capacity of the more efficient industries, and allow industries that are either uneconomical or inefficient to be phased out of existence. Few people however, would want a wage policy that would put hundreds of thousands of employees out of work. Therefore, it seems proper that if a wage level is to be set within the maximum wage capacity of the less prosperous industries, it is only proper that the Arbitration Commission should be given full power to encourage industrial agreements for over-award wages and conditions in industries that oan well afford to pay above the minima set by the Commission. 
Industrial agreements can provide tremendous potential for peace in industry. 1 know, because 1 was a full time official of the Australian Workers' Union for more than 10 years. During the period that  I  was secretary and court advocate for the biggest union in South Australia I negotiated scores of industrial agreements for over-award wages and conditions. In this way I was able to do 2 things: I was able to secure better terms of employment for my members than were obtainable from the court and I was able to give to employers the kind of guarantee against strikes which no court could give. It is my proud boast that during the whole of my term of office as the administrative head of the AWU in South Australia, not a single man-hour was lost on account of an industrial dispute in any of the industries covered by an industrial agreement. One thing is vital to the success of the industrial agreement system of settling disputes. That is a close liaison between the negotiating officials and the rank and file members of the union affected by the agreement. Where there is bureaucratic control of a union this requirement is impossible. The rank and file cannot be blamed for repudiating a bad agreement. Sometimes these sweetheart agreements are made for the sole purpose of forcing employees at a particular job to join one union rather than another. 
I would like to support what I have just said about the need for rank and file approval of industrial agreements by quot ing from a paper prepared by  Dr W.  A. Howard and  Dr P.  A. Riach, senior lecturers in Economics at the Monash University, and read to the 1970 conference of the Royal Institute of Public Administration. The paper referred to the current agreement between the Seamen's Union of Australia and Associated Steamships Pty Ltd and went on to say: 
The company gives much of the credit for the successful negotiation to the leadership of the Seamen's Union, contending that agreement would not have been possible had any other union been involved ... 
Much of (he union's reputation for strictly observing agreements reached, stems from the leadership policy of consulting and informing ils membership al all stages of negotiation, and of never committing its members to policies they have nol previously endorsed. 
The future may find a need for the Arbitration Commission to arbitrate overaward rates between unions and prosperous employers. If so, it should feel uninhibited by the fact that the settlement of a particular wage dispute might call for a higher minimum than that fixed for industry generally. This will be a dramatic departure from the practice which has always been observed throughout the whole history of arbitration in Australia. So what? We are living in a new era. The past has gone, and the present demands a new relationship between labour and capital, a relationship which can be made profitable for both by giving to each nothing less than justice. Organised labour must be convinced that its members are not being cheated in the drive for increased productivity. Perhaps the ideal way for sharing increased productivity is to (i) reduce prices - thus passing on to the general public some of the benefit; (ii) increase wages - thus providing an incentive for continued employeremployee co-operation; and (iii) allow some increase in profit - thus giving the necessary encouragement to management for increased capital investment. One proposal being considered by the Labor Party's advisers, and which appears likely to be accepted, would be to grant a taxation exemption on income derived from increased productivity, conditional upon part of the profit being set aside for increased wages and specified price reductions. 
Wise employers recognise the rich rewards that come from establishing amicable relations with organised labour. 
Industrial agreements for the sharing of productivity in return for industrial peace place an employer at a decided advantage over his competitor. He can plan his costing in the certain knowledge that expensive machinery will not become idle through industrial disputes. The procedure for enforcing agreements would be part of. the agreement itself and thereafter enforceable by the court. But only those penalties, if any, as might be agreed upon at the time of the agreement could be imposed upon the parties by a court. While it is true that the general policy of the trade union movement is resolutely opposed to the penal provisions of the Arbitration Act, I know of no trade union official who would not honour an industrial agreement which incorporated benefits not obtainable from the Commission.  Mr Hawke  has publicly declared that the Australian Council of Trade Unions will see that any agreement made under the auspices is honoured.  Mr Ray  Gietzelt, who is Federal Secretary of the third largest union in the country, has always honoured the many agreements that have been made between the Miscellaneous Workers' Union and the various employers with whom he deals. The imposition of agreed penalties for breach of an agreement voluntarily made by a union with the endorsement of its members affected, is an entirely different proposition from a penalty of $500 a day for refusing to accept wage rates arbitrarily imposed upon a union by the Arbitration Commission. 
If over-award payments assist to maintain industrial peace or in increasing productivity nothing ought to be done to discourage agreements of this kind. The Government's opposition to these kinds of arrangements is mainly responsible for most of today's unrest. When the imposition of fines actually creates disputes instead of settling them it becomes the duty of responsible government to see that fines are not imposed or collected. If it can be accepted that one of the prime aims of government is to improve industrial relations, the enforcement of a bad law merely for enforcement sake is quite irrelevant and, at the same time, most harmful to the economy and national unity. I know that I could bring peace to industry in this country because I know that the trade union movement is not irresponsible or unreasonable. All that it wants is a fair go. It is not getting that now! Associated Steamships Pty Ltd is among the thousands of employers who will testify to this. But the task of maintaining amity between reasonable employers and reasonable trade unions is made difficult when the Government and unreasonable employers combine to provoke disharmony for the crudest political motives. Is it to be confrontation or co-operation? By its crude, cynical methods this Government will only succeed in uniting the Labor movement - that is, the whole work-force of Australia, blue collar, white-collar, industrial workers, and professional workers - in a way it has not been united since 1929. 
The Government's decision to collect outstanding fines could lead to a 24-hour general stoppage costing the community $100m each time each fine is collected. Such a proposition, however, may appeal to the Prime Minister as an ideal way of creating the kind of political climate in which an election may be fought with political advantage to the Government. Such reckless irresponsibility and blatant political opportunism as this will backfire on the Government because the public will be intelligent enough to realise that an election fought in such a climate will resolve nothing. The Government has made the mistake of telegraphing its political punches. If the Government can win the next election the law will remain the same after the election as it is now and the ACTU's resolve to resist to the utmost this pernicious law will remain the same. A law that cannot command the general acceptance of the community is a bad law and should be replaced by a law that is acceptable. A Labor government will do that. It will reform the industrial laws of this country in such a way as to bring order in place of the chaotic condition that now exists between labour and capital. 
I would like to see the establishment of conciliation committees so that face to face frankness can take the place of the synthetic antagonisms generated by lawyers under today's legalistic system. Now that the judicial powers of the old Arbitration Court have been separated from the arbitral functions of the Commission, the creation of conciliation committees are probably within the power of the Parliament. If they are not within that power, it only strengthens the Labor Party's claim that a sensible solution of disputes between employer and employee cannot be finally and fully achieved without amending the Constitution. A Labor government will, therefore, hold a referendum to seek approval from the Australian people for the removal of the anomalies and ridiculous restrictions inherent in today's horse and buggy constitutional powers to settle industrial disputes. The Government is constantly blaming the Arbitration Commission for the present inflationary situation, thus showing that it is unable to distinguish between cause and effect. The very need for increased wages is itself the direct effect of inflation - not the cause of it. No government has the right to transfer its economic responsibilities to the Arbitration Commission in order to escape the political backlash of unpopular political action. The position was well put by officers of the ACTU when they said: 
Any attempt by the Government to throw the blame for inflation on to the Arbitration Commission and wage and salary earners is a barren abdication of responsibility. 
The Government has openly stated its intention to strip the Arbitration Commission of its independence and to convert it into a subservient government agency for implementing unpopular government policy. The Prime Minister talks of percentage increases as though percentages of different totals can be identical in money terms. He forgets, or does not know, that a 10 per cent increase in last year's GNP would amount to $3,015m, whereas a 10 per cent increase in last year's total wages bill would come to only $l,554m. The difference between the 2 figures will, in the main, be taken up in gross profits. 
Out of last year's GNP of $30, 153m, only $ 1 5,549m went to the 4i million Australian employees. Surely the Government does not expect that these wage and salary earners, whose numbers are now increasing at the rate of 191,000 every year, will remain satisfied with a constant share of about half the national cake, while the balance of the workforce share the other half. Repressive laws and heavy fines will not stop industrial unrest while this injustice remains. 
Before leaving the Government's proposal to nobble the Commission, let me just remind the Prime Minister that there exists in this country a thing known as the Con stitution. It is the linchpin of all Commonwealth law. Remove it, and the whole structure of Commonwealth law will collapse. I mention the matter because the Prime Minister's proposal for amending the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in such a way as to compel the Commission to place economic questions above its constitutional obligations is fraught with very serious consequences. Some of these could affect the very fabric of Australian society. The constitutional role of the Commission was perhaps best stated by its  President, Sir Richard  Kirby, in the 1965 national wage case, when he said that whilst price stability for the community at large should be considered - and I now quote him exactly - 'to give it dominance rather than influence as one factor to be considered is not only wrong policy, but also something this Commission was not created to do, should not do, and has not the competence or power to do'. 
When the prevention or settlement of an industrial dispute calls for an increase in wages, the Commission must not be prevented from so acting. I have already shown that in fixing national minima, the Commission tends to have regard to maximum wage paying capacity of the less efficient industries. I have shown how prosperous employers tend to treat these minima as the maximum for their particular industries. I have expressed the view that if the Commission is going to fix general standards at levels needed to preserve inefficient industries, it must be prepared to consider over-minimum rates for industries whose prosperity is above the norm. It is worth mentioning also that most of the unpaid fines which the Government now proposes to collect from unions, followed the Commission's deliberate and unsuccessful attempt to convert minimum wage rates into maximum rates. The Prime Minister's fixation against over-award payments is a clear manifestation of his desire to make the minimum wage payable by the poorest employer the maximum wage that will be paid by the richest employer. This is not the kind of approach that will excite the interest of labour in plans for lifting productivity. 
I turn again to the Treasurer's productivity statement. He asked: 'How do we explain to the community that the absence from work amounts to the reduction of the nation's workforce by 200,000 persons?' For a start, his figure is a gross distortion of avoidable loss. It is nothing like 200,000 man-years. But distortions apart, the explanation for the loss due to labour disputes is simple. The cause lies in the unfair distribution of GNP, the failure of wage rates to keep pace with prices and, of almost equal importance, the inadequacy of the law to cope with non-wage disputes. Statistics for 1970 are not yet available, but in 1969, about 750,000 man-days were lost in protest strikes against strike penalties. Strikes concerning victimisation, union demarcation, and managerial policy accounted for the loss of 510,000 mandays, and disputes over wages, hours and leave, caused the loss of 666,000 mandays. Not all of these losses could have been avoided it is true, but a majority of them could have been eliminated but for serious defects in the law. Let me take, for example, the victimisation of unionists and of union delegates which is a cause of such tremendous friction and of such enormous loss of working time. It is now 1 1 years since the Industrial Court revealed the serious defect in the section of the Act, which is designed to give protection against victimisation. I wrote to the Treasurer on this defect, and I raised the matter in the Parliament. During last year alone, I asked no less than 7 questions on the subject. The Treasurer's first reply dodged the issue, and most of his other answers merely directed my attention to his first reply. In a letter I received from the Treasurer last year, he promised to deal with the question when the Act was amended a few months' later, but when the Act was amended a few months later no mention whatever was made of the matter. 
My several questions relating to defects in the law affecting union demarcation, have been met by the Treasurer's usual attitude of lofty indifference to industrial law reform. We now have the absurd situation that if a demarcation dispute arises between a State union and a member of the State branch of a federal union, neither the Commonwealth Commission nor the State tribunal has any power to make a binding order for settlement. Ever since the Menzies Government amended the Act in 1951, trade unions have complained about the highly legalistic nature of arbi tration procedures. The complaints have been ignored. But when the Commission refused to be intimidated in the last national wage case by the public utterances of Liberal Party Ministers, Government spokesmen then began to echo the union's complaint about the excess legalism of the arbitration system; Government spokesmen even went to the point of declaring support for the appointment of non-lawyers to the bench of the Arbitration Commission. However, on 16th February this year, in a reply that had apparently been prepared before the national wage decision was known, the Treasurer demonstrated his Government's ambivalence to most industrial questions by actually stating an opposite view to the one expressed by the then Prime Minister after the national wage case. He said that the proposal to appoint an economist to the bench had been considered by the Government on several occasions but the Government had not seen fit to adopt it. 
Harmonious industrial relations demand that those who make and administer the industrial laws, possess a deep understanding of the causes of industrial unrest. The real cause of today's unhealthy condition can be sheeted home to the Government's failure to comprehend the elementary principles of industrial peace. A Labor government would bring to the industrial arena an expertise which has been lacking for more than a generation. Labor could, and would, secure the support of organised labour - blue collar, white collar and professional - in hammering out a new approach that would eliminate avoidable stoppages, develop better understanding between labour and capital, and lift production to the level that will be necessary if we are to compete with the rest of the world. We have not got a lot of time. The seventies will decide whether this country sinks or swims. All sections must be brought together before it is too late. Yet this Government wishes deliberately to divide the Australian people. 
It is when the many are cheated by the few that kingdoms fall and empires collapse. The present state of affairs in Australia is but the first symptom of the disaster that will overtake our country unless we act now. Incentive must come from the top. Managing directors who regularly set aside 2 working afternoons for golf each week have no moral right to call upon their employees for greater productivity. 
Many of our less profitable industries could be made more profitable if management were more efficient. But why bother to buy the latest machinery when an approach to the Tariff Board will obviate the need for greater efficiency and capital outlay? We will never get the best results from our resources of manpower and capital while this mentality persists. The battle for increased productivity cannot be won at the workbench while there is slackness at the level of management. 
Increasing productivity and the sharing of productivity is one question. They are not, as the Treasurer suggests, 2 separate questions. He talked a lot about increasing productivity but said nothing about the way it should be shared. Instead he devoted the whole of his speech to a thesis aimed at merely maintaining the status quo. But the status quo is not good enough. The number of employees in the workforce is increasing at the rate of 3.7 per cent a year and in 3 years' time, will be about one million more than it was 3 years ago. Yet this increase in the total number of employees will still have to be satisfied with the same share of the national cake as the very much smaller number of employees received 10 years ago. 
In fact, not only is the total number of employees increasing rapidly, but, according to the Australian Economic Review of December last year, the estimated proportion of the work force classed as employees receiving wages or salaries since 1955- 56 has moved up from 89.6 per cent to 91 per cent. Increased productivity and increased growth are all very well. The Australian Labor Party is in favour of growth too. But growth is not everything, as the Americans and Japanese, for example, are finding out. Pollution increases the gross national product but hardly makes society better off. Some American economists now sometimes scornfully refer to gross national product as gross national pollution. We ignore the wise remarks of the Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, at our peril. We ignore them at the risk of the very fabric of the earth on which we live.  Sir Garfield  was talking to a Conference of 
Engineers on 22nd March 1971, and he said: 
It is no exaggeration to say that travelling at its present accelerating rate, pollution as the product direct or indirect of industry threatens the basic life-support of this planet. 

 Sir Garfield went on to declare that GNP had become an hypotic index by which we believed progress could be measured. Thoughtful people should ponder those words. The Prime Minister cannot sidetrack the issue of how to share the GNP we already have. Too much of the national cake is now going to too few, leaving some 4½ million employees to live on the balance. The Government is blatantly and unashamedly a government of the rich, by the rich, for the rich. I do not overlook the need for maintaining a proper growth rate. At the same time, it is not in the best interests of our nation to stifle growth rate in the public sector by permitting excessive growth in the private sector. Many of Australia's most urgent needs are in the fields of education, health and public welfare, urban development, and financial assistance to underdeveloped countries. Wage and salary earners would not mind yielding some of the GNP now denied them, in order to meet additional expenditure in these areas of the public sector. 
The Australian work force wants, and must be given, better educational opportunities for its youth. It wants, and must be given, a better health plan for its sick; and it wants, and must be given, greater social security and dignity for those who are sick or too old to work. For these benefits, the Australian work force is willing to forego some of that share of the national cake which is now consumed in profits. The Treasurer, however, was right when he drew attention to the fact that the incidence of industrial accidents is such as to equal the loss of 17,000 man-years from the work force.  Sir William  Hudson,  Chairman  of the National Safety Council puts the total production cost of industrial accidents at $ 1,000m a year. What could be more harmful to our. productive potential than this. This is surely one field in which the Government could have shown much greater interest than it has done. In point of fact, the Government has not even bothered to compile statistics on the incidence and cause of industrial accidents in the Australian Capital Territory. Neither has it made use of its statistical powers to collate such material in respect of the various States. Even the inter-departmental statistics concerning the Commonwealth's own employees were withheld from the Parliament when I asked a question on this subject last year. There can be no national remedy for this national problem until we first of all get a government that will pinpoint the causes of industrial accidents. 
The whole question of personal injury from road accidents as well as industrial accidents is one that needs deep and detailed study. The Government remains quite unmoved by the fact that nearly $300m of the GNP is spent each year in paying for insurance premiums for only partial coverage of earnings lost by persons suffering personal injuries in these kinds of accidents. Something like 33 per cent of all premiums on workers' compensation insurance is swallowed up in administrative costs and profits. This is sheer waste. A centrally administered insurance scheme could be administered for only 9 per cent. These are not the only examples of lost opportunities for lifting the level of productivity. Why, for example, are we allowing the private sector to export iron ore instead of first converting it into ingots, or at least, pig iron? Why are we permitting foreign countries to reap the productivity potential that comes from the full process of converting Australian bauxite into aluminium products? There is no better oportunity for increasing input-output productivity than in the field of mineral conversion. If the private sector will not act in this area, the Commonwealth should help the Government of Western Australia and Queensland to do so. 
Reference has been made to the Productivity Promotion Council of Australia. This is a body with great potential and deserves every encouragement - especially if it can convert antagonists into becoming protagonists in a common goal that will bring immediate benefits to labour as well as long-term benefits to managements. I have discussed the aims of the Council with its  Chairman. Mr Eric  Dunshea, and I am in accord with his view that productivity incentive must come from the top. (Extention of time granted.)  His  own example in dedication to duty within the Dunlop conglomerate, is one that many other top executives could well emulate.  Mr Dunshea,  I think, may have influenced the Government on the need for the retrain ing, and if need be, the relocation of workers who have become redundant as a consequence of technological changes in industry. In turn, I know that  Mr Dunshea  was greatly influenced by an address he once heard delivered by the Federal Secretary of the Waterside Workers' Federation,  Mr Charlie  Fitzgibbon, on the subject of containerisation. The Government deserves credit for having at long last taken the first timid step towards the re-training of redundant workers. 
This particular case demonstrates the advantages that come from the frank and friendly exchange of views. It shows that it is always possible to catch more flies with honey than with vinegar. If we are to allay the Luddite-like fears responsible for some of the union opposition to technological change, we must convince management of the need for prior notice and discussion with the unions concerned, whenever important changes are contemplated in production. Reasonable severance pay should be given to workers displaced, and. the Government should assume the responsibility for their retraining and relocation. If there had been proper discussions with the union prior to the introduction of one-man operated double-decker buses in Sydney a few days ago, that dispute may not have occurred. It is crass stupidity for management to spend huge sums of money for the introduction of new techniques and to wait until the new machinery is installed before bothering to discuss the matter with the unions concerned. It may not be a bad idea for the Department of Labour and National Service to meet the cost of sending union representatives overseas to study the new techniques of other countries, and to discuss these techniques with their union counterparts in those countries before a company commits itself to the cost of very expensive new plant. It is just as damaging to good industrial relations for unions to be oblivious of real dangers to working standards as it is for them to foster false fears of disadvantages that may never eventuate. 
Just as it is vital to develop frankness between management and labour, it is equally important to have frankness between the Government and the Parliament. This Government has not shown the frankness in debate and in answering questions that it should have done. It has behaved as though neither the Parliament, nor the Press, nor the general public, has any  Tight  to know more than the bare essentials of the real state of the nation. Let us always remember that we are members of a Parliament that is democratically elected to act in the best interests of the majority of all Australians. We are not members of the Maffia or some such oathbound secret society in which only the leading gangster can know the secret codes. 
When I say that much of this speech is based upon information grudgingly given, and sometimes upon information wilfully suppressed by the present Treasurer in answer to questions that I have placed on notice, the Prime Minister will realise that be was sadly mistaken when he told the Parliament on 17th March that the information sought by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitiam)  and me could be of no practical use to anyone. A refusal to answer a question is sometimes more significant than if a straightforward reply is given, because it usually means that the truth is too damaging to reveal. An honest government has no need to conceal the facts, and an honest Minister has no need to fear being pinned down on specific points. It is no answer to pretend that the unanswered questions call for involved and expensive research. A Fourth Division clerk could answer question No. 1907 which has been on the notice paper every sitting day since 24th September 1970. I refuse to believe that between them, the permanent head of the Department of Labour and National Service, his 13 Second Division officers and 600 Third Division officers do not know that the answer to that question is a simple yes. A senior officer who could not give a correct offthecuff answer to that question should not be retained in the Department. But when a Minister directs officers of his department to withhold information from the Parliament, for the reason that the truth would embarrass the Government, we have an even more serious situation on our hands - especially when he has the support of the Prime Minister himself. 
Let there be no misunderstanding about the nature of questions on notice. Such do not concern the questioner alone, for once a member places a question on the notice paper of the Parliament, that question, and the answer to that question, become the property of the whole Parliament. One member will not ask a question if another member already has the question on the notice paper. The whole Parliament is entitled to an answer to each and every question that appears on the public notice paper. To evade a question or to refuse to answer a question, or to give an incorrect or inadequate answer, is to cheat not only the particular member who asked the question, but to cheat the Parliament itself. Indeed, a Minister who cheats the Parliament is cheating the public and is, therefore, unfit for public office. I now propose to quote the text of a minute, which I believe was cleared by the Treasurer when he was Minister for Labour and National Service, for circulation in his Department last year. The text, which was signed by a senior officer, reads as follows: 

 Mr C. R. Cameron, M.P., who has now placed about 70 questions on the House of Representatives Notice Paper addressed to our Minister, has adopted the tactic when a question is answered of placing a further question on notice seeking to obtain further information in relation to the original question.  His  apparent objective is to pin the Minister down to specific points. 
The minute then goes on to explain standing orders 145 and 146 of the House of Representatives, and continues: 

 Mr Cameron is apparently well aware of standing order 146 because in most cases in asking a further question he avoids a specific reference to the earlier one. However, I would suggest that, in all appropriate cases, in future where  Mr Cameron  asks a further question seeking amplified information the reply from the Minister should be I have nothing to add to my answer to the honourable member's question number ( )....' 
I will say nothing, at this stage, about the rest of the minute. That will keep for another day. But here we have an open contempt of the Parliament. I repeat: No person can show contempt for the rights and privileges of one member of the Parliament without at the same time heaping contempt upon the rights and privileges of every member. Moreover, it is equally correct to say that parliamentary rights are inseverable from the rights of the whole of the Australian people. At the appropriate time I shall have something more to say on this incident. 
Finally, I want to make this point: The Liberal Party has now ruled this country continuously for the past 21 years. For 21 years it has made the laws, and for 21 years it has administered the laws without let or hindrance. Sf the law is bad it is because this Government is bad. If there is industrial chaos, the fault lies with this Government. If productivity is down, it is because this Government has proved itself incapable of getting better results. If the share of the gross national product which goes to the 4.5 million wage and salary earners is too low, it is because this Government has allowed too big a share to go to non-employees. And, if the spiral of inflation has got out of hand, it is because this Government has failed to govern the factors that cause inflation. Indeed, whatever is wrong in this country today is due to the failures of the party that has governed Australia continuously for the past 21 years. These wrongs cannot be remedied except by throwing out of office the government that has presided over their occurrence. 
Acrimony between labour and management is at an all-time high and is growing with each month that passes. The Government's decisions to collect fines imposed under an unjust and unacceptable law will only exacerbate the present situation. For all these reasons, I am now thoroughly convinced, as I am sure thinking members of the Parliament must be convinced, that this country cannot carry the dead weight of McMahonism for another 18 months. Australia needs a new government now - a government that can unite management and workers of this country, a government that can work with the people, not against them, for prosperity for all with justice to all. lt needs a Labor government. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker- 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
That the question be now put. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
What is the minumum weekly compensation payable under the Papua and New Guinea Workers' Compensation Ordinance to (a) an indigenous worker and (b) a European worker who becomes (i) temporarily and totally incapacitated and (ii) permanently and totally incapacitated. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the position of Director of Social Welfare, Northern Territory Administration, has no permanent occupant. 
If so, who is presently carrying out the duties of the position. 
Has his attention been drawn to a report in a recent edition of the 'Northern Territory News' that the headmaster of the Darwin High School is likely to be appointed to the position. 
Is the headmaster being considered for appointment; if so, what special qualification does the headmaster possess which would make him a suitable occupant of the position. 
Has the Public Service Board been asked to give a certificate in accordance with section 38 of the Public Service Act in relation to the position of Director of Social Welfare, Northern Territory Administration. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What was the increase, in money terms, ot consumer spending in each of the past 20 years. 
What was the increase in total amounts on loan by hire purchase companies during the same period. 
What was the total amount of gross profits made by hire purchase companies during the same period. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
How many people were killed or injured on the road each day during each of the last 5 years for which figures are available. 
Can he stale the number of deaths and drowning!) in domestic accident^ of all kinds in each year during the last 5 years for which figures are available. 
The honourable member is right. They have to be able to understand complicated machines but, in the main, that is the point I was making. Perhaps I have not made it very well. Engineers, fitters and turners are not the ones who understand these complicated machines; the technological experts, technicians, and sometimes even scientists are the ones who operate these very complicated machines, rather than fitters and turners. I thank the honourable member for his interjection because I feel sure it was made to help me bring out the point ( may not have made clearly enough. The Minister then went on to say that an obvious illustration of what will happen with technological change is to be found with computers. He said that computers now centralise accounts, and so they do. White collar workers will be more affected in the immediate future by computers than blue collar workers. White collar workers are certainly being more affected by computerisation now than blue collar workers are being affected by automation, (n addition there is a further difference, in that white collar workers today are finding it more difficult to get alternative employment than blue collar workers; fortunately at the moment, as blue collar workers are displaced by automation in one industry they are, due to the state of the labour market, able to find alternative employment. But this is not a situation which we should bank on continuing forever. It may not continue forever and the Minister is wise in taking now this precautionary step, as he describes it, so that he will not be caught unprepared if the demand for labour suddenly eases off, which is a situation which could easily develop. The scheme is precautionary, and should circumstances alter drastically, at least the Government will be in a position to start from the base it is now building. The Minister made a point on which 1 would like to comment when he said: 
A person may have to move his place of residence to a locality close enough to what he regards as suitable employment for his existing skills, for example, as happened with some specialised railway tradesmen when steam engines were replaced by diesels. 
This is a very good example in the blue collar field of how technological change affected the people to whom he refers, but it also reminds me that it was not only fitters and turners who were affected by this. On the Commonwealth railways long distances had to be travelled and with the steam engine it was necessary to refuel frequently and fill up with water. Consequently Commonwealth Railways had to station train crews along the Nullarbor Plain so as to relieve drivers as each engine completed its allotted course. This is no longer necessary with dieselisation. The rest houses have been done away with and engine drivers now drive much greater distances than they previously did. 
The Minister said that by definition the scheme will not be available to people who change jobs. I can understand this precaution being taken but I hope that it will not be taken in a draconic way so that no sympathy will be given to a worker who may foresee technological changes occurring and who may at that point of time have an opportunity of getting a suitable job which would not be there if he waited until he was actually retrenched as a consequence of the change that he could see coming. The Minister goes on to say: 
Excluded, for example, will be persons who change their jobs voluntarily for personal reasons, those declared redundant by decisions, following take-over action or changes in market conditions, to rationalise organisations or close down particular production sections or factories, and those retrenched from organisations because of the indirect effects of technological change elsewhere in the economy. 
I regret that these people are to be excluded. At least some of them should not be excluded. 1 can understand the Government saying: 'Even though we may like the idea, we cannot afford and have not the resources available for the retraining of every person who wants to change his job because so many people do want to change their jobs'. But surely when a person becomes redundant because of a takeover of an industry and, through no fault of his own and with no intention or desire on his part, finds that the job he is doing is no longer available, he should not be debarred from receiving the assistance which this scheme contemplates. The Minister also said: 
For people affected by technological change the scheme will bring opportunities to acquire new skills relevant to modern technology. 
I have spoken already about what is happening in the United States where people who are redundant because of technological changes are retired on a pension equal to their full salary. They are reemployed any time their services are needed. They are re-employed if employees are on sick leave or on annual leave. Perhaps this is the least that some of the more well-to-do industries should try to emulate. The Minister said: 
Applications for training will be invited from men and women who, as a result of technological change introduced directly . . . 
I take exception to that phrase. The Minister continued:   . . into the organisation employing there, have been retrenched or downgraded to a  job  of lesser status. 
What will happen in a company which, as a consequence of technological change, is in a position to take over another company and which, through technological changes in production methods, is able to make redundant all those employed in the company which it has taken over? Surely that kind of redundancy is as much the direct result of technological change as is any other kind of redundancy. The Minister continued: 
Applicants must be without prospects of immediate alternative suitable employment. 
Suitable employment' is almost an abstract term; its meaning could be almost subjective. If the definition of 'suitable employment' is not too vague and uncertain, I see no great exception to the provision because, as I said earlier, a person cannot expect to have the right to be retrained and relocated simply because he wants to take up another position, perhaps no different to his present position, which carries a few cents extra pay or which is closer to the school which his children attend or to some other facility that would make the position more convenient. That  h  not the intention of the scheme. 
I do not think 6 months is long enough to give a person to decide whether bs wants to take advantage of the scheme. I would like to think that when a person was retrenched it would be quite possible for him to try 2 or 3 different jobs before being retrained. When a person reaches middle age, the thought of having to be retrained is frightening. People who are retrenched should be given longer than the 6 months proposed here to make up their minds whether suitable employment is available. The Minister said: 
To avoid duplication, persons who are eligible for training under any more advantageous government training scheme, for example, national service, widows of ex-servicemen and so on, will not be taken into training under this scheme. 
The comment I make here is that the Government's scheme should not be inferior to other schemes. I would hope that the Government's scheme would be at least equal to the best scheme we have already for retraining people; for example, schemes for retraining widows or people from the Services. Under this scheme the Government proposes that there will be an unrestricted choice of occupations for which eligible persons may seek training, subject to 2 qualifications. Firstly, the training involved must be capable of completion within the maximum training period. That is 1 year with, in special circumstances, the right to have an additional year's extension. I put to the Government that, in the field of white collar work, where computerisation is playing such havoc with the number of people being employed, white collar workers cannot be easily retrained for a blue collar job. lt may be necessary, and it may be a good thing for the community, for the period of retraining to be extended. Women who were being displaced could be trained as nurses or as teachers because there is a great shortage of nurses and teachers. These women are not incapable of being trained as teachers or nurses. To limit the retraining period to 1 year, with an extension of 1 year, is, I think, quite unreal. 
The Government says it must be satisfied that employment within reasonable travelling distance of the person's chosen place of residence will be available immediately after the completion of training. Apparently, if there is no reasonable opportunity of getting employment in close proximity to the person's place of residence, that person will be disqualified from the retraining which the scheme proposes. Why does the Government not do what it has been forced to do already in the stevedoring industry, where not only retraining but also relocation was an issue? It will be necessary to relocate some people. The Government should be thinking of relocation for reasons other than redundancy. If it allows our big cities to get bigger it will have no hope of dealing with environmental problems. The Government should be thinking of new cities and new towns, as governments in Britain and in many other parts of the world have had to do. Relocation not only of the home but also of industries becomes necessary. Encouragement should be given to the relocation of industries. In Italy, for example, relocation of industries has been encouraged by the granting of taxation exemptions. In southern Italy now new industries are being set up. Calabria is a classic example. 
Alfa Romeo has set up a big industry only because of the taxation exemptions which it got by spreading or decentralising its industry. The Government should be thinking of adopting similar measures so that as people are displaced and retrained they can be relocated. 
I deal now with the matter of automatic approval. The Minister said that approval will not be automatic. I can see 2 arguments in relation to this matter. For example, we could not agree with the proposition that a poorly equipped technical school should be given automatic approval for retraining if nearby there was another technical school which was well equipped. To grant approval to the poorly equipped school would be absurd. If all the proposition had in mind was to guard against cases such as that, no-one could object to it. On the other hand, it may be a good thing if the Government let it be known that an institution which is prepared to go to the special trouble of catering for retraining programmes and which introduces special teaching devices for those programmes, would be given automatic recognition. We should say: 'If you care to take the trouble and go to the expense of equipping your institution for the retraining of people who have become redundant, the Government is prepared to grant automatic recognition of your institution'. At least this would have the advantage of giving the institution concerned the opportunity to plan ahead, knowing that it would not be caught in the future with great and extensive programmes for retraining and with no people to apply them to. 
I come again, as I must, to the short period that the Government has set aside for retraining - 12 months, with a possible extension of another 12 months. This is far too short a period for some cases. Earlier I mentioned teachers and nurses. But why cannot people who are prepared to take on part-time training be given the right to continue working in their usual industries, or in other industries, and do part-time courses in law, architecture or engineering? I have a friend in Adelaide, a young English migrant who came to Australia many years ago. He worked in a factory and did a part-time law course. After about 7 or 8 years he qualified, was admitted to the Bar and did exceptionally well. He was not a freak. He is typical of the ordinary, above average working man who can be found in scores and scores of industries today in Australia. We ought to recognise this fact. We ought not to treat as zombies people working in factories, or white collar workers employed as clerks, just because they happen to be engaged in those particular occupations. Many of them are in those jobs because opportunities were not available for them to do anything different. 
The Minister went on to say: 
Where entry to a training programme depends on additional educational qualifications, applications for the tuition necessary to acquire the pre-requisite qualifications may be considered up to a maximum of one year. 
Surely that period of time is too short. Consider the case of a person who wanted to join the Third Division of the Commonwealth Public Service. He would have no chance of getting into it until he matriculated. How can anybody expect to matriculate, no matter how bright he may have been at primary school level, in one year? Ye» that is what we would have to do if he wanted to gain any advantage from this scheme that we are talking about. I note that application forms for this retraining will be available through trade union offices. I am pleased to notice this. Although the Minister did not mention it, I hope that brochures explaining the scheme also will be available through trade union offices. 
I thank the Minister. This is quite a good thing. The Minister went on to make this point: 
Persons completing a training course will be assisted by the Commonwealth Employment Service in obtaining work corresponding to the skill and knowledge they have acquired. 
That is good, but will the Government guarantee that in these cases the re-employment will be at the proper award rates? I imagine it would because later in his statement the Minister alluded to this. He continued: 
Training costs will be borne by the Government and other financial assistance, including training allowances, will be available. 
At a later stage the Minister said that the maximum amount that will be allowed for books is $80. and that the trainees will be allowed fares to and from the training institutions. But he did not say that they will receive fares - indeed, rather did he say that they will not - in cases in which married trainees have to live away from home while undertaking full time training courses. I will use as an illustration the case of a married man in Port Augusta because I know the South Australian geography better. What will happen to a man employed at the Port Augusta railway workshops who is thrown out of work because of automation or some change in technology and who has to go to Adelaide, more than 200 miles away, to be retrained? Will he have to remain there for the full period of training, which is a year at least, without returning to his young wife in Port Augusta? If not, how often can he return to his wife? Who will pay the fares involved? He would not be able to afford to pay the fare out of his own wages because under this scheme he will not be allowed any more than $46.20 a week and he will be allowed only $10 a week for board and out of pocket expenses while in Adelaide. How on earth is this man going to carry out his marital duties if he is not permitted some reimbursement for fares? 
Probably the man will have to starve because man does not live by bread alone. Probably that is what would happen eventually. I notice that the subsidy will be payable only to employers providing training at the trainee's request through the Department. I hope that the approval of the union concerned will be sought. It would be a terrible thing if an employer noted for breaches of an award and for victimisation of union members were to be one of the people approved under this scheme. I hope also that one of the things that the Department of Labour and National Service will do - this is elementary - is to insist that persons undergoing training become members of the appropriate union. Nothing causes more disturbance in an industry than to have working in it people who will not join the appropriate union. More manhours are lost each year over disputes not involving wages than over wage disputes, and the majority of non-wage disputes relate to managerial policy. Close behind the number of man hours lost in that way is the number lost through demarcation disputes and the refusal of people to join unions. The Minister nodded approvingly of that statement and I hope he will look into this to ensure that a good scheme does not founder on this weakness or the failure to forecast the possible dangers that it could cause. 
I think the Minister was a realist when he said that the scheme 'is not expected to eliminate all difficulties which face people as new technologies are introduced'. That is true; it will not eliminate all of them but it will eliminate most of them. Perhaps the vast majority will be eliminated if the Minister continues to keep the open mind which it appears he had when he took over this portfolio. He will have to resist the pressures that will come from the National Employers Policy Committee which his predecessor did not resist. Rather it seems that his predecessor egged that committee on. The Minister will have to say to it: 'I appreciate the money you have given our Party at election times. It has been very helpful. But if we are to stay in office we cannot appear to be offering a deaf ear altogether to the trade union movement.'  His  predecessor did not do that. He seemed to think that you can win elections with donations to campaign funds. The trouble is that dollars do not vote, people do. That is what the Minister ought to remember. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How many cases of possible failure to register for national service has his Department investigated in the past S years. 
How many 20 year-olds have failed to obey the call-up. 
How many of those referred to in parts (1) and (2) have been (a) prosecuted and (b) convicted. 
How many of those investigated were found not to be in default of the Act. 
How many of those found to be in default of the Act have not been proceeded against. 
How many prosecutions have been (a) not proceeded with (b) dismissed and (c) withdrawn, and how many prosecutions are pending. 
How many investigations are still proceeding. 
asked the Attorney- 
General, upon notice: 
Does he propose to introduce  a  Bill to amend the Matrimonial Causes Act. 
If not, will the Government facilitate the consideration of a Bill introduced by a private member to eliminate apparent anomalies and injustices which can arise under the existing Act. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
When will debate be resumed on the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1970. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What is the estimated annual cost of paid sick leave throughout Australia. 
asked the Attorney- 
General, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that as a general rule the Courts will require an innocent husband to pay maintenance to an adulterous wife, pending suit, in cases where she denies adultery in her answer. 
Is it also a fact that as a general rule the Courts will not require an innocent husband to pay maintenance to an adulterous wife, pending suit, in cases where she is not willing to commit perjury in her answer. 
is there any provision in the Matrimonial Causes Act to require an adulterous wife who, by means of perjury, obtains maintenance pending suit, to refund to the husband all such moneys received. 
If not, is there any merit in amending the law in such a way as to take the profit out of perjury. 
asked the Attorney- 
General, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether the Matrimonial Causes Act permits a woman to leave her husband without just or lawful excuse and to engage in prostitution and become eligible in law to claim maintenance from her husband, pending suit, by the simple device of falsely declaring that she has not committed adultery. 
If so, does the Act or any other Act, make provision for any action to be taken against counsel who with full knowledge of these facts, becomes party to securing an agreement from the husband by fraudulent means and under duress, by which the husband is required to make a property settlement to his adulterous wife and to pay her maintenance while she is the de facto wife of another man. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether it is competent for a Judge of the South Australian Supreme Court to give an authoritative and binding ruling on the constitutional validity of the Supreme Court Act and the rules of South Australia to confer the judicial powers of the Commonwealth on non-judicial officers of the South Australian Supreme Court as was done in the case of Nicholls v. Nicholls (1962) 3 F.L.R. 478, when Chamberlain J. ruled that the Master of the 
Supreme Court of South Australia had power to make maintenance orders under the Matrimonial Causes Act. ! (2) Has the High Court considered this decision. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What percentage of industrial accidents result in (a) permanent total disability, (b) permanent partial disability, (c) temporary total disability and (d) temporary partial disability. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What amount has the Commonwealth spent in carrying out research and investigation in connection with industrial accidents and diseases in each of the last 5 years for which figures are available. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What amount has the Commonwealth spent in promoting safety rules for the prevention of industrial accidents and disease in each of the last 5 years for which figures are available. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What was the number of (a) fatalities, (b) permanent total disabilities, (c) permanent partial  disabilities, and (d) temporary disabilities resulting from industrial injuries in each of the last 5 years for which figures are available. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What was the total number of persons incapacitated as a consequence of industrial accident or disease in industries covered by (a) the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Act and (b) each of the other employees' compensation Acts in each of the last 5 years for which figures are available. 
What percentages of the persons affected by such industrial accidents or diseases were, as a consequence, absent from work for (a) 14 days and under, (b) 28 days and under, (c) 3 months and under and (d) 3 months or longer. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Can he give the percentage of all wage and salary earners who work for employers who act as their own insurers against workers' compensation. 
Is there any evidence to support the view that the incidence of industrial accident and disease is significantly lower in cases where the employer acts as his own insurer. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How many calendar' days were lost as a result of temporary disability only, due to industrial injuries, in each of the last 5 years for which figures are available. 
What was the average number of days lost per accident during the same period. 
How many days were lost on an actual age basis. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What is the difficulty in answering question No. 1907 which has appeared on the Notice Paper each sitting day since 24th September 1970. 
asked the Postmas ter-General, upon notice: 
What is the estimated total cost of replacing existing television receivers by colour receiving sets. 
What is the estimated total cost of converting existing telecasting stations to enable them to transmit their programmes in colour. 
 I refer to a matter of great national importance: The meeting held yesterday by the National Labour Advisory Council which did not finish until 1 o'clock this morning and could have thrown this nation into the greatest industrial confrontation that this country has ever seen. That would include the great maritime strike of 1890. It is quite clear that the Government had hoped that the NLAC would produce an impasse and create a political climate that would enable the Government to be re-elected in a situation which would normally not apply. The Government was bitterly disappointed. I pay tribute to the negotiating ability of the Australian Council of Trade Unions' team which represented the trade unions at that meeting. I pay tribute also to the common sense which prevailed among the employers' representatives at that meeting. 
Quite clearly the most disappointed party at the tripartite meeting of the NLAC was the Government. It obviously set out to push the employers and the ACTU into a costly and disastrous confrontation which could have cost as much as $100m each time the Government collected a fine of $1,000. The Government foolishly believes that such a situation would create a favourable political climate for its re-election in a snap election more than a year before this Parliament's term expires. Employers, however, are not willing to lose millions of dollars just to provide political profit for a stale, tired and arrogant Government that has held office continuously for 21 years and which knows that it faces certain defeat at the next election, no matter when the election is held. It must be defeated because the industrial unrest that now prevails flows directly from the Government's incompetence as an administrator and as a consequence of the failure of this Government's own laws to operate for the purpose for which they were designed. 
Altogether about $49,000 is outstanding in fines. Of this amount about $38,000 was imposed under the old legislation which even this Government eventually conceded had failed in its purpose and which was eventually repealed by the Parliament. Of the balance imposed under the new legislation some of the penalties are believed to have been imposed unlawfully by the Commonwealth Industrial Court. The validity of these penalties are almost certain to be tested in the High Court in the near future. This leaves only about $6,000 that can be said to have been imposed lawfully under the existing law. The employers have indicated that they see a distinction between the old fines, amounting to $38,000, which were imposed under the now defunct law and the fines imposed under the current law. My information is that most employers see some merit in the claim of the ACTU that the fines imposed under the now defunct law, repealed by the Parliament as being improper to be continued any longer, ought to be waived. 
The ACTU is bound by its congress decision to resist all fines imposed for strikes taken against arbitrary decisions imposed upon unions by the. Arbitration Commission, whether imposed under the new law or under the old law. But the House will see that there is now only about $6,000 altogether in unpaid fines that can be said to have been imposed validly under the. existing law. I believe that employers see no sense at all in the Government's plan to provoke a national strike each time fines of this magnitude are to be collected. They want a solution to industrial unrest. They do not want a continuation of the unrest which the Government's deliberate policy is designed to bring about. The employers know that the existing law has failed. They know that the Government has failed. They see great merit in the proposition of the ACTU for a close examination of the dew proposals recently put forward by the ACTU and recently recommended by the policy committee of the Australian Labor Party in Adelaide for the conference of that Party in June this year. 
The recommendations that have been put forward by the ACTU for the consideration of employers have the backing of the Australian Labor Party. When the next election is held, that will be the sort of reform which this country will see brought about. The proposal of the ACTU is reasonable. It ought to be considered properly and in depth. The Committee which recommended the proposal and which will be recommending the proposal to the next federal conference of the Australian Labor Party consists of 5 of the most powerful and influential industrial leaders in Australia. It is not some nondescript committee. It consists of  Mr Hawke;  the general secretary of the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations,  Mr 
Barney Williams;  Mr John  Egerton, one of the most powerful influences in the trade union movement in Queensland;  Mr Ray  Gietzelt, the general secretary of the third biggest union in Australia; and  Mr John  Ducker, the assistant secretary of the Labour Council of New South Wales and the State  president  of the Australian Labor Party. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  was present and concurrd with the recommendations that are to be put to the Federal Conference. 
So what  Mr Hawke  put to the conference of employers yesterday was a proposition that carries with it the endorsement of the Labor movement, politically and industrially subject to what the Conference does in June. I have not time to read it all out but 1 want to read the preamble to the proposition which was hammered out in Adelaide. It said: 
Good industrial relations will be best achieved by agreements initially arrived at between trade unions and employers. Such agreement should contain provisions to ensure their observance by parties to them. The provisions most likely to be effectivein this regard will vary according to the circumstances and history of the industrial situation within which the agreement is negotiated. As a guide to parties negotiating industrial agreements the following provision would be appropriate for inclusion. In the case of a breach by an employer or by a union or by employees at the direction or with the concurrence of the union,$500; such amount shall be recoverable only at the suit of the employer orunion as the case may be in civil proceedings. 
Then follows a detailed list of principles which it is believed will ensure the success of such a proposal and which, unfortunately, lack of time prevents me from reading. It is nothing new for the ACTU to see that agreements made under its auspices are carried out. Some ofthese agreements already contain enforcement provisions. For example, let me quote the headlines from a newspaper today in relation to the stewards strike on ships servicing Tasmania, which strike has been lifted as a direct consequence of  Mr Hawke's  intervention in which he pointed out to the stewards that they were bound by an agreement to exempt the Tasmanian and Weipa trade from disputes of this kind. The Union immediately responded and lifted the strike so far as Tasmania and Weipa were concerned. 
Another instance of ACTU intervention in settlement of a dispute covered by an agreement occurred earlier this year when 

 Mr Hawke again used his influence to settle a wool dumping dispute involving storemen and packers in Brisbane. The present system injects an adversary element into disputes which, in many cases, could have been settled amicably if the penal props could be kicked away from the unreasonable employers and replaced by the kind of face to face frankness in industrial relations which  Mr Hawke,  the ACTU and the ALP advocate. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard the policy statement that was issued after the meeting at which the tripartite statement was issued yesterday. 
STATEMENT ISSUED AT THE CONCLUSION OF MEETING OF NLAC 21 ST APRIL 1971 
The employers and ACTU members of NLAC agreed that representative tripartite discussions concerning the operation of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act should begin as soon as possible and should embrace the question of sanctions including the ACTU suggestion of the desirability of investigating the adoption of a system of voluntary agreements to regulate the relations between employers and unions outside the legislation including, if desired, by the parties, provisions for their enforcement. 
In the light of the agreement previously arrived at between the employers and the unions as to appropriate guidelines to be followed in the settlement of industrial disputes and parties emphasised the desirability of unions and employers adhering to these provisions, particularly during the period which would be involved in the above discussions. 
While the employers reiterated their belief that sanctions are necessary and the ACTU emphasised the immorality in its view of any sanction, it emerged during today's discussions that a strong case could be made out for waiver of the fines imposed under the former provisions of Section 109 and 111 of the Act. 
In putting the over all position of their beliefs as to the immorality of any sanctions, the representatives of the ACTU pointed cut that in any event on legal ground it appeared that something like $4,000 of the $10,200 arising under the amended legislation was invalidly imposed, and this will probably be the subject of a challenge in the High Court. The ACTU representatives said it was unrealistic to speak of the necessity to collect $6,000 in fines and the next best context for undertaking the discussions referred to in paragraph (1) would involve the government putting aside the question of collecting while these discussions continued. 
The employers were unable to associate themselves with this view and in these circumstances the ACTU and the employers understood that the government will need to decide on its course of action. For their part, the Treasurer and the Minister for Labour and National Service - 
Acknowledged that because of agreement between the employers and ACTU members of NLAC the representative tripartite discussions referred to in paragraph (1) should proceed. Though of course without commitment on the part of government to acceptance of the outcome; 
Noted the points of view of the ACTU and the employers about the distinction between old and new fines; 
Reiterated that the decision on the enforcement of fines is, and must be a decision for government. The Ministers further pointed out that it is of paramount importance that the Australian Arbitration system be maintained. The Government has this duty in order to sustain good industrial relations in the public interest. 
I am sorry that I cannot refer to all of that statement, but these references are important: The statement indicates that the employers have now undertaken to meet the ACTU and to examine in depth the proposition that  Mr Hawke  and the Australian Labor Party have put forward; it indicates that it sees a distinction between the old fines and the new fines. The Government, I am told, indicated its disappointment by stating that, whilst it had no way of stopping the ACTU and the employers from continuing these negotiations, it considers it of paramount importance that the arbitration system be maintained. We agree with that. But- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti) 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I move: 
That the ruling be dissented from. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: - (1) Is he able to say how many State inspectors in New South Wales, ' Western Australia and Tasmania are not authorised to inspect under federal awards. . 
Why are State- inspectors in .Queensland, South Australia and Victoria not authorised to inspect under federal awards. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Are all of the guidelines set out in International Labour Convention No. 121 being applied by the Commonwealth (a) within the Commonwealth and (b) within the Territory of Papua New Guinea. 
 As I said I second the motion. I hope that the House will carry the motion to suspend the. Standing Orders so that we might refer the matter of question time to the Standing Orders Committee. The mover of the motion is not asking the Parliament to give a judgment on whether the Standing Orders have been abused or, if they have been abused, to give a judgment as to who is responsible for it. The motion merely states that the present Standing Orders insofar as they relate to question time are quite unsatisfactory. If honourable members think that the Standing Orders, as they relate to question time, are satisfactory and are satisfied with the way in which the Standing Orders are used at question time, they ought, as do so many hundreds of thousands of people, to listen to the Parliament in operation at question time I have done so. The way this Parliament behaves at question time is a disgrace to any institution, more so to . the . most responsible and highest institution within the democratic structure of this country. Any member who can listen to the Parliament at question time and feel proud of being a member of Parliament is easily pleased and must have had an extraordinary background. 
There is an example. Interjections come from honourable members who, on the surface, appear to be quite well groomed and well mannered but who in practice when they are put to the test are not able to measure up to their appearances. The real reason why question time is out of hand is that Ministers are abusing question time by having Dorothy Dixers prepared by their supporters in the Liberal Party so that they will have the opportunity to give prepared answers that appear not to be prepared. This gives the appearance to the Parliament and to their colleagues that they are extraordinarily efficient in their departments when, in point of fact, Ministers who must do this are admitting by their acts that they are inefficient. 
It came to my notice only at the weekend that the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  has actually sent a memo to the officers of his Department - this is a most extraordinary thing, and if he is listening to the broadcast of the proceedings now I would like him to enter the debate and answer this statement - telling them that, instead of feeding information into the Minister as has always been the custom in the Departments- 

 - Mr Speaker, I am sorry for what I said about you the other day and if you feel that you have to even up I. withdraw it. It is not possible for me to deal with the abuse of question time- 
If we could change places,  Mr Speaker,  I might have a better chance of speaking, seeing that you are making the major contribution to the debate. We are trying to get Standing Orders which will permit people who have something to say to do so. I am saying that question time is so gravely abused by Ministers that this subject ought to be referred to the Standing Orders Committee. This is the reason why the Opposition is asking for .the suspension of Standing Orders. It is for this very reason that we are asking that this whole matter be referred to the Standing Orders Committee. When we have a Minister who will tell his public servants to act as political ciphers in order that that Minister may be built up in the eyes of Parliament as an efficient Minister when in fact he evidently is a very inefficient one- 
That so much of the Standing Orders be - suspended as would prevent the moving of a motion to refer to the Standing Orders Committee the question of the time to be allowed for questions without notice. 
If the motion is carried, I think that the honourable member for Hindmarsh would be in order in speaking in the way in which he has been speaking. At this stage, the motion before the Chair seeks the suspension of Standing Orders. 

 - Mr Speaker, that is the sort of ruling that I thought you would have given earlier. I would like to say this: The debate which will decide who is culpable will follow agreement to this motion. This motion does not seek to do that. At this stage we are asking the Parliament merely to acknowledge the fact that the public is sick and tired of the infantile way in which the Parliament itself has been forced to carry on or has been induced to carry on by the Ministry at question time. It is a disgrace. It is time that we looked at ourselves. It is time that the Standing Orders Committee met to decide what can be done to make the Parliament act more responsibly than it has. If honourable members vote against the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders which will enable that simple thing to be done, all I can say is that they are easily satisfied and that the public outside will consider that they are easily satisfied too. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as will prevent the honourable member for Hindmarsh moving a motion for the establishment of a select committee to inquire into and report upon proposals made by employees and employers organisations and other interested parties for the modernisation of the Commonwealth's industrial laws. 
It is now quite obvious that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has no interest in this subject and that he does not intend to allow the Parliament to have any interest in it. He will not allow us to debate the matter and he will not bring down a Bill himself. He will not allow me to have the necessary staff and parliamentary counsel to prepare a Bill that 1 could bring down. 
I wrote a letter to the then Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  on this matter some time ago. 
Well, at least that is a start. So far, he has done nothing about this. This is a pretty important matter. I could produce, on behalf of the Opposition, an amendment to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act that would give us a system of industrial laws which would enable employer interests and employee interests to work in harmony. Apparently, the Government cannot do this or, if it can, it will not do it. I think the sincere hope of the Government is that there will erupt in this country a confrontation between the employers and the employees so that the Government can gain, or so it thinks, some political mileage from the climate that will follow such a confrontation. lt is unfortunate for the Prime Minister that the Opposition has foreseen the plan that the Government has put in motion. The Opposition has alerted the Australian people to what the Government is proposing. The employers are not laughing at the idea of having a strike just for the sake of allowing the Government to create a climate that will assist it to be re-elected, because the employers figure it out this way: 'If the Government's laws are responsible for the present chaos, and we re-elect the Government that is responsible for the unworkable laws, we can resolve nothing by reelecting it. They could only resolve the situation that has crept upon Australia by putting into power another party that will have some new, modern ideas for dealing with industrial relations'. 
I will give some examples of how this Government has neglected its duties to the people of Australia. More than 10 years ago the Commonwealth Industrial Court found that the section of the law dealing with the victimisation of employees by employers was defective. The Court pointed out that it was illegal to threaten to sack a person for being a member of a union but that it was perfectly lawful to sack a person for being a member of a union provided the sacking was not accompanied by a threat. It was such a ridiculous proposition that one would have thought that this Government which has altered the Act several times since that judgment was made, would have taken the first opportunity at least to amend that section of the Act. Nothing has been done. 
The High Court had occasion to draw attention to another defect in the Act concerning the registration of eligibility rules of unions where the eligibility rules which were sought to be registered conflicted with the description of industry for which the union was registered. No less an authority than the High Court drew the attention of the Government to what appeared to be a defect in the law. Nothing whatever has been done to correct that defect in spite of the fact that the Government has had ample opportunity. Many years ago the Industrial Court held that it was illegal for a union to include a rule in its rule book which required a member to give written notice of his intention to resign from the union. The Court pointed out the ridiculous situation that would flow from the law as it then stood - and as it now stands - by saying that a person could purport to communicate by telephone and later declare on oath that he spoke to somebody announcing his intention to resign. Provided that was done the union had no further claim upon the employee. 
These matters have been brought to the attention of the previous Minister for Labour and National Service but he was so busy fluttering his eyelashes on television that he did not bother to attend to them. I hope that the present Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  is taking more notice of what I am saying than he appears to be. 
On the question of demarcation the High Court has ruled that as the law now stands there is no power for a State industrial court or the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to settle a dispute arising out of demarcation between the members of a State registered union and members of a State branch of a Federal union. This matter has been brought to the attention of the Government by me by way of questions on the notice paper but still nothing has been done about it. The question of dealing with management policy has caused more lost time than most other issues. More time has been lost through non-wage disputes than through wage disputes. Although I have pointed out this fact to the Government by way of questions on the notice paper nothing has been done about the matter. In 1969 about 750,000 man hours were lost over disputes concerning the penal provisions. Fewer than 600,000 hours were lost over wage claims and some 500,000 man hours, were lost over the question of management policy. But the law as it now stands, according to the High Court, does not permit Arbitration Commissioners or the Arbitration Commission to settle any dispute that relates to management policy. 
Disputes over management policy amount to about one-third of all disputes. If there is almost as much time lost over disputes on management policy as there is on wage disputes surely to God we ought to get on with the job and correct that defect in the law. The High Court has spent the last 60 years telling the Arbitration Commission what it cannot do. It has brought down scores and scores of ridiculous restrictive interpretations of the industrial powers of the Commonwealth to the point where this Parliament is now no longer able to legislate to deal with disputes in a. sensible manner. It has interpreted 'industrial matters' to mean that the person who sells fire insurance can be covered but the fireman who puts out the fire cannot be covered. A school teacher employed by a private school can be covered, but not a school teacher employed by a state instrumentality. Policemen cannot be covered. A nurse cannot be covered if she is employed in a government hospital, but she can be covered if she is working in the first aid room of a private factory. How much longer are we to have this ridiculous situation? 
Let me refer to interstate disputes. A demarcation dispute cannot be dealt with if it happens in South Australia unless, at the same time, another State is called out in order to make it an interstate dispute. 
Even then the difficulty is not overcome, because the High Court has made yet another decision stating that a dispute does not exist unless the matter was referred to in the original log of claims served on the parties when the dispute was first created. What does this mean? It means that, if unions prepare sensible logs of claims that represent a reasonable approach to a problem and the cost of living goes up and the standard wages are increased in the meantime, they are no longer able to bring the original log of claims within the scope of the new situation and must serve a fresh log of claims. 
In the pastoral industry, where there are 18,000 employers to be served, the cost of service and printing and all the other incidental expenses would be quite astronomical. What a ridiculous situation it is. What do the unions do now? There is only one thing left that they can do, and that is to make their original log of claims in regard to wages so high, the standard hours so low and all the other conditions so extravagant that, no matter what happens in the meantime by way of trends in industry or as the result of Arbitration Commission decisions, they will still , be within the ambit of their original. claims. This is the reason for most of the .trouble today. A union that is forced to put in a claim for $200 a week, for a 25-hour week and for other things, such as . treble time for overtime, in order to keep its .original claim within the ambit, finds that its members become dissatisfied when they are not able to get from the Arbitration Commission the things which the. union was forced to claim in the first instance; otherwise it finds itself out of ambit. 
The Arbitration Commission is not to blame for a lot of the trouble we have today. A lot of our trouble is to be laid at the doorstep of the High Court rather than of the Arbitration Commission. How can anybody blame the Arbitration Commission if discontent follows when a union is forced to claim $200 a week and a 25- hour or 30-hour week in order to keep within ambit and to avoid finding itself out of court when some change in events takes place? When the 40-hour week.. was introduced every union that had a claim for the previous 44-hour week to be continued had to serve the respondents afresh. Nobody can justify that kind of situation. 
I want to turn now to other matters. In this country we need more conciliation and less arbitration. What we need is the establishment of conciliation committees, once proposed by the Scullin Government but declared by the High Court to be illegal, thus preventing this method of settling disputes from being introduced. What we need in place of the adversary system which our present arbitration laws impose upon us is the face to face frankness which can come only from conciliation committees. But it has to be remembered that, when the High Court decided in 1930 that conciliation committees were illegal or unconstitutional because they became part of the Arbitration Court as it then was, it pointed out - it was correct in doing so - that a conciliation committee could not exercise judicial powers without being outside the scope of the Constitution. 
This Government has allowed the boilermakers case of F956 to change drastically the set-up of the . Arbitration Commission so that the Commission is no longer a judicial body. There has been no excuse since 1956, when the Court was separated from the Commission, for not reintroducing the conciliation committees as proposed by the Scullin Government in 1930. What the present Government ought to do is make provision for the appointment of arbitrators agreed upon by both parties to a dispute who are prepared to agree in advance that they will accept the decision of the arbitrator. What we have had in the past, however, is people like Dunphy deciding what the award rates shall be and what the decision shall be. Is it any wonder that employees are not prepared to accept that kind of so-called arbitration? Of course not. 
Now I want to refer to another matter of tremendous importance. If the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  will stop writing and listen to what I have to say on this matter we might all derive some benefit. More than 2 years ago there was a famous case, known as the Moore v. Doyle case, in which the Commonwealth Industrial Court held that where a union was properly registered in a State court it could not purport to be a State branch of the Federal union. In the case of Moore v. Doyle it was found that what was always believed to be the New South Wales Branch of the Transport Workers Union - that is, the Federal union - was not a branch of the Federal union at all but was a separate State union with its own separate personality and corporate status. The union, as a consequence, lost the whole of its New South Wales Branch. The New South Wales Branch took all the property which had previously been thought to be the property of the Transport Workers Union's Federal body. 
The same position was found to exist in the Steuart case. The Queensland branch of the Australian Workers Union is quite clearly now not a member of the Federal body but is a State body with its own standing. The same is true of the West Australian and South Australian branches of that organisation. The only 2 States where this sort of situation can be avoided are Tasmania and Victoria, where there are not any means by which a State branch of a Federal body can secure State registration. Unless this matter is settled quickly the whole structure of the trade union movement will collapse, and with it must collapse the arbitration system as. well. Does the Government not care what happens to the structure of the trade union movement? If it does not care, I have some news for it: The employers do care. The employers want a representative body of employees to be operating and functioning in a healthy manner and so able to deal with the employers in a responsible way. 
The last major overhaul of the arbitration system took place in 1947 when Ben Chifley introduced the conciliation commissioners, streamlining arbitration for the very first time. He gave us a system that worked better than it had ever worked since the days of  Mr Justice  Higgins. Nothing further was done until the boilermakers case in 1956 forced the Government to separate the functions of the Arbitration Commission from those of the Court and established the Commonwealth Industrial Court in place of the old Arbitration Court. Apart from doing that and introducing the penal clauses in 1951, this Government has done nothing to look at the arbitration system and examine it in depth. The penal clauses will not work. We know that they will not work. The penal clauses are supposed to work not only against strikes but also against action by the employers in committing lockouts. What happened in Broken Hill where there was a lockout recently? What happened with the lockout at Mount Isa? Nothing at ali was done. 
Indeed, the Minister has told me in reply to a question on notice that not once since the arbitration system was introduced into this country in 1904 has an employer been fined or prosecuted in respect of a lockout. This does not mean that there have hot been lockouts. What about the famous lockout by J. A. Brown and Co. in the coalfields? Nothing was done. The Minister admitted, in reply to a further question I asked him, that there is no way by which the anti-lockout laws that now exist as the counterpart of the anti-strike laws can be used to force an employer to employ a person at rates of pay which the employer considers to .be uneconomic. If the Arbitration Commission fixes rates of pay which any employer believes to be uneconomic, that employer can close his factory completely, close a part of it or retrench some of his employees, and there is nothing we can do about it. Indeed, there is nothing we ought to be able to do about it, because the Arbitration Commission has no right to impose upon an employer rates of pay that are' uneconomic, and similarly, it has no right to impose upon unions and employees rates of pay that are below the market value of thenlabour. 
If it is not to be possible in practice to force employers to employ people at rates of pay that they consider to be uneconomic, no attempt ought to be made to force employees to accept employment at rates of pay which they consider to be uneconomic or at least below the market value of their labour. If the employers have the right to get the maximum market value for the things they sell, the employees have the right to get the maximum market value for the things that they sell. We have heard talk about strikes creating an unnatural demand for the things that the employee has to sell, but there is no difference between strike action and the restrictive trade practices used by sellers of goods to get the highest price that the restricted market will yield. What is the purpose of all the takeovers of Australian companies by foreign companies but to create an unnatural restriction of supply? 
There are 4i million employees in Australia who rely directly or indirectly on the decisions of the Arbitration Commission. If those decisions are not sound decisions and are not working- in a way that will guarantee peace in industry, 4i million people, their families and people dependent upon them will suffer. Every time this Government attempts to collect the fines that it insists upon, imposing upon unions for merely seeking to obtain the market value of the things they have to sell, it cannot blame anybody but itself if, as a consequence of its blind, pigheaded and mule-like determination to create industrial unrest, there is a loss to the Australian gross national product each day of anything up to $100m.: If the whole work force' becomes regimented behind the demand for the repeal -of the: penal clauses, a general stoppage by- the work force of Australia will cost $100m- for each day it is in operation. Can the Government justify this sort of chaos and this kind of economic ruin in order just to. try to create deliberately the kind of political climate that it thinks might assist it in winning a few votes? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock) Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I move: 
That the honourable member for Werriwa be granted an extension of time. 
What is wrong with you, saying 'no'?I am moving a motion for an extension of time. It is no good you saying 'No'. We have to have a vote on it. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Clyde Cameron's)  be agreed to. 
Well, I now move: 
That the Speaker's ruling be dissented from. 
I move: 
That the honourable member for Corio be heard. 
Debate interrupted. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What percentage of road accidents result ins 
permanent total disability, 
permanent partial disability, 
temporary total disability and 
temporary partial disability 
 Then,  Mr Speaker,  I dissent from your ruling. I move: 
That the ruling be dissented from.  (Mr Clyde Cameron having submitted his motion in writing) 
-It grieves me to have to do this not only because I know it will embarrass you,  Sir, but  because it will be pretty galling to my good self to have to draw the attention of the House once again to the fact that you appear - I say only 'appear' - to be protecting the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  from answering, as he ought to be required to answer, the very serious charges that have been levelled against him by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  Throughout this chamber and in the lobbies there is discontent from both sides of the Parliament, particularly from the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  who is looking at his passport and getting ready, I understand, for another overseas trip. But, whenever he gets the opportunity to match his very brave words with his vote, he always finds some excuse. 
 I want to protest at the beginning about the way in which this Bill is being pushed through without an opportunity for the Opposition te deal with this matter properly. I have been studying workers compensation now for about 15 years, and I prepared material for a speech which would have taken me longer to deliver than the total time which the Government has allowed the whole House to deal, with this matter. For this reason therefore I will be obliged to reduce what I have to say to  a  bare minimum. At the beginning I want to pay a tribute to the members of the relevant Opposition committee - the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Fester),  the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb),  the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick),  and to the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson),  and to the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett)  who has given so much attention to this matter and who has assisted me so greatly. 
I have to pay great tribute also to  Mr Paul  Munro, the Secretary of the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations, to  Mr George  Slater, the General Secretary of the Postal Workers Union, to  Mr Frank  Waters, the Federal  President  of that body, the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  and to  a  lot of other people who gave up their time willingly to assist us in this matter. I would be remiss and ungrateful if I did not mention the work which was put into the amendment that I will move in Committee by the parliamentary counsellor,  Mr Jeff  Kolts, who at weekends came to my home and worked late  into the night and who willingly and courteously co-operated with my committee. to help us to prepare ah amendment that was comprehensive enough to cover all of the points on which we differ with the Government. 
The Government's Bill is much better than the Bill which the former Treasurer,  Mr Bury,  introduced last year. I express my thanks to the present Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  who is now in charge of this field of activity on the Government side for his co-operation in dealing with amendments. He has accepted, I think, 15 of them. It is unusual to find a Minister who is prepared to be  a  Minister and not a mere rubber stamp for the Cabinet. He is prepared to use his own intelligence in deciding whether  a  proposition is fair and reeasonable, and when he thinks it ought to be accepted he has proved that he is prepared to do so. I want to thank him also for being willing to appoint an interdepartmental committee to deal with those points on which he cannot readily agree. Although he is not necessarily opposed to them, he has expressed an opinion that time does not permit him to give the proposals the consideration that they would need to have. 
Before I deal point by point with the defects in the Bill, I request the Minister for Social Services to give his personal attention to seeing that the regulations are drawn up as quickly as possible so that the whole of the Bill can be brought into operation without delay. The present proposal is that only a portion of the Bill will be proclaimed in the immediate future and that the balance will need to await the proclamation of regulations to give effect to the machinery clauses. It is no use proposing a great step forward in Commonwealth employees compensation if the step is never taken or is delayed. 
I thank the Minister for that assurance. Woe betide the counsellors now if they try to find some excuse for not doing it because I know that the Minister will guarantee that that assurance given in the chamber, so close to the Despatch Box, will be carried out. 
The Government's Bill unfortunately does not cover the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory insofar as privately employed persons are concerned. I would like to have seen the Government introduce a Bill that would give to everybody in the Australian Capital Territory and in the Northern Territory the same benefits as are enjoyed by other employees over whom this Parliament has the right of legislation in respect of compensation. I know that ordinances can be brought in to make those conditions correspond with what is provided in this legislation, but it seems to me to be a clumsy way of doing the business to have an ordinance to cover the Northern Territory, another separate ordinance to cover the Australian Capital Territory, and a separate Act of Parliament to cover seamen and other Acts of Parliament to cover other classes of employees who are. referred to in the legislation being considered in this cognate debate. It seems wrong also that the people who are not covered in any of these Bills or in any ordinance - I refer to people such as air pilots operating interstate and, for that matter, waterside workers engaged in interstate trade or commerce - are excluded from the provisions of this Bill. 
This Bill is now the second best piece of compensation legislation in the Commonwealth. Only the South Australian Act surpasses it. Insofar as that Act relates to weekly payments, it would be my hope that the South Australian provision would be one of the things that the interdepartmental committee would see fit to adopt. The provision in South Australia does not go as far as I would like to see it go. It provides, however, a maximum of $65 per week. Under the South Australian Act, a married man who receives $65 or less a week will obtain compensation on a no loss of earnings basis. It is only proper that we should one day reach the point where we can accept this principle of no loss of earnings as the proper and normal basis for compensation per week to people who are incapacitated through injury at work. I notice, in the 'Encyclopaedia Britannica', that the Soviet Union, Yugoslavia, the Argentine, Brazil and Mexico already have compensation payable on the basis of 100 per cent rate benefit in their normal wages. Some of the Scandinavian countries achieve the same result through social services or social welfare. This, I believe, is the correct way of tackling the whole problem. 
I have been impressed by a report delivered by the Royal Commission on Compensation for Personal Injury in New Zealand. I wish to quote, if I may, an extract from the report of that Commission, which was delivered by  Mr Justice  Woodhouse, an eminent member of the Supreme Court of New Zealand whom I have the privilege of knowing very well. He said this: 
The toll of personal injury is one of the disastrous incidents of social progress, and the statistically inevitable victims are entitled to receive * co-ordinated response from the nation as a whole. They receive this only from the health service. For financial relief they must turn to three entirely different remedies, and frequently they are aided by none. 
The negligence action is a form of lottery. In the case of industrial accidents it provides inconsistent solutions for less than one victim in every hundred. The Workers' Compensation Act provides meagre compensation for workers, but only if their injury occurred at their work. The Social Security Act will assist with the pressing needs of those who remain, provided they can meet the means test. All others are left to fend for themselves.. 
Such a fragmented and capricious response to a social problem which cries out for co-ordinated and comprehensive treatment cannot be good enough. No economic reason justifies it. It is a situation which needs to be changed. This is the general theme of this report and the short summary of it which follows in the next 17 paragraphs. 
Every person interested in workmen's compensation and all the social questions that must be answered when people are injured at work should read every word of this report. The learned judge goes on to say: 
Injury arising from accident demands an attack on three fronts. The most important is obviously prevention. Next in importance is the obligation to rehabilitate the Injured. Thirdly, there is the duty to compensate them for their losses. The second and third of these matters can be handled together, but the priorities between them need to  be stressed because there has been a tendency to have them reversed. No compensation procedure can ever be allowed to take charge of the efforts being made to restore a man to health and gainful employment. 
This Royal Commission recommended that every person injured at work or on the road or in the home should receive compensation provided that it does not exceed $120 a week.  Mr Justice  Woodhouse told me only a few weeks ago that, since the report was brought down in 1967, the intention of the Commission was that the new rate should be related to the cost of living index at the present time compared with what it was when it recommended a maximum of $120 a week. 
Unfortunately, there is nothing in the Government's Bill that deals with the method of preventing accidents. This is a terribly important thing. True, the Minister has proposed vocational training for those who are injured in order to get them back to work again. That is an excellent objective. But nothing is said about the prevention of accidents. The amendment that I propose to move does provide a clause which allows the Government to make regulations for the purpose of ascertaining the incidence and causation of accidents and for recommending steps to be taken to ensure that accidents can be prevented. The relevant part of my amendment states: 
The Government is authorised to make provision for and in relation to the holding of an inquiry into the incidence, causes and the means of prevention of injuries suffered by employees in connection with their employment and for giving effect to any recommendations made by the person holding the inquiry. 
I am sorry that the Minister has not seen fit to do the same thing in this Bill. When we look at what is happening in the world today, what we see must cause us great concern. We just cannot close our eyes to this problem of accident occurrence in industry. It is causing too much loss of life and limb, and is causing, as a secondary consideration, too much loss of production. In Australia, according to the publications of the National Safety Council, we have one of the highest industrial accident rates in the world. Furthermore, the National Safety Council argues that the cost to the community of these accidents is at least $500m per annum and could be as high as $700m or $800m. When one looks at a later statement issued by the National Safety Council, one sees that the Council estimates that the nation's loss due to industrial accidents and disease is probably nearer to $ 1,000m a year. This represents a little more than 2 per cent of our gross national product. It is just not good enough for a government to pretend that this problem does not exist. 
Some of the companies in Australia are doing an excellent job in this regard. The Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, for example, has greatly reduced the loss of time through accidents at its works. It has reduced the incidence from 50.2 per 1 million man hours to 3.4 per 1 million man hours, a total reduction of 93 per cent. At the company's Port Kembla works, the accident frequency rate fell from 37 in 1945 to 10 per cent of that figure in 1961. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard a table showing the improvement in the frequency rate of accidents in various other Australian companies. 

<graphic href="072131197105063_52_0.jpg"></graphic>

Our nation cannot afford the needless loss of skilled workmen and our experience in accident prevention has shown us that we can reduce industrial injuries to a fraction of what they are now. I know that the Minister is not unmindful of the need to deal with this important question of accident prevention. Knowing him is I do - I have my differences with him on certain subjects  -  I know that once he sticks his teeth into something he will leave his mark on the history of this country in relation to it. Now that he has had his attention drawn to the great need for accident prevention I am certain that he will be wanting to do something about it. In order to expedite proceedings and to avoid being forced to leave out any more of my speech than is necessary, with the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard the aims of a United States Bill of 1969 which, I believe, could equally be applied to the Australian scene. 
by establishing mandatory occupational safety and health standards applicable to businesses affecting commerce; 
by providing for the effective enforcement of such safety and health standards; 
by providing tor research relating to occupational safety and health; 
by providing, tor training programmes to increase and improve personnel engaged in the field of occupational safety and health; 
by more clearly delineating the responsibilities of the Federal Government and the States in their activities related to occupational safety and health; 
by providing grants to the States to assist them in idenitfying their needs and responsibilities in the aiea of occupational safety and health, to develop plans in accordance with the provisions of this Act, and to conduct experiments and demonstration projects in connection therewith; and 
by providing for appropriate accident and health reputing procedures which will help achieve the objectives of this Act. 
I turn now to a. comparison of this Bill with the Opposition's amendment. The Bill is deficient because in my opinion it fixes weekly compensation rates at a figure that Is too low. It fixes a rate of $35 for an unmarried man. $43.50 for a married man and $48.50 for a married man with one child, plus another $5 for each additional child, or the employee's average weekly earnings, whichever is the lesser; whereas under the Opposition's amendment the weekly compensation payment to a person who is totally incapacitated is equal to the full earnings, whether he is married or single. Let us take the case of a married man with one child. All he will receive is $48.50; yet the average weekly wage in Australia today is $84.80. So this person will lose approximately $36 a week. He is a married man with a child to maintain, house payments to keep up, medical benefit subscriptions to pay and all the ordinary expenses to meet. Let us make no mistake about this. 
Any person on the average weekly wage in Australia is budgeting his household and living expenses in accordance with what he earns. There is nothing over at the end of the week. How then can a person whose budgeting has become so closely linked with his income be expected in times of sickness to suddenly reduce his budget from $84 to $48? It cannot be done and it is quite unreasonable to expect it to be done. Let us consider other countries such as; to mention the ones I have already spoken of, Mexico, Argentina, the Soviet Union and Bulgaria. We should not be prepaied to admit that we cannot do as well as these countries can. Australia is one of the richest countries in the world and we should aim at nothing less than those countries are able to achieve. We should try to emulate the wonderful proposition which has been put forward by a royal commission in New Zealand. There a select committee of the Parliament has been appointed and is recommending that the first step towards the objectives set by the royal commission should be given effect to this year. Wc should not do anything less than that. We should be standing out as the country in the world,, particularly in the southern hemisphere, which leads all. other countries. 
The Bill provides that no lump sum is payable to an employee in respect of a schedule injury where the employee becomes totally incapacitated and qualifies for weekly payments. The Labor Party does not accept this as a proper basis for compensation. It believes that an employee who suffers the loss of 2 eyes, 2 legs, his genitals or his capacity to engage in sexual intercourse ought to be compensated for the loss of social enjoyment and the pain and suffering endured through the loss of those things. If the injury causes total incapacity, such an employee ought to receive weekly payments as well as the lump sum. If common law action were taken for damages, the court would assess damages on that basis. We should be doing the same with compensation, so that compensation ceases to be something that can be paid at a figure lower than that which the court will give  where negligence can be proved. All accidents should be treated as compensable on that basis. 
The Bill provides that where a person loses both eyes he shall receive a total lump sum payment of $13,500 but no weekly payment. We disagree with that assessment. We think it should be 520 times the national minimum wage, which would produce a figure in relation to the Australian Capital Territory of $24,232 plus weekly payments for life. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard a table setting out the comparison between what the Opposition's amendment would give to an employee who suffered any of these schedule injuries and the amount which the employee would receive for the same injury under this Bill. 

<graphic href="072131197105063_54_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="072131197105063_54_2.jpg"></graphic>

It is not good enough, . we believe, to simply wipe off a widow with a flat payment of $13,500 and say: 'You are paid', irrespective of whether she is young with a number of dependent children or an elderly person without dependent children. If $13,500 is the proper figure for a widow of 64 years of age with no children, then it is grossly under the amount that should apply in the case of a young widow of 26 or 27 years of age who has four or live dependent children to maintain. Alternatively, if $13,500 can be' justified as a wipe-off figure for a young widow with four or five young children then axiomatically $13,500 must be too much for the elderly widow without any children. 
The proper approach is npt to attempt to get a lump sum payment to compensate widows for their loss but to' pay thom, while they have dependent children relying upon them, a weekly compensation payment equal to the amount their deceased husbands would have received had they remained at work. Once the ' children are no longer dependent she should receive an amount equal to 75 per cent of that figure, remembering all the time 'that if the widow continued to receive the full income her husband previously earned she would pay taxation, just as her husband Would  have  paid it had he been employed. She does not become a charge on the Department of Social Services and to the extent to which the Treasury is relieved of having to p ovide her with a widow's pension', so the loss is mitigated. It is not nearly, as expensive as people might imagine it to . be at first  sight. I think that it is wrong that the Bill makes no provision for compensation for a student after the student reaches 21 years of age and is still dependent. I know that the Department of Social Services, in other fields, does not treat a student as dependent after he reaches 21 years, but let us not forget that the medical benefits funds and the hospital associations treat students as dependent up to the age of 24 years. 1 believe we should have no limit at all. 1 cannot understand why the Bill does not include damages for bodily disfigurement as well as for facial disfigurement. I appreciate that the provision for facial disfigurement is almost a giant step forward compared with what has been provided in previous Bills we have had, but I have had put to me by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  who is greatly interested in this kind of thing, the case of a young lady in Newcastle who had a horrible gash in the upper part of her thigh which caused her great distress when she tried to join the fashion and wear mini-skirts, and when she went bathing. She got nothing for this. I think that cases of bodily injury such as this ought to attract compensation of some kind. The Minister has increased threefold, I think, the amount of compensation which his predecessor thought was sufficient for loss of sexual capacity. I congratulate him on his youthful approach to this matter. However, I cannot understand why he still refuses to give the same amount of compensation for serious facial disfigurement. This already applies in Queensland, where up to the maximum amount can be claimed. However, what the Minister has done is infinitely better that what his predecessor did.  His  predecessor seemed to adopt a penny-pinching attitude towards Commonwealth employees, and all of us are glad to see that this attitude has passed away. ] now turn to such matters as the lump sum payment for loss of taste or smell for which $1,350 is provided. I cannot understand why such a low figure is provided. We would suggest that nothing less than the figure we recommend  -  $8,542- ought to be provided for this injury. The Bill provides for maximum lump sum compensation of $9,450 for the total loss of speech. Nothing could be worse than the total loss of speech, with a person suddenly finding himself mute. I cannot see that anything less than the maximum amount that is contained in the Schedule should apply, in which event it would be $13,500 under the Government Schedule - the guiding rule - and more than $24,000 if we were to take the Opposition's figure. 
The amount of $300 for a funeral seems to me to be quite inadequate. Why cannot the Commonwealth say: 'We will meet all reasonable costs'? I have had it put to me that a situation could arise where a man working for the Commonwealth railways could be away from his home station and could die at the foreign station.  His  body has to be brought back to his home station, and at the moment all of this expense has to be met out of the amount set aside for the cost of the funeral. It is true that in the case of the Commonwealth Railways a Commonwealth Railways determination would require that the body be brought back to the point at which this person previously lived, but everyone is not covered by a Commonwealth Railways determination. When the interdepartmental committee is looking at this matter, it should try to see whether an improved method cannot be devised whereby the cost of returning the body of the worker to his home could be covered. 
I do not know why the Government wants to punish the widow of a person who commits suicide, by not providing for her any widow's compensation at all. No-one can blame the poor widow if a man is so distressed as to commit suicide. For all we know, his distress could be a consequence of bis work, and that could be the reason he takes his own life, leaving his wife and little children behind. They cannot be just wiped off and not cared about. I suggest that no normal person would take his own life. A person who does this obviously is suffering from a serious mental disease which, for all we know, could be caused by his work. I do not think it is right that a widow and little children should be made to suffer because of the breadwinner's action. The same can be said in respect of other injuries caused by an employee's wilful misconduct. I do not think that anybody would deliberately commit misconduct to the point of deliberately causing himself serious injury. People skylark, and this can be called misconduct but, after all, we all skylark; I have seen Ministers skylarking around the place in the early hours of the morning. Therefore, it is no use saying that there is a right to exclude such people from the benefits of workmen's compensation. 
Before I sit down I want to refer to the fact that the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Mclvor)  has received a petition which I have here and which has been signed by several hundreds of people who work at Trans-Australia Airlines in Melbourne and who ask that the Government do something to remedy the gross anomalies in the Bill. I am sorry- that time is. cutting out when I am only about a quarter of the way through the Bill. 
I would be cutting out my colleagues if I took that time. I regret that I cannot go through the whole matter. I am pleased - and I will have to conclude on this note - to know that the Department of Social Services is handling this matter instead of the Treasury. I am pleased to know as well that  Mr Wentworth  instead of  Mr Bury  will be handling it. A better department than used to handle the matter will now handle it, and a better Minister will handle it than handled it previously. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
 I move the amendment circulated in my name. Since there are now a few more minutes available for consideration of this measure than  I  had previously anticipated, I would like to refer to the things which the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Howson)  criticised me for not mentioning, that is, the improvements which the Government has made to its  1970  Bill and the good things that have been done by the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  I thought  1  had done this in a general way, but I am sorry if I did not convey that impression. I commend the Minister for thieving so many of the good proposals which I brought down in my model Bill. I think he must have seen it. I hope he did. Whether or not he did see it, and whether the similarities came about by design or coincidence, the fact remains that the  1971  Bill shows a considerable acceptance of many of the propositions that were contained in my  1970  model Bill. An important one is that injury is now compensable regardless of whether the employee suffered an accident. That is a tremendous step forward. 
Yes, I did.  1  am obliged to the honourable member for Casey for recalling that, because I did move an amendment on those lines in  1964.  This Bill has introduced payments for diseases and injuries resulting from diseases such as heart complaints, which previously would have been excluded. Seeing that half the people die from heart diseases of some kind, one must assume that half the people in the Commonwealth service will die from heart complaints, and claims for compensation will follow almost automatically. This is how it ought to be. Other people to benefit will be those suffering from other conditions that are related directly or indirectly to their employment or which are aggravated by their employment. This is an improvement which it is nearly impossible to exaggerate or to overestimate. 
The maximum compensation which previously applied no longer applies. There is no longer a maximum figure, which again is a step in the right direction. Indeed, in one way, if I may just pass to another subject that I had not intended to mention, the Government's proposal not to make the weekly compensation payments a percentage of average weekly earnings is much better than the provisions in most of the State Acts. Even in South Australia the payments are  85  per cent of wages. This provision corrects the disadvantage that would otherwise apply by virtue of the fact that an allowance of  $13  a week is given to the wife instead of the  $8.50  which we proposed. I was hoping that that figure, namely the  $13,  would be the figure the Minister would adopt in future, should he feel tempted to accept the South Australian figure, as the special payment to be made for the person who attends to an injured worker who needs intensive medical care. It seems that this is needed when the wife cannot go out to work. The wife of an injured worker who is able to care for himself very often can go out and supplement the family income or perhaps, more to the point, may continue to work as she did prior to her husband's accident. 
The loss of the sense of taste and smell have now been added to those conditions that will attract benefits. This is a big step forward. This is something to which I drew attention before, and the Minister has now seen fit to adopt that provision as well. The lump sum amount payable for severe facial disfigurement has been considerably increased. I think it has increased  10  times, from  $600  to over  $6,000.  Any provision that is  10  times greater than the previous one is good. But this provision is still below the Queensland provision, and therefore it is below what I think should apply. A considerable increase has been made in the payment for the loss of genitals and for the loss of capacity to engage in sexual intercourse. This again is something that is breaking new ground. The improvement in benefits relating to facial disfigurement, the loss of the sense of smell and taste except to a wine taster or someone to whom these senses are part of his job, and the loss of genitals are breaking new ground because one usually does not make a living this way. Of course, to get compensation for something that has no direct bearing on one's capacity to earn is breaking new ground; but it is a recognition, either wittingly or unwittingly, of the fact that lump sum compensations for injuries ought to go beyond compensation just for injuries that affect earning capacity. The loss of one's right to enjoy a proper and normal social life, and pain and suffering are things that should be compensated for. The Minister, however, has provided for this, and I think that is very good. 
The powers of the functions of the Commissioner have been greatly improved. I did not think that it would have been possible to improve the section of the Act dealing with the Commissioner's power and functions. I thought the section would have to be scrapped altogether and that a completely new concept would have to be adopted. But by quite a skilful device the Minister has been able to come up with a proposition whereby the original concept is retained but whereby the things that made the concept appear to be unacceptable have been removed. That is to his credit. 
Yes, and the fact that now where a medical certificate has been obtained at the request of the employer and any submissions have been made in respect of it, the employee may require the Commissioner to supply him with a copy of all documents that the Commissioner has had supplied to him by the employer. That is how it should be. I am glad that that is how it is. When South Australia made that kind of step forward recently, most of us thought that it was the kind of thing that we would have to wait many years to see emulated in other legislatures. It is good to know that the Minister - I must refer to the Minister and not to the Government in this respect - anticipated the actions of the South Australian Government because his proposals must have been formulated before the South Australian Bill was passed. I must compliment him on his action. The question of cost has been made a lot better. The Minister has shown his flexibility of mind on this point by adopting in Committee still further amendments on the question of costs. This as well is to his credit. 
The idea of the establishment of medical boards is welcomed. One of the things that we greatly resented in the 1970 Act was the provision that certificates from medical boards had to be treated as conclusive evidence. This just was not fair. Again, we scrubbed out medical boards altogether because we thought that it was not possible to make them work. I do not know; I think that I will need to have another look at the medical boards system. I am not saying that I accept it in its present form, but it has been so greatly improved by requiring that a. decision be unanimous that the original objection to it has been largely solved. 
I think that the Minister is to be congratulated for allowing the New South Wales Workers Compensation Commission which specialises in these things and the South Australian Industrial Court which will be the new body in South Australia to deal with these matters to be defined now as prescribed courts. I wish that we could have had a much longer debate on this Bill during the Committee stages. We have not. Therefore, I will content myself with saying no more at this stage. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Mr Clyde Cameron's)  be agreed to. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
How many native workers in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea died from Industrial accidents in each of the last 10 years. 
What was the average amount of compensation paid to the widows of these workers. 
asked the Prime 
Minister, upon notice: 
Did his predecessor on 17th December 1970 advise the Secretary of the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations that the Superannuation Board had recently decided to make copies of the Superannuation Manual available to organisations representing Commonwealth employees. 
If so, when is it expected that copies of the manual will be available. 
What are the reasons for the delay in making copies of the manual available. 
asked the Treasurer,  upon notice: 
Is he able to state the estimated number of assessors employed by all insurance companies and government insurance offices in connection with claims for compensation and damages arising out of personal injuries caused by industrial accidents or diseases and by road accidents. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will he give a man-day breakdown and the cause of the reduction of 200,000 persons from the Australian work force to- which he made reference in his Productivity Statement on 23 February 1971. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Can he say what amount was paid in claims for workers' compensation in all States and Territories of the Commonwealth in each of the last 5 years for which figures are available. 
What was the ratio of claims to premiums paid 'in each of those years. ' 
asked the Treasurer, upon ontice: 
What progress has the Commonwealth Statistician made in' the re-basing of his factory production indexes as at 1968-69. 
Has the Statistician examined the desirability of compiling and publishing annual indexes of factory production and work force particulars from the annual factory censuses on which the indexes are based. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What are the situations in a Territory of the Commonwealth in which (a) the owner and (b) the driver of a motor car cannot succeed in a claim under third-party insurance for damages caused by a road accident. 
What are the circumstances in a Territory of the Commonwealth which would prevent a passenger or a pedestrian from succeeding in a claim under third-party insurance for damages caused by a road accident. 
Is there any merit in introducing legislation which will ensure that no person injured in a road accident will be excluded from coverage for damages. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Can he give an estimate of the extent to which technology has caused retrenchment of labour in each of the last 10 years? 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  this afternoon we have seen the most pitiful performance from a Prime Minister that we have ever seen in this House. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  refused to answer questions which he could have answered quite easily. He could have told this Parliament the real reasons for the dismissal of the former Minister for Defence but he failed to do so. He simply turned what is a motion deploring the outside influence of  Sir Frank  Packer upon the decisions of the Prime Minister of this country into an opposition to a motion which was never moved. A motion of no confidence in the Government was the imaginary motion to which the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  gave their replies. It is no wonder that not one single Government supporter bothered to congratulate tlie Prime Minister after that deplorable effort. 
It seems to me that we are going to see desperate attempts made to prevent the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  from speaking.  His  tender remarks about the state of chaos within the Liberal Party must have intrigued most of us. Instead of defending himself the Prime Minister, as i say, carried out a vicious personal attack upon the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in an attempt to deflect the attention of the House from the charges that the Opposition has laid against him. There is no doubt whatever that the Prime Minister was in difficulties. He did not deny, as he could easily have done, the charge that he has been trying to use the Australian Cricket Board of Control and  Sir Donald  Bradman to bring about a cricket tour in order to throw this country into a state of disunity in the hope that that would assist him in his campaign to retain office. 
He did not deny the clear imputations levelled against him that it is he who has leaked the information to the Press and not the other Ministers against whom he is now casting aspersions. There is not any doubt at all that the present Prime Minister was the leak to the newspapers. There is not any doubt at all that this country holds the unenviable position of being the only parliamentary democracy in the world where one can find out most of the important decisions contained in the Budget a week before it is delivered. In the United Kingdom under a Labour Government when a Labour Minister, Hugh Dalton, was found to have leaked information unwittingly by dropping a chance word to a pressman he was dismissed immediately. The Prime Minister should begin emulating the British tradition by sacking himself at once because he is the person who has leaked information to Newton. I know for a positive fact that at one time he rang Newton regularly every Sunday afternoon and spoke to him for 2 hours about Budget information and about discussions within the Cabinet. If he denies that he telephoned Newton on those occasions, if he denies that he has not been in constant touch with the Press and with the proprietors of the Press over the last few days prior to getting the courage up to dismiss the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  let him table the telephone dockets. I challenge him to table the telephone dockets and let us see to whom he spoke. I will table mine if he will table his. Is it any wonder that he took a whole week to get up the courage to dismiss the right honourable member for Higgins when it is well known that he has told his friends confidentially that he always feels uncomfortable in the presence of the right honourable gentleman and does not like him in the Cabinet? He said: 'I feel inferior when I stand before him'. Is it any wonder when one looks at the two of them? Compare the two people. Is it any wonder that he feels inferior when he stands before the right honourable member for Higgins? Is it any wonder  Mr Max  Newton was able to say: 
It must have taken a tremendous personal effort for Billy to screw himself up to sack Gorton. In the past Billy has always got other people - myself, Alan Reid,  Sir Frank  Packer. Warwick Fairfax and many others - to stab his enemies for him while Billy waited in the background until the crisis which others had precipitated came to a solution. 
There are the words from  Mr Max  Newton himself. 
Is it any wonder that  Sir John  McEwen vetoed  Mr McMahon  as Prime Minister? Can one wonder that the Country Party said: 'We will not serve under a man who is so distrusted, a man who will betray Cabinet secrets, a man who is prepared to go to Max Newton and give him information that money could not buy from anybody else'? Is it any wonder that Max Newton was able to reap a small fortune from his teleprinter confidential information to his very select clientele of people who paid him for valuable secret Government information? Among his clients were the Mutual Life and Citizens' Assurance Co. Ltd, General Motors-Holdens Pty Ltd, top stockbrokers and the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. That gives an idea of the sort of people who are prepared to pay Maxwell Newtown for the information that the present Prime Minister deliberately leaked to him in his regular 2-hour talks on the telephone. If he denies that he had regular 2-hour talks with Max Newton on the telephone prior to the time when  Sir John  McEwen got the wind of it and refused to have him as Prime Minister, let him table telephone dockets from his office now for us to see. I know that he did. 
I would like to see the telephone dockets representing the telephone calls he made from  Mr Robinson's  home in Surfers Paradise while he was there plotting to get from the Country Party the seat now occupied by the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes).  While he was plotting to get rid of the Country Party representative in McPherson he thought it would not be a bad idea to get rid of the honourable member for Moreton also. If the honourable member for Moreton loses his preselection it can be put down to the plotting of the Prime Minister and of Eric Robinson who would probably like to have the seat himself. But it will be the silliest thing the Liberal Party ever does because the moment it takes the preselection off -our friend Killen will be the moment we take the seat from the Liberal Party. There is no doubt about that. The people did not give the present Prime Minister the authority to govern this country. They gave that authority to the right honourable member for Higgins who was cut and clawed down as only a cat could do it. They certainly did not give it to  Sir Frank  Packer who is now governing this country. Packer's credo is: 'Let the people elect the Prime Minister and I will sack him if he does not do as I say.' As Rohan Rivett put it in the Sunday Review' recently: 
The treatment of John Grey Gorton since he showed a total unwillingness to receive 'advice' from  Sir Frank,  or  Sir Frank's  most trusted henchmen, has been as hard, as brilliantly destructive and often as well concealed, as any minefield in Vietnam. 
Another gentle little quote about  Sir Frank  from the same newspaper is worth recording. This was written by none other than the editor, Richard Walsh, and one could not go much higher than that: 
The life of  Sir Frank  Packer is that of a larrikin who almost all his life has had the kind of money that allowed him to indulge himself to the full. He is brutal in his treatment of those who cross him and power-hungry in his dealings and manipulations of men and events. 
That is right, and the Liberals admit they could not have won in 1961 without him. 
That may not be nattering to  Sir Frank  Packer but it is certainly not libellous because it is true, and now that he has become the de facto Prime Minister of Australia it is in the public interest that everybody who is ruled by this man should be able to see the real character of the non-elected dictator of the Liberal Party and of the Australian people. From now on a vote for McMahon is a vote for placing the control of the country in the hands of a multi-millionaire Press baron who will have power without responsibility, which has been the prerogative of the harlot throughout the ages. 
The Prime Minister has become the Vyshinksy of Australian politics. Through  Sir Frank  Packer's guiding control and at his behest the Treasurer was picked back in 1968. Packer picked the Prime Minister in 1968 and again in 1971. Packer sacked the Foreign Minister and the Defence Minister in 1971 and Packer intends to take the preselection away from the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  if he can. If the honourable member for Berowra loses his preselection that will be proof positive that what I say is correct. If he loses his preselection everybody will know that it was lost as a consequence of the inordinate pressure and power that this man Packer has over the Liberal Party. The honourable member is the best AttorneyGeneral I have seen in this Parliament, with the exception of  Sir Garfield  Barwick. He did not deserve the sack but he got it because he was no longer prepared to be a puppet of Packer. That is why he was dismissed. The present Prime Minister knows perfectly well that the people whom he has sacked are people who did not deserve to be sacked. The honourable member for Moreton did not deserve to be sacked when he was the Minister for the Navy. He at least was not one who was prepared to emulate his Prime Minister, who as Minister for the Navy took a post as the admiral's gentleman on the eastern seaboard and was thus able to dictate his requirements to the admiral. 
It is a great tragedy to see this once united party hacking itself to pieces at the behest of an outside person. Treachery, intrigue, villification and a smouldering hatred now pervade the Party. When we look at the sorry sordid sight that fails to grace the benches opposite one is able to understand why the Government has lost all sense of direction. It is more like a tin of worms or a bag full of cats than a Cabinet of responsible men. The end is not yet in sight. One of those how in line for the axe is the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  whom 1 admire for his courage in resisting the temptation or the invitation on television to stab his former leader in the back. I bow to him for' his courage, lt took great courage and he has it. He deserves full credit but unfortunately his action only makes his demise all the more certain. He will be replaced by somebody like the former honourable member for Riverina,  Mr Hugh  Roberton, who will give the pensioners a decent serving of Liberal Party policy. The next man for the axe - perhaps it will not be in this order - is the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock).  The next man is the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  and after him my good friend the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  although I hope I am wrong in saying this because he certainly does not deserve to be dismissed. In my opinion he is likely to be the fourth to go. They will then join on the back benches their illustrious colleagues the right honourable member for Higgins and the honourable members for Moreton, Wentworth and Berowra. 
The right honourable member for Higgins and the honourable members fm Moreton and Berowra have something else in common. They all are in for the preselection axe. In case the right honourable member for Higgins thinks he is out of the pie-selection woods let me sound this word of warning. I know that the new Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  has a commission from the Prime Minister to use his influence in the Liberal Party to destroy the former Prime Minister of this country. Here you have this sordid intrigue of a Prime Minister going to one of his Ministers - perhaps this is the price of his appointment to the Cabinet - and saying Your duly now is to remove the man who used to be the Prime Minister of this country' - a man who fought for this country in a way the present Prime Minister did not. They have plotted and planned the defeat of this man over a period of months. I only wish I could talk more about the future of these people to whom I have referred. 
The Prime Minister has given a prize to everybody in the Liberal Party who has said 'I am prepared to betray my party and vote with the opponents if a no confidence motion is moved'. They are the ones who have now been elevated to the Ministry. Let me tell the Prime Minister this: In giving this imprimateur on party treachery he is setting the pattern for his own destruction because he cannot complain if three or four other persons get up in the party room and say: 'Unless the Prime Minister is sacked  we  will walk across the floor of the House and destroy him in the way he has destroyed John Grey Gorton.' The situation has reached a very sorry state.  1  wish  1  had further time to enable me to talk about the sorry situation which now exists in the Liberal Party. We will need a strong Opposition after the next election. We will need one badly but instead we will get a disunited rabble. We want an Opposition that will be in a position to tell the Labor Government when we are wrong and when we should improve our kind of government. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
In the light of his answer to question No. 2242 (Hansard, 17th February 1971, pages 198-9) is he satisfied that his answers to paragraph (1) of question No. 215 (Hansard, 7th April 1970), paragraph (1) of question No. 710 (Hansard, 5th May 1970) and question No. 1011 (Hansard, 10th June 1970) were fully answered. 
Did consultations take place between officers of his Department and the Public Service Board and/or the Postmaster-General's Department and/or any other department concerning the appearance of the Public Service Board as a party in the Joint Bench hearing of the Amalgamated Postal Workers' Union case for equal pay. 
Did his Department approve of the action taken by the Public Service Board. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Was financial assistance approved ot granted under Conciliation and Arbitration Regulation 138 to J. E. Dunford or to L. E. Dunford within the last 5 years. 
If so, on what date was the assistance approved, and what amount has the Registrar paid in respect of the matter. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Why is it that the salaries of certain officers employed by the Commonwealth Railways and referred to in question No. 2242 (Hansard, 18th February 1971, pages 198-9) do not come within the scope of his Department's co-ordinating responsibility. 
Do any of the employees of the Commonwealth Railways come within the scope of his Department's co-ordinating responsibility. 
If so, what is the reason for excluding others. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What was the percentage of the total inspections of federal awards carried out by State Inspectors in each of the past 10 years for which figures are available. 
What was the percentage of the total inspections of State prescriptions carried out by Commonwealth Inspectors in each of the past 10 years for which figures are available. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
ls it in the public interest that union rules should not be contrary to law or be oppressive, unreasonable or unjust and that all lawful rules of a  union  should be observed by all persons who are under an obligation to observe those rules. 
If so, will he consider the desirability of formulating regulations which will ensure thai no individual person shall be personally required to meet any of the costs of legal action taken by him under sections 140 and 141 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to protect the public interest. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Does bis Department propose to cancel the weekly visits of the Federal Arbitration Inspector to Ballarat. 
Is if a fact that approximately two-thirds of the work force in Ballarat operate under Federal awards.- 
. If the position is as stated, will he reconsider the decision to cancel the visits of the Inspector. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will he expand his predecessor's answer to paragraph (3) of question No. 2011 (Hansard, 16th February 1971, page 91) to say whether it is contrary to the best interests of Australia for the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to refuse wage increases at a time when (a) prices and (b) profits are soaring. 
Has the (a) total level of profits and (b) rate of increase in profits in any year since 1950 exceeded the (i) total value of increased productivity and (ii) the rate of growth in productivity, respectively. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What is the approximate percentage of industrial establishments that observe the guidelines issued by the National Labour Advisory Council  for labour-management relationship at factory level. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What is the name of each Commissioner of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission who has received a lump sum payment in lieu of furlough? 
What amount was received in each case, and what were the circumstances which gave rise to the decision to make these payments? 
I ask the Prime Minister: Did the political correspondent of the 'Sunday Australian' assert on 15th August that the Prime Minister was familiar with the contents of  Mr Reid's  book, that he had spoken with  Mr Reid  about it on several occasions and that he had told associates that he thought the book would finally destroy his adversary and prepare the Party and the public for the sacking to come? Would he agree that such conduct on his part, if correctly reported, represented a threat to Cabinet solidarity and unity graver by far than the articles by the former Minister for Defence? Why, therefore, has he not taken steps to deny these charges? Will he do so now? 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Is the Sales Branch of his Department advocating the installation of Victa red telephones for people wishing to install public telephones on their premises. 
If so, is this in accordance with established Government policy. 
What is the annual rental and the cost per call for the (a) Victared telephones and (b) multi-coin telephones of the Department. 
What percentage of the cost per call on  a  Victa red telephone accrues to the (a) PostmasterGeneral's Department, (b) subscriber and (c) V.T.C. Pty Ltd. 
What percentage of the cost per call of  a  postal multi-coin telephone accrues to the (a) Postmaster-General's Department and (b) subscriber. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
ls the maintenance of Victa Red telephones performed by technicians of his Department? 
If so, from whom is the payment received by his Department for this service? 
What is the level of this payment? 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Did the Arbitration Commission adopt the submissions of the Commonwealth  on  the subject of equal pay? 
If not, in what respects did the Commission reflect the Commonwealth's submissions? 
In view of the anomalous position created by the criteria relative to equal pay advocated by the Commonwealth and adopted by the Commonwealth and which has the effect of excluding nursing sisters from entitlement of equal pay, will he modify the Commonwealth's opposition to equal pay for work that is essentially or usually performed by females? 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that his Department prepares its own statistics on some matters related to industrial affairs? 
Is it also a fact that in some instances these figures are at variance with figures prepared by the Commonwealth Statistician? 
Has an embargo ever been placed on the release of any of the statistical material compiled by his Department? 
 I second the motion. I hope that my contribution to the debate will be on the same high level as the contribution of my friend the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly).  This is a fairly serious matter that we are looking at now.  Mr Speaker,  you have been put in a most invidious position because you have no been told very much about this move. You have received letters, you told us. 1 have no doubt that the letters have indicated merely the intention of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  rather than your disapproval of the contemplated move. I know,  Mr Speaker,  that you will disapprove of the move that is contemplated because as the chief custodian of the Parliament's rights and its obligations under the Constitution of the Commonwealth you will see to it that the Constitution is not abrogated in any way. 
The first thing you will recognise is that the Standing Orders of the House of Representatives cannot override the Constitution no matter how much a Prime Minister would like to see it done. I will read the relevant part of the Constitution. Section 64 states: 
The Governor-General may appoint officers to administer such departments of State of the Commonwealth as the Governor-General in Council may establish. 
Such officers shall hold office during the pleasure of the Governor-General. They shall be members of the Federal Executive Council, and shall be the Queen's Ministers of State for the Commonwealth. 
After the first general election no Minister of State shall hold office for a longer period than  3  months unless he is or becomes a senator or a member of the House of Representatives. 
That is the Constitution. That is the law that binds us all. That is the law that binds the Parliament. That is the law that the High Court is charged with upholding. That is the law that keeps this Commonwealth together and makes it what it is - a Commonwealth. You,  Mr Speaker,  are reaching your moment of great truth. You are sitting in a very responsible position. You are now about to make a decision that will go into the history books of this country. Will the future students of history read of  Sir William  Aston as another  Sir Thomas  More, or will they read of him- 
What did you think I was about to say? 
No, it is not a question of debating the whole ambit. I agree with you, with great respect, and I have no right to talk about sharpened daggers that the Assistant Ministers will be plunging into the backs of their Ministers, but I can- 
I realise all that, but in moving for the suspension of Standing Orders I am entitled to give the reasons why I think that the motion I wish to have debated and voted upon ought to be so debated and voted upon. 
When I point out to you that the motion that was moved by the Prime Minister in the earlier part of this year is a motion that, in my opinion, should be first disposed of before the Parliament goes ahead with the appointment of Assistant Ministers, you must see the logic of my argument. We ought to suspend the Standing Orders because before we do anything about finalising the appointment of these Assistant Ministers, we must clear the decks and ascertain whether the Prime Minister has the right constitutionally to do this, and I think that for that reason we should now suspend the Standing Orders and we should take a vote on whether what is proposed is valid. In order to emphasise the seriousness of the proposals let me state what it is proposed to do. The Assistant Ministers will be sworn in as ' members of the Executive Council. I do not know whether that is understood, but the Assistant Ministers will be sworn in as members of the Executive 
Council, if you please, and yet this major departure from the constitutional position which this Parliament has previously upheld is to be taken without the Parliament itself determining whether it should be taken or whether it is constitutional. In his statement the Prime Minister said: 
intend that the Assistant Ministers will be sworn as Executive Councillors. They will thus form part of the Federal Executive Council whose function, under section 62 of the Constitution, is to advise the Governor-General in the government of the Commonwealth. 
Let us incorporate into Hansard the text of section 62 of the Constitution. It states: 
There shall be a Federal Executive Council to advise the Governor-General in the government of the Commonwealth, and the members of the Council shall be chosen and summoned by the Governor-General and sworn as Executive Councillors, and shall hold office during his pleasure. 
These are not under secretaries,  Sir, about  whom there was debate when you and I first came into this Parliament; these are people of an entirely different standing. These are people, to use the Prime Minister's further description of them, who 
As members of the Federal Executive Council, the Assistant Ministers will in general be able to  excercise  statutory functions of the Ministers they are assisting - including the making of appointments and the performance of other functions expressly conferred on the Minister - provided he has authorised them to this effect . . The Assistant Ministers will be assigned to assist certain Ministers of Cabinet rank, who have the responsibility, not only of administering their own departments, but of taking part in the continuing process of consultation which is an essential feature of effective Cabinet government. 
He goes on to say that it is important that Ministers should be directly answerable to Parliament for the administration of their departments. Unfortunately, this is not a time for levity and I do not propose to engage in it but,  Sir, you  must take a firm stand here. You should, and I know that you will, think long and very carefully over this proposal that is now being imposed upon the Parliament. I believe that the Parliament itself cannot take this thing lightly. If we are not careful and if we take this vital step now, we will be creating a precedent. We are governed by precedents as much as we are by statutory law and by judge made law. Precedents set by laymen become the accepted law of the country. This precedent is making a law and if you make a law now that will permit the appointment of Assistant Ministers who will be members of the Executive Council, there ls nothing to stop the present Prime Minister appointing another 6 next month, another 6 the month after and another 6 the month after that. Indeed, what is there to stop him? This is the question we all should ponder. What is there to stop the Prime Minister appointing every person sitting on the Government benches as an Assistant Minister? There will be nothing to stop him because the Constitution does not say: 'You may appoint 6 Assistant Ministers'. The Constitution states that no person shall hold an office of profit under the Crown unless he is a Minister. But these are Ministers except that they will not hold an office of profit under the Crown. This is the odd thing. They will not hold an office of profit under the Crown, but they will be members of the Executive Council and will be permitted, subject to the Minister's delegated authority, to make appointments and to give effect to the decisions that would normally be carried out by the Minister. This, I believe, is such a serious matter that the people of Australia will expect the Parliament to first clear the decks before it goes on with this proposal. I would hope that honourable members will think as though they arc Australians - not Labor Party supporters, Liberal Party supporters or anything else - and remember that this is just one step closer to the demise of parliamentary democracy in Australia. We might as well close up the place if we are to ride rough shod over the Constitution and the Standing Orders, and allow one man to become virtual dictator of Australia. I say no more. I hope that the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders will be carried, at least so that the Parliament can speak and decide what will have to be the order of the day. If the Parliament in its foolishness decides to allow this man this further rope with which to hang democracy in Australia, I hope that as a last bastion of democracy you,  Mr Speaker,  the senior member and officer of the Parliament, will stand up and say, as your predecessor Archie Cameron stood up and said: 'You will go no further in this matter.' If the Parliament has not the courage to act, it is ultimately your duty to ignore and to refuse to accept these men as Assistant Ministers, acting in the same way as Archie Cameron did. The one thing for which Archie Cameron will be remembered, more than for anything else, when historians get down to the job of appraising his work as  Speaker,  will be the way he stood up to  Sir Robert  Menzies. If Archie Cameron could stand up to  Sir Robert  Menzies I know that you,  Sir, will  find no difficulty in standing up to this little fellow. 
I oppose the motion. I am a little disturbed by a lot of the things 1 read in the speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  I note that on 29th April the Prime Minister promised that he would be consulting the Presiding Officers to see whether an amendment of the Standing Orders was necessary to make the appointments in order that the Assistant Ministers could carry out to the full the jobs they are supposed to do. You,  Sir, were  perhaps a little tentative about it but the impression I gained from your reply to a question this morning is shared by the honourable members to whom I have spoken about the matter, including some honourable members opposite. The impression you gave me is that you believe that the Standing Orders Committee would have to meet and the Standing Orders would have to be altered before the Assistant Ministers could fully discharge their duties. But did the Prime Minister worry about the Standing Orders Committee? Did he worry about your opinion.  Mr Speaker,  on whether alterations to the Standing Orders were necessary? No. He charges in like a wildeyed mallee bull and decides to appoint these people to the positions. He does not care 2 hoots about the Standing Orders Committee of this Parliament and he does not care about you,  Mr Speaker.  He does not care about your opposite number,  Sir 
Magnus Cormack, in the other place. Incidentally,  Sir Magnus  has had a few well chosen remarks to make about Assistant Ministers. He thinks it is a lot of nonsense, and says that so far as he is concerned he will refuse to recognise them. So how on earth  Senator Marriott  is to be recognised without a change in the Standing Orders of the Senate is beyond me. 
We all recall that  Sir Magnus  Cormack is now  President  of the Senate, very much against the Prime Minister's wishes. The Prime Minister tried his best to stop  Sir Magnus  getting there, but he did not succeed. This is another example of the Party's refusal to accept his dictates whenever there can be a private vote on anything. Now in the other place there is a Presiding Officer who does not believe that Assistant Ministers are necessary. He believes that they are unconstitutional. I would like to relate to the House some of the remarks made by the honourable gentleman who is now  President  of the Senate. He said: 1 can see  Senator Cotton  and  Senator Wright  wincing at this. 

 Sir Magnus had just said that he did not think much of the idea of Ministers in the Senate. Probably there are people who would agree with that after having a look at some of the senators who now occupy ministerial positions. He went on: 1 am ready to put up with  Senator Cotton  and  Senator Wright  - 
It appears that they are the only 2 Ministers there whom he is prepared to put up with - but I am not prepared to put up with a bevy of Assistant Ministers in this place. 

 Senator Withers, who was the Prime Minister's nominee for  President,  thought that he would get into it. He interjected: 
A bevy or a covey? 
That was apparently something special.  Sir Magnus  Cormack said: 
A covey, I think. 
He accepted the amendment.  Senator Withers,  the Prime Minister's 'pea', interjected again: 
Or a gaggle? 
That is nice, coming from a prospective  President  of the Senate.  Sir Magnus  Cormack replied to the interjection: 
A gaggle is another word, perhaps a whist of snipe. I reject 'a pride of lions'. 

 Senator Davidson, who was the Acting  Deputy President,  intervened and said: Order! 1 wish you would behave like senators and observe the decorum of the Senate. Please come back to the Bill.' So the senator who was later to become  President  then said: 
Do not worry,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I have control of myself. 
In effect he said: 'Anybody who thinks I am under the influence of some other person must have another think coming.' In this dialogue - 'which is a favourite word now - in the Senate on the question of bevies or coveys of Assistant Ministers the present  President  and the runner-up for the position of  President  were virtually agreeing that it is absolute nonsense to have these people as Assistant Ministers. How do you justify it? The Prime Minister said: T am justifying it because I want to prepare them for full ministerial status.' Good grief,  Sir. Have  a look at the people we are to get as Ministers in the near future. It will be the near future because the knives are out already. I was told by a prominent person - I will not say whether on this side or the other side of the chamber - that 3 more changes in the Ministry will be made this weekend. 
I invite honourable senators to have a look at who might take the vacancies. First there is the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay).  Goodness gracious. I do not know whether the Prime Minister thinks that this is a circus or a vaudeville show and wants to keep us all laughing or in a state of rapt surprise. Fancy appointing the honourable member for Boothby, whose only claim to fame is that he has made 2 or 3 trips to South Africa at the expense of the South African Government, and to Rhodesia, and has come back breathing fire and brimstone in favour of apartheid. Next is the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street).  I will not dispute that appointment. I have often said that he has great potential, but perhaps the reason he was appointed is not so much that he has great potential as it is that he happens to be a person who believes in lowering the tariffs. We all remember how the Prime Minister, at the time he was caught up with Maxwell Newton on behalf of the Basic Industries Group, was plugging for something a little different from this. So perhaps this is the payoff to make it appear that they are not quite as bad as it was thought they were. 
The next appointment is the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson).  The honourable member for Cowper himself really thinks it is a joke because he has not stopped laughing ever since the appointment was made, and I do not blame him. 1 do not blame the Prime Minister either who need not look so glum. We appreciate that it was his  Deputy  who made that appointment, but his are no better. The look on the Prime Minister's face seems to indicate: 'I don't blame you for getting satisfaction out of the fact that he is no good, but do not blame me.' That is what the Prime Minister's expression seems to imply, but his appointees are not a little bit better. 
Now I come to the prize of all appointments, the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie).  For 2 days after the Prime Minister attained the Prime Ministership the honourable member for Cook was seen up and down the corridors of the House, listening for the paging system to call him to the Prime Minister's office. I did give him a call and said that he was wanted and he charged around to the Prime Minister's office. I got the girl to put through a call that he was wanted in the Prime Minister's office because I felt I could safely anticipate such a call. I do not know whether he went. I understood that he heard the call. If he heard it, I imagine that he would go around. 
But whom has the Prime Minister passed over? He has passed over the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown).  I dislike saying anything very laudatory about our friend, but whatever else he is, he is one of the brightest sparks on the other side. I tell the Prime Minister that, in case he has not noticed. 
But he comes from Victoria and the Sydney Stock Exchange will not allow the Prime Minister to appoint anybody from Victoria, so I am told. That is the reason, Now we come to the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  Compared with the honourable member for Boothby, the honourable member for Angas would be a genius. It is like comparing a giant with a political pygmy to compare the 2 of them. But why is he put aside? The reason that the Prime Minister would not have him prepared as a Minister is because he knows that the honourable member is a supporter of the former Prime Minister and he would not put himself in the position where possible supporters of the former Prime Minister would obtain authority or power. The Prime Minister has passed over the honourable member for isaacs  (Mr Hamer),  a very estimable person who, of course, unfortunately comes from Victoria. Packer will not allow the Prime Minister to appoint any Victorian without first getting the all clear signal. The honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  is a very estimable person. One of the finest brains on the Government side is the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley).  I said to the honourable member for Chisholm last night that his maiden speech was excellent. He kept it on a very high level, and he ought to try very hard to maintain that level. He will find it difficult, but he should at least try. 
We all know why this has been done. The Prime Minister wants to walk into his Party meetings, whenever there is a meeting, knowing that there are enough of his appointees al the meeting who will always put up their hands for everything he puts forward. He could not quite get that result with the Ministers because there are only 27. The Prime Minister thought he should make a few more appointments. He is like Jack Lang trying to get rid of the Upper House. Lang kept appointing more and more to the Upper House, but each time the members changed their minds just as the crunch came. That will be the Prime Minister's trouble. He may think that 6 Assistant Ministers will be sufficient to do the job now, but he will need another 6 in 6 months time. In the meantime, think of the havoc they will cause within the Ministry. I remember the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr Swartz)  proudly reminding us of his exploits as Parliamentary Secretary. I remember those days. Had 1 been in his position I would have hoped that everyone would have forgotten about them. If I recall correctly, he was Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister for Trade, who was  Sir John  McEwen. He spent all of his time preparing questions to be directed to  Sir 
John McEwen in order to make him look as if he understood the subject. The honourable member would direct 2 or 3 questions a day to his own Minister. Why did he not question the Minister when he was in his office instead of wasting our time in the Parliament?  Mr John  Howse, a former member for Calare, was appointed as a Parliamentary Secretary. He was utterly fed up with the job of being a stamp licker. This reminds me of what  Mrs Newton,  Maxwell Newton's mother, said. She said that was all the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  was fit for when he was working in the office of a legal firm in Western Australia. However, all  Mr John  Howse was asked to do was to lick the stamps for the girls who worked in the office of the Minister for External Affairs. He got out. He said: 'I will not have a bar of this. I will not demean myself by carrying on any longer.'  Mr Bill  Falkinder, a former member for Franklin, was another who held the position of Parliamentary Under-Secretary. He also got out. The only honourable member who stuck to the job, of course, was the present Leader of the House. 
The daggers are already drawn. The Ministers are now looking over their shoulders to see what the Assistant Ministers are doing. Of course, it is very nice for the Prime Minister to say: 'We need them because we want to relieve the Ministers of the need to come into the Parliament when the House debates some Bill which affects a particular Minister'. But what about the position of the shadow Ministers. Honourable members of the Opposition have no help at all. I do more work than any Minister. 
Yes, I do want some help. The only help I have received was on the occasion that  Mr Speaker  gave me some help which I needed and could not have done without. But that help was taken away and I am still without it. No-one can claim that I do not do as much work as any Minister, but I have to do that work with one typist. I have no research officers; no assistance whatever. The Government should give  Her  Majesty's Opposition's shadow cabinet some assistance before it creates these new positions of Assistant Ministers. I am reminded by one of my colleagues that when the present Leader of the House was a Parliamentary Secretary the newspapers at the time carried a cartoon that very admirably portrayed him. He was described as the 'abominable no man', because he had been trained by his Minister to say 'No'. The appointment of Assistant Ministers will make an absolute farce of the Parliament. But what does the Prime Minister care? He is only a tiny little ineffectual man who knows that he can maintain control only while he is able to appoint enough lackeys and yes men to prop up his numbers inside the Party room. But the people of this country and the Parliament ought not to be concerned about propping up some ineffectual, tiny, funny little man who poses as Prime Minister. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Can he say whether New Zealand has recently passed legislation to provide compensation for injuries sustained by victims of certain specified criminal acts. 
Does the Commonwealth intend to consider similar legislation. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
How many persons were (a) killed and (b) injured per 10,000 vehicles on the roads during each of me last 5 years for which figures are available? 
What was the total number of casualties per 10,000' vehicles on the road during each of those years? 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
ls he able to say whether, under the Social Security Act of the United Kingdom, an employee who is unemployed by reason of a strike conducted by his own union, is entitled to receive supplementary social security benefits in respect of a wife and children as well as a rent allowance? 
What is the amount of social services benefit paid in Australia in respect of the wife and children of an employee in Australia who is unemployed by reason of a strike by (a) his own union at his place of employment, (b) another union at his place of employment, (c) his own union at another place of employment and (d) another union at another place of employment? 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether, in the United Kingdom, a man who becomes ill while he is on strike is entitled to claim sickness benefit under the United Kingdom's national insurance scheme? 
What is the position of a man in a similar case in Australia? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: ls the Minister able to say which countries have laws permitting the imposition of the death penalty upon a person found guilty of hijacking an aircraft? 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What percentage of the total work force has its wages adjusted directly to national wage decisions. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
When was the backlog of claims in the Australian Capital Territory awaiting determination by a Conciliation Commissioner overtaken. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
In what unions and branches of unions in each of the past 15 years has the Registrar received a request under section 170 of the Conciliation and Arbitration- Act that a union election De conducted by the Registrar with a view to preventing irregularities. 
Which of these requests were refused by the Registrar and what was the reason for refusal in each case. 
In which of those requests grunted by the Registrar was the election actually conducted by (a) the Commonwealth Electoral Officer and (b) the Registrar. 
How many ballot papers were posted to union members in each of the elections conducted by the Registar. 
How many of these ballot papers were (a) not returned and (b) returned unclaimed. 
Does the Registrar keep a record of the number of man-hours spent in completing each of the elections conducted by him; if so, how many man-hours were spent in conducting each election. 
What was the total man-hours spent by members of the Registrar's staff in conducting union elections in each of the past 15 years and what was the estimated cost of this labour. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How many employers were found to be in breach of federal awards or regulations in each of 
I address my question to the Minister for Labour and National Service. Sid the honourable gentleman address a forum organised by the Committee for Economic Development of Australia on 6th September this year at which he said, amongst other things, that full employment means simply the highest rate of employment which can be sustained without widespread severe demand pressures or serious balance of payments difficulties and must also depend, amongst other things, upon the rate of growth and adaptability of the labour force and the imbalance in the labour force? Did he conclude his address by saying that the Government is firmly committed to a policy of high employment as distinct - these are my words - from a policy of full employment? To what extent will full employment be jeopardised by widespread demand pressure or a balance of payments difficulty or a structural imbalance in the economy and the labour market? Finally, does bis reference to a Government policy of high employment mean that the Government contemplates an increase in the present unemployment figure of  H  per cent of the employees in the work force? 
asked the Minister  for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Will he examine the reasons given by Courts for (a) refusing to convict employers for information laid by unions for breach of section 5 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and (b) convictions under the section followed by  a  refusal to order the reinstatement of  a  victimised union member. 
In particular, will he examine the case of McVey v. Fiesta Togs Pty Ltd of 5th August 1964 when an employee who was dismissed after demanding payment of sick leave, which was subsequently paid, was found by, Dunphy J. to have been dismissed for impertinence to the executive of the company. 
Has his attention been drawn to the publication Australian Industrial Laws (Fourth Edition) which describes  Mr Justice  Dunphy's finding as ironic, pointing out that had the company not erroneously refused to pay the claim in the first instance there would have been no occasion for the so-called impertinence. 
Does this case and several others indicate the need for amending the section of the Act in such a way as to make it easier for unions to enforce the policy of the Act against victimisation of union members and union delegates. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What amount of sales tax was paid on each of the boats built to contest the America's Cup races during the last 10 years. 
What proportion of the value of each boat was subject to sales tax, 
Was any special exemption given to the syndicates formed  to  build and race the boats. 
Can he say what are the names of the persons or Interests who formed these syndicates. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourablethe  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of electors of the Division of Hindmarsh respectfully sheweth: 
That the determination as to which young men are required to undergo compulsory military service under the National Service Act 1951-1968 is arrived at by a ballot system, based upon arbitrary grounds as to their date of birth. 
And that this procedure providing for selection by a method of chance is an unfair and arbitrary imposition on the human rights of a minority and discriminates against certain of the young male persons in the community in favour of others solely by reason of their respective dates of birth. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Section Twenty-six of the National Service Act 1951-1968 be repealed. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many Commonwealth employees (excluding First and Second Division officers) are required to work (a) 40 hours, (b) 36¾ hours and (c) other hours per week at ordinary rates of pay. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it the policy of the Registrar, when satisfied that Conciliation and Arbitration Regulation 138 applies, to remit filing fees and to pay the applicant's travelling and accommodation expenses to the hearing and not less than 75 per cent of his taxed costs.' 
If so, what are the names of those persons who have received financial assistance in excess of the amounts referred to above. 
If the position is not as stated, what are the names of those persons, if any, who have received financial assistance of lesser amounts than those referred to iti part (1). 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Does his answer to question No. 2703 (Hansard, 30th March 1971, page 1194) stating that for an order in excess of 60 copies of any speech he makes or a question addressed to him and the answer thereto the Government Printer renders an account on the Minister, mean that the Minister must in all such cases pay that account personally, or is the account paid by some department. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What percentage of the gross national product was distributed to (a) private investments, (b) public investments, (c) inventory charges, (d) net foreign trade, (e) private consumption and (0 public consumption in each of the last 20 years for which figures are available. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What are the latest available figures on (a) the total number of unions in Australia and (b) the number of unions with a membership of less than (i) 1,000 members, (ii) 1,000 to 1,999, (iii) 2,000 to 4,999, (iv) 5,000 to 9,999, (v) 10,000 to 19,999, (vi) 20,000 to 29,999, (vii) 30,000 to 39,999, (viii) 40,000 to 49,999, (ix) 50,000 to 59,999, (x) 60,000 to 79,999, (xi) 80,000 to 100,000 and (xii) over 100,000. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What was the total male and female membership of trade unions in each of the States in each of the last 10 years for which figures are available. 
What percentage of total employees did this membership represent in each State. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How many man hours were lost in each of the last 10 years in industries covered by (a) awards of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, (b) determinations of the Public Service Arbitrator and bis deputies and (c) industrial agreements. 
 Mr Speaker,  I desire to make a personal explanation. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
That the immediate prospect in East Bengal is of Mass Starvation on a scale unprecedented in modern times. 
That only quick settlement of the Bangla DeshPakistan conflict will make it possible to avert the death of many millions. 
We therefore urge the Honourable Members to: 
Raise to SI Om Australian aid to refugees now  in  India from East Pakistan. 
Support all efforts to guarantee the fully autonomous development of the people of Bangla Desh. 
Petition received. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Hindmarsh moving a motion. 
It is absolutely essential that the Standing Orders be suspended because unless they are suspended I cannot move the motion: "That the honourable member for Hindmarsh be heard'. The House should want to hear the honourable member for Hindmarsh. So many questions have been asked already about what the honourable member for Hindmarsh said in an interview yesterday that I am surprised and would find it difficult to believe that honourable members, having shown such an intense interest in the honourable gentleman's views on industrial relations, would not want to hear them expounded further. The question of industrial relations is so terribly important that the Parliament should give it a very high priority. The mere fact that the Standing Orders technically prevent a discussion on this important question should not prevent us from dealing with it when all that is necessary is for the Standing Orders to be suspended, [his is why I move for their suspension. If honourable members are as interested in industrial relations as one would be entitled to assume, judging by the number of questions that have been asked, one would expect them to match their interest with some degree of support for the motion that I have moved. The question of industrial relations is not to be pushed glibly to one side. It is absolutely vital to the welfare of this country and when a political party states that it has an answer to the industrial problems of the day this Parliament should want to hear that answer. lt should say: 'We want to hear it because this is a most important thing. This above ail is the thing that is now plaguing the country's economic position and wa want to hear what the honourable member for Hindmarsh has to say'. 
I have already said that I have been misrepresented. If this motion is agreed to I will be able to indicate the extent to which I have been misrepresented and I will be able also to tell the Parliament, if it is interested in the subject, what the Labor Party's policy is, what was propounded at the launceston conference, what I have said about it since, what other people have said about it and why it is that I believe it is the only policy that can save the country from the chaos it is now experiencing. We know, according to well informed reports coming from Government supporters opposite, that the plan of the Government is to provoke some confrontation with the trade union movement, not caring what damage this will cause management, in order that there may be created the kind of political climate which it believes might help it to win an election. This is far too important a subject to be just wiped to one side. 
At no stage did I say that we would impose a penalty of $20 a day on employees. That is the first point. What I said, and what my Party's policy clearly indicates, is that in cases where employees and management enter into agreements, in the event of a breach of an agreement, subject to that agreement being registered - if it is not registered none of these things would apply, but if it is registered, and it cannot be registered unless it is ratified by the employees who have to work under it, it would be a breach of the agreement to go on strike against some term of the agreement which has already been hammered out and settled upon - the amount of penalty that would be imposed would not be the penalty which is stipulated in the Act, now $1,000. I have always made this abundantly clear and I said this at the Launceston conference. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What percentage of all Australian employees is engaged in public employment? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What is the average age at which males in Australia marry. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What was the size of the Australian work force in each of the last 20 years. 
What percentage of the Australian work force consisted of employees in each of the last 20 years. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What amount was paid in salaries and wages to employees of the Commonwealth and its instrumentalities in each of the last 20 years. 
What proportion of the total Australian sal ary and wage payments did this figure represent. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What is the (a) number and (b) percentage of residences in Australia with (i) less than three rooms, (ii) three rooms, (iii) four rooms, (iv) five rooms (v) more than five rooms. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What is the (a) number and (b) percentage of employees in the Australian work force who are (i) unmarried, (ii) married without children and (iii) married with (A) one dependent child, (B) two dependent children, (C) three dependent children and (D) more than three dependent children. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What percentage of the man days lost through strikes concerned employees covered by Federal awards in each of the last 10 years. 
What percentage of this percentage related to (a) wage disputes, (b) managerial policy, (c) union membership, (d) victimisation and (e) other matters. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
When will the August 1971 issue of the Industrial Information Bulletin be available for distribution. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
In what year did the Commonwealth first begin paying child endowment to Commonwealth Public Servants. 
What was the amount paid in respect of each child. 
What percentage of the then basic wage did that payment represent and what is it today. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What percentage of (a) the total workforce and (b) employees in the workforce was employed in (i) agriculture and allied trades, (ii) manufacturing and mining, (iii) building, (iv) commerce, (v) transport and communications and (vi) services, etc., in each of the last 5 years. 
Can he give quinquennial statistics of the same particulars since, say, 1930. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the comments made by the Industrial Registrar during a seminar held at the University of New England in May 1971 that short-term industrial agreements superimposed on the awards of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and endorsed by the ACTU or a Trades and Labour Council may well be the device used In the 1970s to reduce industrial unrest. 
Does the Government agree with the Registrar's prognosis; if so, what plans are intended to provide statutory accommodation for the anticipated trend. 
The Opposition supports this Bill which arises from the amalgamation of the North Australian Workers Union and the Federated Miscellaneous Workers Union of Australia and for arrangements made, in consequence of that amalgamation, for the Waterside Workers Federation to take over the activities in the Port of Darwin. Now that the workers who would formerly have been members of the Federated Miscellaneous Workers Union are members of the Waterside Workers Federation and are part of the stevedoring industry it has become necessary to make consequential amendments to the Stevedoring Industry Act so that these workers will attract the full benefits of the legislation. Therefore I formally state to the House on behalf of the Opposition that it will not oppose the Bill but will support it. 
I will say no more but will leave it to my colleague the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  to speak on behalf of the Opposition. For many years the honourable member was a high executive officer of the Waterside Workers Federation. He has made a study of the industry and is probably one of the best versed men in the waterside industry in Australia. I do not suppose that there would be any other man in any other Parliament in Australia who would know anywhere near as much as the honourable member for Sturt knows and understands about the stevedoring industry. I hope that honourable members will give him the attention that be deserves. They will learn a lot. I therefore conclude my remarks and look forward to hearing the honourable member for Sturt. 
 I compliment the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  on the contribution he has made. What he has said is of vital importance to this nation, and unless we heed the words of men like the honourable member for Moreton this country will get further and further into the morass that is now threatening to engulf the whole of our industrial relations. However, I do not agree with his view that the findings of the Constitutional Review Committee provide the answer. The Committee made the mistake of not really understanding the true High Court interpretation of the word 'industrial'. So we have to avoid, in any question put to the people by way of a referendum, any reference to limiting the powers that we seek in relation to industrial disputes. 
I suggest that what we must do is to alter the Constitution in order to enable the Parliament of the Commonwealth to establish industrial machinery for the resolution of all questions relating to, and the determination of, the terms and conditions of employment and the terms and conditions of contractual relationships with independent contractors; to extend Federal jurisdiction to State-employed teachers, nurses, police officers, fire fighters and the like; to give to the Commission power to grant applications for a common rule for all employers in a particular industry; to abolish the present system under which judicial and arbitral powers in industrial matters must be exercised by different bodies; to enable the Federal jurisdiction in industrial matters to be exercised by State industrial tribunals and wage boards; and to limit the High Court's power of intervention to cases where a question of law is referred to it. 
Under the present Constitution we are in the ridiculous position that we have powers as a parliament to make laws with respect to and concerning conciliation and arbitration for the prevention and settlement of industrial disputes extending beyond the limits of any one State. We have a whole host of High Court cases  -  162 since Federation - trying to determine what the words 'conciliation' and 'arbitration' mean, and what is meant when we say 'prevention or settlement of disputes'. The word settlement' was thought to be an easily understood term. It was easily understood, I have no doubt, at the time the Constitution was written. No-one then had any doubt as to what was meant by an industrial dispute. But look at the decisions of the High Court since then. We find that industrial disputes' did not mean what the founders of this Federation thought the expression meant and intended it to mean but means something entirely different. 
We have to move and we have to move quickly. I hope that the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  will do something about this. It has been suggested by the Industrial Registrar that there ought to be a royal commission, on which commission there should be represented parties from the employers, the unions and other interested parties to work out exactly what powers we need so that when the question is framed and put to the people by way of referendum the powers that we eventually get from it will bc sufficient to do what we have to do. 
The honourable member for Moreton was quite right, too, when he took us back to the kind of Australia that existed at the time of Federation when these laws were first hammered out. At that time we were faced with only one kind of industrial dispute of any magnitude that we thought we would need to deal with. That was the great maritime strike which, because it was interstate in character, could not be dealt with by any parliaments of any of the individual sovereign States. 
The States had in mind more particularly perhaps the numerous shearers' strikes which preceded and followed the maritime strike. In fact, the maritime strike flared up, ended and did not recur. However, the shearers' strikes went on. They occurred in 1891, 1892, 1893 and 1894. There was the great shearers' strike of 1902 in the dispute between the Australian Workers Union and the Machine Shearers Union when, as a consequence of the alteration in 1901 to the New South Wales Industrial Arbitration Act which came into force in February of 1902, the 2 unions sought registration to cover the one field. The Australian Workers Union wanted to prove to the shearers that it was more militant than the Machine Shearers Union, which was correctly dubbed by the Australian Worker Union a bosses' organisation. So there was an outbreak of strikes all over the colonies. The States were not precisely colonies then but they had not realised it. 
There is a ridiculous situation now, as I shall show. We go to a theatre to see a play and a fire breaks out. We read in the newspapers next day a report about the fire and how someone came and put it out. However, the following situation emerges: The person who sold the insurance policy to the person who owns the theatre is covered by the industrial powers of the Commonwealth. The High Court has said so. The actors who were on the stage when the fire broke out also were carrying on industrial pursuits, according to the High Court. The journalists who have written about the fire and whose reports are published next day in the newspapers are carrying on industrial pursuits. However, the person who has come along and put the fire out is not covered by the industrial powers of the Commonwealth because he is not, according to learned judges of the High Court engaged in an industrial pursuit. 

 Mr Justice Walsh alone of all of the High Court judges could see that the test that ought to be applied is not what the employer's industry is but what is the calling of the employee. If that test were applied fire fighters would be within the scope of the Commonwealth's power to deal with industrial matters concerning that industry. .School teachers cannot ba covered by the industrial powers of the Commonwealth, if they are employed by a State government but they can be covered if they are employed by a private school. Nurses cannot be covered if they are employed in a government hospital; they can be covered if they are working in a first aid room of an ordinary factory. A policeman cannot be covered presumably for the same reasons but a person who is doing policeman's work in the Metropolitan Security Service can be covered. The whole thing is quite ridiculous. 
The honourable member for Moreton has correctly drawn attention to the position of the common rule and the difficulty of establishing that a dispute exists. What a person has to do now is to show that he served a log of claims on the other side and that he has until the end of the dispute kept within the original log. Unless the log of claims is wide enough to take care of any eventuality that might arise from the serving of the original log to when one decides to serve another 18,000 logs on the pastoralists of Australia, then one is out of court. So what he has to do in order to keep within ambit is to make a claim for $200 a week in wages, a 25-hour week and triple time for overtime, and other exaggerated claims. Then we have the position as enunciated by the 
High Court which said that there is no power within the Commonwealth Constitution to deal with managerial policy. Yet, more than 50 per cent of the industrial disputes and man-days lost are as a consequence of managerial policy or disputes arising therefrom. 
We cannot settle a demarcation dispute unless we can show that the original log of claims related to the demarcation dispute. As  Mr Justice  Dixon said, a man would need remarkable foresight, when he lodged his original log of claims, to be able to see in 10 years time that there was going to be a demarcation dispute in one of the factories in one of the States and unless one can do that then one is out of court. In 1930 the Scullin Government believed that the establishment of conciliation committees would answer a very urgent need for conciliation in the pastoral industry and other industries like it. The High Court said that this could not be done, conciliation committees consisting as they did of laymen could not exercise judicial powers of the Commonwealth. Since the Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration at that time was still a judicial body, all of its powers were treated as judicial and there was not any way of determining or producing a dichotomy of power that then existed. So these conciliation committees were tilled invalid. 
I believe that the greatest mistake ever made was when the boilermakers won the 1956 challenge to the arbitral powers being exercised by a judicial body. It is absolutely ridiculous that judges who make awards are not the ones given the responsibility of interpreting them. One presidential member makes the award and he sends the interpretation of it to a foreign body to tell the parties what the motives were, what the spirit was of the settlement of a particular dispute. This is an urgent thing. This transcends in importance all other aspects of industrial relations. Unless this Government and the government that follows it next year moves, and moves rapidly- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Commonwealth Electoral Officer for the State of Queensland will this year conduct an election for certain positions in The Australian Workers' Union and that some of these positions, namely, Delegates to Annual Convention, are to be elected on the basis of one delegate for each 4,000 members or part thereof, of the organisation in the Queensland branch of that organisation. 
If so, is it also a fact that the membership register of the Queensland branch of The Australian Workers' Union, a federal organisation, includes the names of persons who belong to the State registered union, The Australian Workers' Union of Employees, Queensland, and that many thousands of these are employed in industries or callings not covered by the Constitution and rules of The Australian Workers' Union;if not, does each of the organisations keep a separate register of its members. 
If there is no separate membership register for each of these two organisations, how will the Electoral Officer determine the number of Delegates which the Queensland Branch will be entitled to elect to the Annual Convention of The Australian Workers' Union, and how will he ensure that only those persons who qualify for membership in The Australian Workers' Union, and who are, in fact, financial members of that organisation, are supplied with ballot papers in the election for positions in the organisation. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What are the names of (a) First Division officers and (b) Second Division officers who have held their present positions of authority for more than 10 years. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What are the procedures laid down for the enforcement of federal awards by Arbitration Inspectors. 
Have representations ever been made to the Minister or officers of his Department during the past 10 years by employers to prevent a prosecution for breach of a federal award; if so, with what result. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
On how many occasions has the Minister exercised his powers under section 170a (6) of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to determine that the cost, or portion of the cost of a branch election of an organisation conducted under section 170 of the Act at (he request of the management committee of a branch should be borne by the Commonwealth. 
Which branch of which organisation was concerned and in which year was the election held, in each case. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Was the matter of Australia's providing training facilities for Cambodian troops raised with him by any representatives of the American, South Vietnamese or Cambodian governments when he was in Saigon this week? Did he raise the matter with any such representative? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
When will the Annual Labour Report for 1970 be available for distribution. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What was the percentage of the gross national product at factor cost which was made up of wages, salaries and supplements in each year since 1950. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What is the average family of children under (a) 14 years of age and (b)15 years of age, compared with the year occurring at the beginning of each decade prior to 1970. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Will he bring  Dp  lo date the information on the names and tenure of clubs in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea and the guarantees to them which his predecessor provided on 17th April  1963  (Hansard, page  693). 
Which of these clubs (a) are precluded by their rules from admitting, or (b) have not yet admitted indigenes as members or guests. 
I present the following petition: 
To (he Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble peititon of the electors of the Division of Hindmarsh respectfully sheweth: 
That the determination as to which young men are required to undergo compulsory military service under the National Service Act 1951-1968 is arrived at by a ballot system based upon arbitrary grounds as to their date of birth. 
And that this procedure providing for selection by a method of chance is an unfair and arbitrary imposition on the human rights of a minority and discriminates against certain of the young male persons in the community in favour of others solely by reason of their respective dates of birth. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Section Twenty-six of the National Service Act 195 1-1968 be repealed. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound will ever pray. ' 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Dues the Government give financial orphysical assistance to the (a) Australian Institute of Management, (b) Australian Institute of Personnel Management, and (c) Australian Administrative Staff College; if so, how much assistance has it given in each of the last 5 years. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Why is it that Labor Day is not recognised as a paid holiday in the Northern Territory. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Has any employer in (a) the Australian Capital Territory or (b) the Northern Territory been granted an exemption from the compulsory insurance provisions of the relevant Workmen's Compensation Ordinance. 
If so, what are their names and how many employees are employed by each of them. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What are the categories of employees excluded from Workmen's Compensation Ordinances covering (a) the Australian Capital Territory and (b) the Northern Territory. 
Are any of these categories excluded from the provisions of all of the State laws dealing with Workmen's Compensation; if so, what are the categories. 
If the categories are not excluded from the State laws, why are they excluded from the provisions of the Ordinances of the two Territories. 
asked the Minister  for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
On how many occasions in each of the last 20 years has a member of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission directed an Arbitration Inspector to institute proceedings against an employer for breach of an order or an award of the Commission. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How many Part X agreements, were certified in each of the last 10, years, and what was the nature of penalties incorporated in these agreements, for non-observance of the agreement. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What was the percentage of employees in each State who received the average weekly wage, or more, in each quarter during the last 10 years? 
I ask a question of the Minister for Labour and National Service. I preface my question by reminding the honourable gentleman that yesterday during question time the Treasurer, when talking about the official figures issued by the Commonwealth Statistician, said: 
. there has been a bit of a downturn in the rate of increase in wages. They show that there has been an increase in profits from 3 per cent to 6 per cent. 
I think the actual figure was from minus 1 per cent to an increase of 6 per cent. He also said: 
So far as consumer spending is concerned they show that there has been what I might describe as a continuing subdued growth. 
He went on to say: 
In private investment for the year up to" the September quarter there has been a growth of 14 per cent, compared with the previous year. 
It gives me great pleasure to rise in support of the motion ' moved by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  I am glad to know that the honourable member has changed, his mind on this question because he was among the Government supporters who voted for the imposition of the tax when it was first introduced and until now he has given no indication of any disapproval of the Government's action. The honourable member tor Angas, like any other member of this Parliament who knows anything at all about the wine industry, knows perfectly well that the industry is almost the only primary industry left that is able to stand on its own feet. 
I said 'almost". Beef is another industry but wine is almost the only one. The number of prim  acy  industries that  aTe  able to stand on their own feet without government assistance are dwindling in number all the time. Indeed, literally thousands of secondary industries are able to stand on their own feet only because of a great deal of government assistance they receive by means of tariff protection. 
Australia produces the finest wines in the world. Our wines are infinitely better than wines that are produced on the Continent in spite of what people from the continental countries might say. Yet, this wonderful Australian industry, which dates back to 1840. and perhaps even before that year - In South Australia the industry dates back almost to the foundation of the colony - is being crippled by a tax that is not yielding good returns of revenue. 
In fact, it is losing revenue. I want to congratulate the honourable member for Riverina on the magnificent exposition of the Government's weak position which he has given to the Parliament. There is no honourable member in this Parliament who has stated the case for the wine growers and the wine makers so eloquently and with such compelling logic as the honourable member for Riverina has consistently done ever since he has come here. The wine growers and the grape growers of Australia have in the honourable member the most effective representative that this Parliament has ever seen. Never before have we seen an honourable member who has graced this chamber with such eloquence on behalf of these people. 
Let us have a look at the ridiculous situation we have in Australia in respect of the wine industry. We have a flat imposition of excise duty on wine which means that cheap wine, when the excise was first introduced, carried a burden of up to 33 per cent. This was the percentage rate of the tax which was placed upon cheap wine, the wine that the ordinary working man has to drink. The only wine that the ordinary working man can afford to consume usually is flagon wine. When this imposition was first placed upon wine he had to pay a tax of the order of 30 per cent. According to the honourable member for Riverina, the ordinary man still has to pay; 1 think, 25 per cent. Is that what the  bon.ourable  member for Riverina said? 
What is the tax on a flagon? 
I am obliged to the honourable member for that information. 
As we have heard, in some cases it is 50 per cent. I notice that the honourable member for Angas has interjected to say mat the imposition in some cases is 50 per cent. Therefore, although my original statement of 30 per cent sounded outrageous when it fell from my lips, I now realise that this was an understatement of the true position. Expressed as a percentage, what is a tax of 8c on a bottle of expensive imported French or Italian wine? It would be about 1 per cent or 2 per cent. Therefore, it is just outrageous and indefensible for this Government to carry on with the present situation. 
I am of the opinion, and no-one will convince me to the contrary, that the Government's sole reason for introducing this tax on wine was to placate its wealthy backers from the brewery interests. Everybody knows that the breweries of Australia are heavy contributors to the Government's campaign funds, and why would they not be? Why would they not want to see this Government returned year after year when through this Government they are able to cripple their competitors? They are crippling their competitors in the wine industry in this way. The former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  gave the game away only a few moments ago when he said that it was not fair to have a tax imposed on one kind of alcoholic beverage and not upon another. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What percentage of total man-days lost through industrial disputes occurred in industries covered by Federal awards during the past 20 years. 
What action can the Commonwealth take to deal with man-days lost through industrial stoppages in industries covered by State awards, determinations or agreements. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How many man-days have been lost on account of (a) political strikes and (b) industrial disputes in each State during each of the last 5 years. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
On how many occasions in each of the last 20 years has the Industrial Registrar taken proceedings against an employer ' for breach of an award. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Member of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in Soulh-West Tasmania, is threatened with inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which if implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area are of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural state. All present and particularly future Australians will benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wilderness area. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The Opposition will support and vote for this Bill but I shall make some comment which I hope the Government will note because when another Bill is introduced next year, the year after or whenever it becomes necessary to readjust the salaries of these statutory offices the Opposition will, I hope, take the same note of what I think are shortcomings in the presentation of this Bill and will expect the government of the day, if it does not do it without prodding by the then Opposition, to see that a clear statement is given of the existing salaries compared with the proposed salaries so that the Parliament will have an idea of what actually has occurred. In this Bill, in some instances the proposed increased salaries are tied directly to one of the levels of the Second Division of the Commonwealth Public Service and it is easy to follow those increases but, on the other hand, it is not so easy to follow the reasoning and logic of the Gov.enment's decision in fixing particular salary ranges. I take on example - I have not had time to do more than look at one, and it is not necessary to look at more than one - to make my point. 
It is proposed to increase the salary of an ordinary conciliation commissioner appointed under the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act to SI 6,250. the present salary being SI 1,850. The proposed increase is considerably more than $4,000 a year. This breaks away from the general pattern of most other increases which range between 14 per cent and 15 per cent. The House should take note of what has happened to the salary range payable to conciliation commissioners. When the office of conciliation commissioner was established in 1947 it carried a salary of £1,500, the government of the day believing that the current parliamentary salary of f 1,500 was an appropriate salary for a conciliation commissioner. The government consciously tied the conciliation commissioner's salary to the then parliamentary salary of £1,500, and the salary remained at that figure until 1950. It also happened, by coincidence, that in 1947 the lowest level officers of the Second Division of the Commonwealth Public Service were being paid a salary of £1,539. When the position of conciliation commissioner was introduced the salary payable for that position was virtually identical with the salary of a private member of the Parliament and with the salary paid to the lowest level of the Second Division of the Commonwealth Public Service. 
On 4th May 1950 Second Division officers had their salary increased to £1,856 but the salary of the conciliation commissioner remained at £1,500, which meant that it was lagging by £356 when compared with the lowest level of the Second Division. In December 1950 when the conciliation commissioners had an increase of £300, bringing their salary to £1,800, officers on the lowest level of the Commonwealth Public Service Second Division were given a salary of £2,933. Here was an example of the Second Division officers leaping ahead of the conciliation commissioners by £1,133. On 7th June 1950, the conciliation commissioners were lifted to £3,000 and the Second Division officers received a small rise, bringing their total salary to £2,957. This gave them a salary less than that of the conciliation commissioners. In December 1956, the Second Division officers - when I refer to the Second Division, I will be talking about the lowest level of that Division - received an increase bringing their salary to £3,500. Nothing was done for the conciliation commissioners; they remained at £3,000 until 1960 when they received an increase of £875, giving them a salary of £3,875. This meant that the conciliation commissioners had leapt ahead of the Second Division officers by £375. 
In December 1963 the Second Division officers received an increase bringing their new salary to £4,313. However, because the conciliation commissioners remained on £3,875, the Second Division officers were placed £438 ahead of the conciliation commissioners. So, on 25th June 1964 the conciliation commissioners received an increase, bringing their salary to £4,700. The Second Division officers received a small increase lifting their salary to £4,365 which meant that they were then £335 behind the conciliation commissioners. In December 1964 the conciliation commissioners found themselves with a salary that was still unchanged, as they had received previously in the same year an increase. However, the Second Division officers, ever alert to any changes that appeared tn put them .at a disadvantage with comparable levels, were able to convince the Arbitrator that the salary rate they should receive was £4,802, thus giving them £102 more than the conciliation commissioners. Then, on 6th July 1967, by which time we were in the dollar era, the Second Division officers received a further small increase to bring them to $9,657, while the conciliation commissioners were still receiving $9,400. On 7th November 1968 the salary of the conciliation commissioners was lifted to $11,850, which is their current rate. The Second Division officers' salaries were increased to $9,728. On 14th January 1971 the Second Division when to $12,531 and, at present, it is proposed that they should move to $14,375. However, this time the conciliation commissioners are to have their salaries increased from $11,850 to $16,250. 
I am not here attempting to identify where the error lies. I am not here attempting to identify the fault or to say whether, for example, the Second Division officers should have been paid more than the $14,375 or whether the conciliation commissioners should have been paid less than the §16,250 that it is now proposed to give them. All 1 want to say is that high ranking Public Service and statutory officers in the Commonwealth of Australia are no different from any other section of the community. When they see the wage structure being distorted by maladjustments - and that is what these must be - it is certain that they will demand a restoration of relativity, lt would surprise me greatly if the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association does not very shortly make an application to the Commonwealth Public Service Arbitrator for an increase on the recent increase of 15 per cent to bring the salary of the lowest level Second Division officer from $14,375 to $16,250. If J were the Secretary of the ACOA, I would feel that ] had an answerable case for the salaries of the lowest level officers in the Second Division of the Public Service to be lifted to $ 1 6,250, because it is possible to go back as far as 1947 - 24 years ago - and follow through the rate which the Second Division officers received. It was always a little above or a very little below - usually a little above or sometimes well above - the salaries paid to the conciliation commissioners. They are entitled to feel that they have been badly treated by the Commonwealth Public Service Arbitrator in that they received only a miserable 15 per cent increase, or something like $2,000, when the conciliation commissioners received an increase of $4,400. 
The wage structure of Commonwealth Public Service officers cannot continue to be distorted vis-a-vis that of the statutory officers in this way. The Government will only buy trouble for itself. What is necessary is a Commonwealth Public Service Board review of all of the top echelon rates in the Public Service as against the rates applicable to the statutory officers. Where the Board finds that there is a distortion, as so obviously there is in the rates to which I have referred, it must be remedied. Unless this is done, the Government will buy for the Commonwealth Public Service and for itself a lot of trouble. I have had time to look at only one case. Perhaps it is the only one where such a distortion can be found. I shall say no more about this case but I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard the table from which I read so that it can be studied. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How many breaches of Federal awards were detected by Arbitration Inspectors in each of the last 10 years for which figures are available in respect of (a) failure to keep proper time and wage records, (b) failure to guard machinery properly, 
Se) failure to obey apprenticeship regulations and dj employment of women or girls on prohibited operations. 
In how many,cases of each of the Foregoing breaches did the Commonwealth (a) prosecute and (b) succeed in securing a penalty against the employer concerned. 
What was the fine and what were the costs ordered against each such employer. 
asked  the  Treasurer,  upon  notice: 
What is the number of employees in the Australian work force whose weekly wage is less than (a) $48, (b) $49, (c) $50, (d) $55, (e) $60, (f) $65, (g) $70, (h) $75, (i) $80, (j) $85 and (k) $90. 
The speech delivered by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  must be seen as a review of the Government's capacity or otherwise to handle industrial relations. In this sense it must also be seen as an admission of miserable failure to understand and resolve the issues that are at stake. It must also serve as notice of an early election next year, with the Government deliberately creating industrial unrest for political purposes in order to deflect public opinion from the real issues, which are rising prices and massive unemployment. There can be no doubt about who is to blame for the fact that our industrial laws have failed and are out of date. The blame must be placed squarely on the shoulders of those who have held control of the Parliament for the past 22 years - the Liberal and Country Party Government. It is they who have had the power to make workable laws - and it is they who have failed to do so - since 1949. 
Just as the Government has failed to understand and solve industrial relations in the past, so it will fail in the future should the people of Australia be foolish enough to re-elect this inept and indecisive Government at next year's election. The Government has always displayed a general disregard for the welfare of the  4i  million men and women employees of the nation's workforce. It is this failure to understand the position of the working man that is preventing the Government from distinguishing between cause and effect. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  does not seem to realise that demands for increased wages are really caused by rising prices. The Government does not seem to realise that when sales tax is increased the price of the goods affected is increased not only by the full amount of the sales tax but also by an additional mark up for profit. For 22 years this Government has maintained its stubborn indifference to the inflationary effect of resale price maintenance. It was not until the Australian Council of Trade Unions succeeded in forcing Dunlop Australia Ltd to abolish resale price maintenance against Bourke's store in Melbourne that the Prime Minister was forced, unwillingly, to act against its inflationary effect upon the economy. 
For 22 years this Liberal-Country Party Government has watched our conciliation and arbitration machinery slowly grind to a stage of near collapse before bothering to take its first half-hearted step towards ascertaining the causes of that collapse. Even at this late stage we are offered no more than a speech designed to hoodwink the country into believing that the Government, whose policies have caused the current collapse, should be entrusted with reforming the system. Some of the proposals outlined by the Minister are quite laudable, but one would need to see how they will appear in Bill form before one could take the risk of indicating support for them at this stage. Some of these proposals which, at first blush, appear to be reasonable and to be of some advantage include broadening the qualifications of a presidential member so that persons other than lawyers can be appointed as presidential members. I would like to see economists, sociologists or somebody of that nature appointed. 
The Government says it will strengthen the law protecting employees and unionists against victimisation. This is a law that has been crying out for attention for years, ever since the 1959 Gietzelt case in which the Miscellaneous Workers Union was involved. The Government says it will alter the law to enable unions to register rules requiring union members to give written notice of resignation. This is another case that has been crying out for correction ever since the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association case was determined by the Commonwealth Industrial Court in 1966. The Government is going to strengthen the inspectorate. I am pleased to hear that but I would like to see what it does with relation to that before I express full agreement for what is proposed. It is going to upgrade the conciliators. I do not know whether this means it is going to upgrade the conciliators or downgrade some of the conciliation commissioners. It will be interesting to see the real nature of this proposal before one commits oneself to support of it. It will expedite the making of orders, which is good if it means what it says. The Government will extend the industrial powers of the Act to cover the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, which is good. The Government will attempt to correct the anomalies caused by Moore and Doyle, but it will not succeed because these anomalies cannot be fully corrected, by the Commonwealth alone, although the Minister, to be fair to him, acknowledged that, until there is complementary legislation from the 4 State parliaments which will have to be involved. 
The Government will alter the law regarding the challenge of elections that have been conducted by the Registrar. This is good and long overdue. The Government will stipulate that a challenge to an election conducted under union rules shall be made within a specified time. Depending, of course, upon what the specified time is, that is a good amendment and would have to be supported. The Government intends to wipe out of the Act the limitation now placed upon the accumulation of sick leave. That is an excellent idea and should have been adopted years ago. There is no doubt that the number of man days lost because people are not prepared to see accumulated sick leave go down the drain is now quite astronomical. If people were allowed to accumulate sick leave indefinitely or, after a period, were paid in cash for accumulated leave they are not likely to take, this must have a beneficial effect upon industry generally. The Government proposes to limit the right of lawyers to appear in conciliation proceedings, which again is an excellent idea. 
On the other hand, the Government proposes to alter the law to give it the right to intervene in reference and appeal cases so as to keep arbitrators under the thumb of the Government, lt means that any decision given by a conciliation arbitrator that runs contrary to Government policy will be appealed against and the Government, with the full force and majesty of the law, will intervene on behalf of the employer. But worse than that is the innuendo or the suggestion - I hope it is no more than a suggestion - that where parties enter into industrial agreements under the auspices of a conciliation arbitrator, these will also be subject to appeal with the Government intervening before the Commission. Then it proposes also to give protection to ticket dodgers by the deregistration of unions which force those who benefit from union activity to pay their share of the cost and to fine an employer who seeks to prevent or to settle a dispute by dismissing a free rider and to allow non-unionists access to the award making process of the Commission. I cannot understand this. The Government itself says that nobody is entitled to get the benefit of medical benefit funds or health funds unless he joins a medical benefit fund; and yet here it says that a person can get the benefits of trade unionism without paying anything at all. 
The Government proposes moreover to allow the dual registration of persons engaged in similar industries. Whatever the word 'similar' eventually will turn out to mean, goodness only knows, because like the words 'public interest' it will be someting that will take a fair bit of defining. I can see that people who work as labourers in a winery will be entitled to join either the Australian Workers Union, the Liquor and Allied Trades Union, the Miscellaneous Workers Union or perhaps even the Builders Labourers Federation. One could go through the whole gamut of the kinds of people who could be covered by that kind of an alteration to the registration procedure. We could have people joining all sorts of unions which they are now not entitled to join. I hope it does not mean what the Minister's speech would entitle one to suspect that it does mean because that will result in utter chaos. 
Secret ballots, the Minister says, will be only marginally affected by the proposed legislation because he admits that there is provision already in the Act which allows for secret ballots to be ordered by the Commission at any time it likes. The Act even provides that there shall be 6 months imprisonment for anybody who attempts to impede the taking of a secret ballot. What more power should be needed than the power already in the Act is beyond my comprehension and 1 will be surprised to see how this works. The Minister's speech skirted around the subject of political strikes. The Government proposes to use another section of the Constitution to deal with this matter and it will be very interesting indeed to see what new fields of Commonwealth power might be opened up in this area. It may be that the Government will find that it has opened a Pandora's box here and that some of the things it seeks to achieve will not be possible and that others that it did not want to achieve will be possible. How on earth it is possible, for example, to use that power to stop workers under a State award from going on strike for more social services? Social services surely cannot be regarded as part of the Commonwealth's trade and commerce powers, and therefore I think the Minister will find that a lot of thinking will need to be done before an amendment of this kind will be made feasible. 
It is proposed to retain the abrasive and totally discredited strike penalties of the Act providing for a SI. 000 on an individual or organisation. Section 32a will be amended to make it mandatory for a presidential member of the Commission to issue a prosecution certificate against any union that refuses to call off a strike, no matter how justified the strike may be. Remember that the Act will also be amended to prevent the presidential member from having any right to conciliate. He cannot, when he brings the parties together to hear a section 32a application, attempt to conciliate. He has to arbitrate, and if the union says that it intends to stay on strike, he will be obliged by the mandatory provisions of the Act immediately to issue a prosecution certificate and the matter would then go to the Industrial Court for prosecution . The Minister's intention to collect within 14 days the $4,200 still outstanding must guarantee that there will be a dispute over this. There is an innuendo in the Ministers speech that in future whenever penalties are imposed the unions concerned will be given no more than 14 days in which to pay those penalties. It will be interesting, however, to see just what the Minister intends to do to implement this. 
Hie disputes settlement procedures, which the Minister said he felt disappointed about, have been adopted in far more awards and agreements than he appears to be aware of. There are scores of awards, agreements and consent awards in which the settlement procedure clauses have now been introduced. It is doubtful whether some of them are valid - those that have been registered since 24th June last year, when the new legislation came in and which required presidential certification for anything that resembled a bans clause - but the fact still remains that many awards and agreements have incorporated in them today these settlement of disputes procedures. These procedures will not work. I said at the time they were first proposed, that they would not work and the reason they will not work is that there is not proper protection against the victimisation of shop stewards and union delegates on the job. It is too easy nowadays to victimise a shop steward, and unless a shop steward is free to have a face to face confrontation with his employer it is not possible for him to be a representative spokesman for his employees. 1 can see - the Minister virtually suggested it - that it will not be long before the settlement of disputes procedure clauses which now rest upon the mutual acceptance of them by both parties, will be put into the awards and agreements arbitrarily by the Commission, and this is when the trouble will start. 
What  we  want to know is: Where is the legislation to correct the defects of the present law? Why must Parliament be content wilh a mere recital of the all too evident events that so clearly confirm the failure of the present system. When did the Government first discover that the system was not functioning as it should? When did it commence its review of the system'/ These are questions that I have had on the notice paper for months and to which I still have not received answers. But the answers should be easy to give. The Government ought to know when it first discovered that the Act was not functioning and it ought to know when it started to review the present system to see what could be done. Either the Government does not know or it is going to keep it a dark secret for some time yet. If the Government had observed the need for reform at the time when nearly every other section of the community first became aware of its defects, why did it not act at least 10 years ago? Why has it been content merely to play politics with such a complex and sensitive area of government responsibility as industrial relations when the prosperity of the whole nation depends upon sensible solution of the problem? 
And why has the Minister ignored, as his predecessor ignored, the warnings of the  President  of the Arbitration Commission,  Sir Richard  Kirby? For 2 years in succession now,  Sir Richard  has offered to confer with the Government on the question of strike penalties and on the operation of the Act generally. The Government has refused even to talk to him.  His  predecessor dodged the question throughout last year. He ignored 3 questions which I placed on the notice paper, saying firstly that  he  would not tell me who  he  talks to and then saying that if  he  did  he  would not tell me what they talked about. But according to the President's report the Minister did not talk to him at all. So it was not from answers to questions on notice that I finally got the answer I was seeking. It came from the  President  himself. I doubt very much that the present Minister has yet spoken to him or if he has he apparently has not taken much notice of the  President.  The refusal to seek the advice of a man with so much background in this field invites only one conclusion, that is that the Government's only interest in industrial affairs is in finding a way to create an industrial confrontation, to cause a breakdown in industrial relations, in the hope that this will create the right climate for a fictitious political campaign on the issue of industrial law and order. 
Even employers are starting to see through this device. Why else would the director of the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures,  Mr Ian  Macphee, have felt compelled to issue a warning last month that an election fought on industrial issues would lead to even greater social and industrial disarray? ls this government, which has provided the underlying causes of industrial unrest? Of course it is not. This is not government. This is chaos. The Government has failed to use economic planning to prevent rising prices or to prevent unemployment, which is now expected to reach 120,000 by early next year. Rising prices, are the prime cause of union demands for a wage rate that will enable employees to prevent a catastrophic decline in their living standards. The Government ignores the cause to deal with the effects. Mass unemployment, it seems, is the Government's only solution for dealing with industrial unrest. I say that such a policy is a disgrace to a modern community. A Government that has nothing better to offer than a continuation of industrial strife and which then tries to blame unions for inflation, deserves to be thrown out of office, and that will surely be the fate of this Government no matter when the election is held. 
Will anyone deny that the real causes of current industrial unrest are rising prices and the intolerable rate of taxation that falls upon the family man? I challenge the Prime Minister to draw up a household budget showing how he would meet the basic needs of living in today's so-called affluent society or bringing up a family to have decent opportunities in that society, on the present average weekly earnings of $89.70. The last quarter's average weekly wage of $89 would not pay for the last dinner that the Prime Minister had at Chequers', much less pay for the food, clothing, school books, fares, medical expenses, house rent and hire purchase payments that the average family man has to find every day of the week, each week of the year. 
Or a new dress, as my friend the honourable member for Grayndler says. The condition of the 2 million-odd employees whose income is less than the average weekly wage is now quite intolerable. I am permitted to make only a passing reference to the one million pensioners and others on fixed incomes who receive less than one quarter of the average weekly wage. However, I want the Parliament to understand quite clearly that well over 60 per cent of all employees in Australia are receiving much less than the Statistician's average weekly wage which, for the year 1970-71 - that is for the whole 12-month period - was only $84.70. But always remember that this figure that the Statistician uses includes all overtime and supplements and is arrived at after lumping all of the under $50-a-week bracket of employees in with company managers, cabinet ministers, judges, top public servants, business executives and even the Prime Minister on his 'paltry' $800 a week salary. It is all thrown into the pool to help arrive, at what is the average weekly wage. The Statistician's average weekly ( earnings figure grossly distorts the true  picture as it actually relates to nearly 3 million employees. How, indeed, do these employees, who receive only $50, $60 or $70 a week, cope with rising prices? They can get no wage adjustment until their unions are able to prove to the Arbitration Commission that prices have already risen. Until they can do that they can get no further rises in wages. They never receive wage increases in anticipation of rising prices. Clearly, therefore, increased wages are not the cause of inflation; they merely reflect it. To refer to the economic danger of wage induced inflation associated with industrial unrest, which according to the Minister is the real cause of inflation, is sheer nonsense. He says nothing about inflation associated with restrictive trade practices, excessive profits, crippling taxation and exorbitant interest charged and the many other things for which the working man is not responsible. He says nothing about that at all. He blames the whole of inflation on rising wages. 
To accuse the Arbitration Commission of granting excessive wage increases is to ignore the facts. What are the facts? Has the Government not observed the steady increase in over-award wages? Of course it has. It has observed it and complained about it. But doss not this clearly indicate that the awards of the Commission are below the market or going rates of wages? How else docs  one  explain the fact that employers are willing to grant higher wages than the minima fixed by the Commission? Union pressure, says the Minister. Well, yes, of course, union pressure, otherwise they would get nothing. But what motivates union pressure? The motivation almost invariably comes from the factory floor rather than from the union office; and it springs from the outcome of the hopeless task of the ordinary worker trying to live decently on a fixed wage, while prices and taxation are constantly rising. Every time there is an increase in wages there is an increase in taxation. So the worker is competing with rising prices as well as with rising taxation. To put it in another way, while wages go up the staircase prices always go up the elevator. Strikes - and I use the term the Minister talked about, 'the tip of the iceberg' - are but the lip of the industrial relations iceberg that shows above the surface. They are symptons of injustice and when they occur the cause must be examined and eradicated. 

 Dr Ian Sharp, the Industrial Registrar, and perhaps the most knowledgeable man this country has produced in the field of industrial relations, recently told an industrial seminar at Armidale that he was convinced that strikes are rarely inspired by union secretaries, but are nearly always the result of pressures from the mcn at the work site. 1 was secretary of the biggest union in South Australia and I can speak from personal experience when 1 say that I agree entirely wilh what  Dr Sharp  says. It is simply not true to say that union secretaries can force unionists to take on  a  fight-to-the-finish strike unless there is first of all a deep feeling of grievance at the floor level. Strikes mean sacrifice. They can lead to financial ruin and even starvation. Talk about strike penalties! The strike is the heaviest penalty a worker can inflict upon himself. lt carries crippling financial and social penalties. 
The Prime Minister may succeed in fooling himself into believing that strike ballots are all that are needed to stop or settle disputes, but non-one wilh a knowledge of the facts will gainsay that a compulsory strike ballot would almost invariably produce an affirmative vote for strike action- 
Endorsement of it, exactly, as my friend says, and thus have the effect of hampering rather than helping in settlement. With all the strikes that have occurred since the Liberals last came to power in Canberra in 1949, the Government has not once seen any merit in putting to use the provisions contained in section 45 of the existing Act. These allow for the Commission to order a strike ballot at any time it deems fit to do so. 
Of course the Ministers knows it, but he is not being honest when he says that this new amendment will produce the panacea for all our trouble. 
That is  a  good interjection. Perhaps he thinks a strike will become legal. Of course that must be the outcome if a strike ballot conducted under the auspices of the court produces a result in favour of a strike. 
That is another good interjection. In fact the only occasion on which the court has used this section to conduct a secret ballot was in 1929 in the timber workers strike when, in answer to the question 'Are you prepared to work under the existing award of the court dated 23rd January 1929?' the strikers voted: Yes, 732; no, 5,318 and informal, 43. No wonder the Minister looks surprised. No wonder his surprise has now turned to an expression of disappointment when he realises that this is not the answer. But what happens when employees vote for strike action? Will the Government accept that decision? Will it allow that decision to be over-ruled without holding another ballot? If it will, what is the point of the Government's case? What is the whole point of the exercise? Does the Government believe that a strike ballot will end the Atlantean bus dispute? Does it not realise that the existing rules of the Bus Employees Union allow members to demand a vote of all members whenever it is asked for? Does it not realise that, in fact, this is exactly what happened on 29th November when, in response to a petition of only a handful of members for a vote in order to test the wishes of the rest of the union, the unions members voted 3,440 to 12 in, favour of refusing to operate one-man buses. 
Of course it was by show of hands and, of course, if a secret ballot were conducted by the court there would have been some variation in those figures but it would not really have altered the result. Plenty of unions have conducted secret ballots to decide whether their members are in favour of strikes. The Vehicle Builders Union recently had a secret ballot and the union members overwhelmingly supported a strike. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Birrell),  a former secretary of the Vehicle Builders Union, can verify what I say as being correct. I know of some shop stewards who will welcome strike ballots because their complaint at the moment is that paid officials are sabotaging their desire to strike. They want to strike and they say it is the union officials who are stopping them. Will they not welcome the idea of secret ballots so that they can force their officials to support them whenever they secure a majority of votes in a ballot? If the decision to strike or not to strike is to be decided by ballot of the rank and file members of unions there will be more strikes, not fewer. 
When an arbitration system fails to dispense wage justice, employees have but one solution, and that is to strike, lt remains the only weapon that is left to the 4.5 million Australians who have nothing but their labour to sell. If the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  really wants to know the cause of industrial tensions, let him consider what  Mr Justice  Powers said when delivering judgment in the basic wage case in 1921. That was 50 years ago, but the position has not changed one iota. The learned judge said: 
One of the Court's functions is to prevent industrial disputes. To prevent industrial unrest the cause must be removed. One of the chief causes of discontent is the misery suffered by those I refer to-- 
He was referring to men on the low wage level -  and unemployment, which is more difficult to meet. Another cause of widespread discontent is that this Court- 
I ask honourable members to note these words -  can only make the workers share the losses in times of depression, and it has no power to increase wages in times of prosperity when enormous profits are made in some industries. Industrial peace can only be secured if the causes of the discontent and unrest are removed. 
The Minister referred to the gaining of the 40-hour week, paid annual leave and sick leave. I remind him that the 40-hour week, paid annual leave, paid sick leave, payment of full wage compensation during incapacity, paid public holidays and long service leave were secured originally because of strike action. The Arbitration Court acted only after the men were able to prove that they were strong enough to secure these benefits without arbitration. It is a truism that the working man will get from arbitration only what he is strong enough to take anyway. There have not always been strike sanctions, as the Minister tried to suggest. It is simply not true to say that there have always been strike sanctions in the Act. For more than 20 years the Act operated exceedingly well without strike sanctions. 
I have referred to the occasion when  a  judge said that the court can only make workers share in the evil effects of depression and cannot give to them the benefits of great prosperity. Is this not the very thing that happened in the great depression of the 1930s when Chief Justice Dethridge ordered a 20 per cent reduction in shearers' rates when the then current award had another year or more to run? Is it not also true that the system is now being used to prevent employees from getting the maximum that the present market will yield? The Minister spoke of the economic consequences of court decisions. 1 remind him that there was a time when, under the Arbitration Act, a judge was required to look at the economic conditions of a particular industry when awarding increases or decreases in wages. When in 1930 the Scullin Government sought to remove that provision from the Act in order to prevent Chief Justice Dethridge from reducing the shearers' rates on the grounds that the pastoral industry could not afford it and it was announced that the matter had been raised in and presented to the Parliament by means of a Bill, Chief Justice Dethridge said, in effect: T do not care what the Parliament does. It can remove this provision if it wants to do so but I will still have regard to the economic condition of the pastoral industry'. 
How can the Government seek to impose upon the court the proposition about which it is now talking? Of course the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission will have regard to the economic consequences but how is anyone to prove whether it has done so or not because a statement by the Commission to the effect that it has done so becomes conclusive evidence of the fact and there is no way by which the Government can countermand it. The Government cannot go to the High Court to get an order for mandamus because the High Court would have to be exercising arbitral powers in the definition of economic matters before it could grant the order. Since the High Court judges do not know very much about the law in some respects, because they will turn the law upside down every now and again, how on earth can the Government expect them, even if they did have arbitral powers, to decide what the economic consequences of a decision of the Commission might be? It is only window dressing. It is an attempt to try to bluff the Commission into refusing wage claims. Or does the Government intend that the Commission shall take as conclusive evidence of truth everything that the Government says about the economic consequence of a decision. Is the Government saying: 'If you do not agree with what our counsel submits is the economic position your action will be ultra vires the Act and therefore will have to be set aside'? Just how does the Government intend to use this strange power it is now talking about? 1 inform the Minister that nobody loves' a strike for strike's sake. The very need to strike is deplored most of all by union officials and by rank and file trade unionists. Some judges, some politicians and some newspaper editors behave as though workers indulge in strikes for the pure love of a row. They forget that when men cease work their wages also cease. There is a need for wages whether a man is working or not. They forget that the landlord still holds out his hand for the rent. The hire purchase companies still demand their weekly instalments. The grocer, the baker, the butcher and the milkman must be paid; and, unless payment is forthcoming, there will be no food for the employee's family."The family's needs do not diminish just because the breadwinner is on strike. 
Strikers cannot possibly be put in the position of ordinary violators of the law. Even when it is true that they are breaking a statute, the psychology of criminality is entirely absent from their action. Yet in Australia, the striker is automatically  a  criminal. Australia holds the disgraceful distinction of being the only English speaking country in the whole world where the right to strike can become an offence punishable by heavy fines and imprisonment. It is the only country in the socalled democratic world which permits  a  judge to fine an ordinary worker $1,000 or $500 a day for each day he is on strike. There is certainly no other country in the whole world, thank goodness, which has a statute such as in Australia which permits a judge to impose an aggregate penally of $2 12m on the 28,000 employees of General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd should they ever repeat their 15 day strike of 1964 while at the same time limiting the penalty far a 15 day lockout of 28,000 workers to  a  maximum of $7,500. So, the penalty on the 28,000 workers would be $212m and the penalty on General Motors-Holden's pty Ltd for the same offence in reverse would be 87,500. Is this justice? It is outrageous that such a thing as this is allowed to continue in a country that claims to be a democracy. 
How can the rights of man be properly respected in a society which tolerates this kind of attitude to labour? There has always been a deep seated conviction in communities which call themselves civilised that in the last resort men should be free to refuse to work under conditions that are repugnant to them. I repeat that the right to strike is the first right of a free man. All over the world, where any love of liberty survives the despotic tendencies of feudalism or monopoly capitalism, men cherish the right to throw down their tools in protest against some grievance too great to be borne by free men. The Minister's own father engaged in strikes time after time because he believed that when a man had imposed upon him conditions that were insufferable he should have the right to strike. I wonder what he thinks of the law that is now proposed by this Government. So intense is this sentiment in the United Kingdom and in the United States that organised labour there will have no part in the system of compulsory arbitration which has become so remarkable a feature of the Australian way of life. British and American trade unions will abate no fraction of their right to strike. They refuse to entrust their freedom to a legal apparatus. 
It is not often that I am able to use a quotation from a Republican  President  of the United States to support my own views but General Eisenhower is also on record as a defender of the right to strike. In an address to the American Federation of Labour Convention in September 1952. Eisenhower declared that he favoured the right to strike, declaring quite properly that the abolition of such a right would be the loss of freedom that was absolutely basic to democracy. He said that the contest between labour and industry cannot be abolished without abolishing economic freedom itself.  President  Eisenhower said: 
The right of men to leave their jobs is a test of freedom. Hitler suppressed strikes. Stalin suppressed strikes. But each also suppressed freedom. There are some things worse than strikes, much worse than strikes - one of them is the loss of freedom. 
Eisenhower was, of course, correct in pointing out that the hallmark of the police state is the loss of the right to strike. A man's right over his own body is surely a basic human right. The right to withdraw his labour is the one thing that distinguishes the free man from the slave. This is a fundamental freedom. But had  President  Eisenhower been alive to witness the present rising level of unemployment in Australia, I am sure he would have said that unemployment is also a worse evil than strikes. He could have pointed to the aimless economic policies of the McMahon Government as causing an infinitely greater loss of production through unemployment than all the strikes put together for the last 10 years. The prospect of 120,000 unemployed by the beginning of next year will represent a 60,000 increase compared with last year. In terms of production, the increase alone represents a loss of 15 million man days compared with an estimated 3 million man days that will be lost through strike action this year. It is not the trade unions that are causing the greatest loss in productivity. The real culprits are the McMahon Government. 
In terms of lost production, this country loses much more from industrial accidents and disease than from strikes. Last year 4 million man days were lost on this account. Two-thirds of this loss could have been avoided if only the Government would follow the American example of cooperating with the States in establishing a uniform method of recording the incidence and cause of industrial accidents and disease. And, having identified the cause, the Government should then seek to use the power of State and Commonwealth authorities to codify and to enforce safety requirements. Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and several other leading employers have already effected some quite extraordinary reductions in the incidence of industrial accident. From 1950 to 1967 BHP's accident frequency rate reduced from 50.2 per one million man hours worked to a mere 3.4, a total reduction of 93 per cent. What BHP has been able to do, every other industry could do because BHP is an industry where the element of risk to life and limb and to health is very great. 
The toll of personal injury is one of (he disastrous incidents of social progress and calls for a co-ordinated response from the nation as a whole. Towards this end a Federal Labor government will act to establish mandatory occupational safety and health provisions applicable (o all employees who constitutionally can be brought within Commonwealth jurisdiction, and will assist the States to do the same in areas of State jurisdiction. A Labor Government will bring in for Commonwealth employees, and for employees in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, a Compensation Act that will guarantee to people during incapacitation the full value of their normal weekly wages. We will establish a bureau of industrial statistics to compile and record uniform statistics concerning industrial safety and the cause and incidence of industrial accident and disease in various industries in each State and Territory. With this information to guide it, a Labor government would provide research relating to occupational safety and the provision of training programmes to increase and improve personnel engaged in the field of occupational safety and health. 1 would like to see a uniform code for industrial safety equal to the best provisions to be found in the various Slate Acts. If the Arbitration Commission could be prevailed upon to include these requirements in Federal awards, and given an efficient inspectorate acting in co-operation with trade union officials to police and enforce such awards, the safety standards of many States would be upgraded so as to drastically reduce the present high accident rate in Australian industry. We will have to wait for perhaps generations before we get the Tory-crusted old gentlemen of the Upper House of South Australia to agree to any worthwhile change in the industrial safety regulations of that State. But if it could be done through the Commonwealth Commission, then at least those workers in South Australia covered by Federal awards would be guaranteed some measure of industrial protection. 1 have already said that it is estimated that nearly 4 million man-days of production is now lost through accidents and disease. It is estimated that nearly 75 per cent of this could be eliminated by government action. It is a disgraceful state of affairs that in 22 years of continuous Liberal Government in Canberra, we have not yet got uniform accident statistics. These statistics are vital in any move to cut down on the present accident rate which, in money terms alone, is now costing our country $ 1,000m in productivity each year. The Minister's speech completely ignores the industrial safety of employees, as though the loss of 400 lives and 4 million man-days every year has nothing whatever to do with industrial relations. 
Unemployment and industrial accidents are having a far greater effect on productivity than are strikes. The forgotten man of industrial relations,  Sir Richard  Kirby, the  President  of the Arbitration Commission, said in his annual report, tabled in this House only last week: 
I am well aware that most Australians accept as a fact that strikes and threats of strikes havebeen increasing over recent years but I doubt if this acceptance is well based if increased population and work forces are taken into account Nevertheless although there is cause for some concern in this regard it should be remembered that the important thing for Australia as a ti adina nation is how the rest of the world with which she is competing is behaving in similar fields. 
I need only quote from the 1970 figures compiled by the International Labour Organisation, to which the Minister himself alluded, to answer  Sir Richard's  question as to what is happening in other parts of the world. It is said that because of industrial action Australian lost 810 man-hours for every 1,000 workers over a full 12-month period. The United States lost 1,390 manhours for every 1,000 workers, Canada lost 2,550 man-hours for every 1,000 workers and Italy, which the Minister forgot to mention altogether, lost 4,400 man-hours for every 1,000 workers. The Minister admits that there has been a worse record in other parts of the world in order to make a case for retaining the existing strike penalties, but conveniently forgets, when he puts the next record on the gramophone to tell the people listening how badly the workers of Australia are behaving and that they are losing too much time, that the total number of man-hours lost in Australia last year averaged only four-fifths of one day per person. To listen to the Minister one would think that everybody in Australia was on strike every second day. 
As the honourable member for Sturt says, Government supporters are nothing but calamity howlers. The Government's obsession with strike sanctions has caused it to ignore these things and to treat penalties as the only end that the Government ought to consider. 
-It creates strikes. I have already said that there is not one reason why the workers want to strike just for striking's sake. Strikes cause too much suffering to the strikers and their families. To suppress strikes is impossible in a free society. To want to do so is unforgivable. To attempt to do so has the effect of pouring petrol on a fire. Men strike because tyranny and injustice have not yet disappeared from human affairs - they have merely shifted the venue - and because the spirit of freedom still lives and will not yield even to the law when the law becomes an instrument of class oppression. 
As a general rule the economic position of the individual worker is too weak for him to hold his own in the unequal contest for a fair share of what he produces. As  Mr Justice  Higgins said in 191 1 : 
The power of the employer to withhold bread is a much more effective weapon than the power of the employee to refuse to labour. 
The right to hire and lire gives to the employer an inbuilt power of discipline over every person he employs.  Mr Justice  Higgins once remarked on the fact that although in theory the Court had power to decrease wages as well as to increase them, every case he had ever handled had been to interfere by way of increase. Then he stated: 
The reason seems to be that the employer usually needs no Court to enable him lo reduce wages - he has simply to refuse to give employment at wages which he thinks to be too high.  1 wonder what would happen if a union sought an order under section 33a in order to include in an award a clause banning or prohibiting an employer from dismissing surplus staff; I wonder whether it could get a certificate under section 32a in order to have the employer prosecuted before the Commonwealth Industrial Court if he attempted to dismiss surplus staff. During the hearing of the waterside workers case on 9th September 1919, Judge Higgins said that he adhered to the view he had expressed in the 1917 waterside workers case when he said that it was not a breach of the award for an employee to refuse to accept work if he did not like the conditions. He said that the minimum rate was the lowest rate at which an employer could employ men, but the whole areas beyond the minimum wage was open to bargaining between employers and men. 
This is no longer the position in Australia. This Government treats the minimum wage as the maximum. Any attempt to bargain for something higher than the arbitrary minimum can bring a fine of $1,000 or $500 a day or even imprisonment. Although it is a long-established tenet of the common law that an agreement made under duress is unenforceable, the Prime Minister apparently sees absolutely nothing wrong with using duress to enforce the minimum wage rates arbitrarily imposed upon trade unionists. It is little use talking about the rule of law, as the Minister did when he made his speech, when the law applies repressive rules against those with only their labour to sell while the sellers of petrol, steel, tobacco, liquor, soap, frozen foods and scores of other items are free to make their own rules. 
The right to strike is not merely a favour or a privilege but should be a legal right based upon natural justice. The BHP has the right to fix the price of steel and to withhold supplies if the price is not met. The medical profession fixes its own fees and has the legal right to sue those who refuse to pay. Dentists, opticians, architects and persons in like professions do the same. I have even heard of members of the legal profession fixing their own fees. I understand that only 2 or 3 weeks ago in New South Wales they increased their fees by a mere 50 per cent. Retail emporiums have the right to sell their goods at a certain price or refuse to sell them at all. Shipping companies, banks and hire purchase companies all fix their own charges for the services they provide. But no-one accuses BHP or the oil companies or the shipping cartel or the insurance companies or the doctors of violating the law when they do these things. 
The right to bargain is absolutely meaningless without the right to strike. Even with this right preserved, the worker is at a decided disadvantage. I repeat what  Mr Justice  Higgins said: 
The power of the employer to withhold bread is a much more effective weapon than the power of the employee to refuse to labour. 
In the great maritime strike of 1890 it was starvation, not strike penalties, that drove the workers back to work. Starvation, and now hire purchase as well, still stands on the side of the employer. 
Having defended the right to strike, let me now distinguish between striking against arbitrary awards and striking against freely negotiated voluntary agreements. But, before doing so, I want to say that the main thing in an industrial dispute is to get the parties talking to each other and to see that the talking takes place before each side takes up a fixed, unalterable position. The strike weapon should always remain the last resort, to be used only when negotiations, mediation or conciliation have broken down. 
We will always need some system of compulsory conciliation and arbitration for fixing enforceable minima in wages and conditions. We need it because hundreds of thousands of employees belong to unions which, without the Commission, lack the industrial power to demand even minimum wage rates. To abolish the Arbitration Commission altogether would be to abandon more than one-half of a!l employees in Australia to the tender mercies of their employers. A Labor government will not do that. I see this country irreversibly committed to a movement towards collective bargaining under which the strong unions will negotiate industrial agreements based on specified rates above the awarded minima. A government that does not accept the inevitability of this phenomenon is just refusing to read the signs- 
-It is an ostrich and is unfitted to steer the ship of state through the stormy seas of the 1970s. Collective bargaining cannot be stopped. It can, and must, be accommodated. lt is fundamental to a successful system of collective bargaining that voluntary agreements, freely negotiated, be honoured by the parties thereto. No agreement can be said to have been freely negotiated when the law stands firmly on the side of the employer in readiness to impose savage penalties against the representatives of employees whenever they refuse to accept unacceptable terms. In order that voluntary agreements may be freely negotiated, a Labor Government will repeal all penalties for strikes and lockouts against arbitral decisions of the Commission. No award could then lawfully include a clause designed to restrict the right to strike, but all other clauses of an award would remain enforceable by appropriate penalties. I repeat that all clauses of the award would be enforceable but it would be unlawful to put a clause into the award prohibiting the right to strike. There have to be sanctions on employers and employees who commit a breach of a lawful provision of an award or agreement. For example, an employer who pays less than the awarded or agreed rates, should be penalised. An employee who works for less than the awarded or agreed rate, or who breaches safety provisions of an award, ought to be penalised. Many other examples could be given to justify penalties for breach of award or agreement. But in no circumstances - no circumstances at all - should an employee be fined for striking against an arbitral decision imposed upon him against his will. 
For the 10 years ending in 1969 employers in Australia committed no less than 72,084 breaches of award. Yet, legal proceedings were instituted in only 210 cases. In 1970, the Government prosecuted 8 only of the  5,957 employers who were found to be in breach of awards. In the previous year the position was even worse, when only 2 prosecutions were launched against the 5,577 employers who committed breaches of awards. This is the action of a Government, mark you, that talks so much about industrial law and order. A Labour Government will see that an efficient inspectorate is established so that all who violate a lawful provision of an award are prosecuted without fear or favour. It should not be left to the unions themselves to have to meet the cost of prosecuting employers who are in breach of their industrial obligations. This is the function of government. 
With the repeal of penalties against strikes and lockouts against arbitral decisions of the Commission, both parties would then face each other across the negotiating table on equal terms. Their final decision, once approved by the union members affected should, when registered, be honoured by both sides and should carry the force of an award so that the wages and conditions of the agreement could be recoverable at law. This would provide the climate in which the ALP system of industrial relations will work. It is the Labor Party alone which can handle this situation. 
We in the Labor Party have just finished a long process of devising a programme for industrial relations. Some of us have encountered obvious difficulties - myself included - on at least one occasion. But the end result of this has been the creation of a programme which will work. With any difficulties we might have encountered behind us, we are ready now to give this country an industrial system suited to the times, instead of the patchwork of proposals which the Government has now improvised. Our system will emphasise voluntary agreements. The ACTU has already declared that it will take whatever steps are necessary to ensure the observance of all agreements made under its auspices. It will use the moral sanctions of the whole trade union movement against a union that tries to repudiate a freely-negotiated industrial agreement. In this way it will be able to guarantee the kind of industrial stability that unions and employers alike have been looking for. 
The ACTU has declared that it will refuse to incorporate strike penalties in any agreements made under its auspices. But it acknowledges that members of a particular union have the right to make their own agreements and these may include penalties. This will leave unions free to accept - with the agreement of their members - penalty clauses in voluntary agreements if they believe this will win them better wages and conditions. Many unions have already done this. It would be left however to the parties themselves to decide whether or not, and if so, what kind of enforcement provisions should be incorporated in agreements and to decide whether such agreements should be registered or not. There would be no statutory compulsion to force a union to make an agreement and no compulsion to force a union to register one. 
To assist parties to reach agreement, there should be a panel of mediators and arbitrators of whom one can be chosen by unions and employers concerned to assist them to reach agreement in settling or preventing disputes within them independently of the Arbitration Commission. The system has worked extremely well in Canada and other countries and it ought to be tried in this country. These mediators and arbitrators are paid generous fees when chosen to act in a dispute, but are not otherwise paid at all. This means that only those who build reputations for absolute fairness are chosen to mediate or arbitrate because their engagement always depends upon their nomination by all parties to a dispute. 
The general principle of honouring a voluntary agreement is one that cannot be repudiated. It is fundamental to better industrial relations that agreements should be honoured. Unions and employers have a moral obligation to abide by their agreements and I can see no reason why parties acting in good faith will object to agreements being legally enforceable. I can truthfully say that I know of no union official in the Commonwealth who will attempt to justify the repudiation of an agreement. On the contrary, of the 14 union officials attending the Launceston Conference, each and every one of them authorised me to make the public declaration on their behalf that they would honour any agreement they made under Labor's proposal. The ACTU has never repudiated an agreement, and has always ensured the observance of agreements made under its patronage. It is a national tragedy that our industrial system has been allowed to reach a state of near collapse before anything is done to grapple with the problem. 
Now let us turn lo the specific proposals foreshadowed by the Minister tonight. First of all, they will simply perpetuate the basic weaknesses of the present system. At this fundamental level, where is the originality of outlook that is needed? Where is the recognition that industrial conditions and relation have changed drastically since the last major review of the arbitration system which the Minister concedes was made more than 15 years ago? Neither is there. Worse than that, the Minister's proposals will achieve 2 other main effects. They will create the type of industrial confrontation which the Government so clearly wants for cheap electoral purposes. They will discourage obstinate employers from negotiation. They will be instruments of repression rather than reason. Take the proposal to strengthen the provisions for the issuing of certificates under section 32a of the Act. I have already dealt with that and will say no more about it. The issuing of a certificate, by a presidential member of the Arbitration Commission is the first step towards penal action being taken by the Commonwealth Industrial Court. At present, presidential members of the Commission often refuse to issue a certificate or adjourns an application for the issuing of a certificate. The reason for this is that it clearly recognises that some strikes are based on just causes and have been brought about by the refusal of an employer to accede to just demands. To issue a certificate automatically in these circumstances could only be unjust. By adopting this flexible approach, the Commission tries to ensure that a harsh and obstinate employer cannot come running to it to protect him from the logical consequences of his own actions. 
Now the Government has decided to compel the Commission to abandon its flexibility. A presidential member will only be allowed to delay the issuing of a certificate; he will not be allowed to refuse it altogether or to delay it indefinitely because of special circumstances. Knowing this, many employees will refuse to negotiate reasonably, as they will know that as long as they can hold off a settlement the Commission will have to start the processing leading to penal action against unions involved in any dispute. Thus a union may have a complaint against an obstinate employer - a complaint which the Commission would consider just. Why should that employer listen to reason when he knows that this new provision will give him automatic protection even if he treats his employees with such contempt that they are driven to strike? And, in this context, we must note that the Minister has announced that there will be no changes in the level of penalties provided by section 119 of the Act. I suppose we should at least be thankful that he has not proposed increased fines. But remember that the fine which can be imposed under this section is 31,000 per person or organisation. 
Combine this with the other change, and it means that a union which is forced into industrial action by an unjust employer will be liable to the type of penalty that is envisaged by section 119 of the Act. Penal sanctions are not the answer to industrial problems. When they are applied in this way, they can only mean industrial chaos. Against this background of Government thinking, it is not surprising that the Minister has announced his intention of collecting the outstanding $4,200 in fines. He knows that this will cause further industrial chaos. He obviously wants a confrontation with the unions and is dragging out this relic of the past for that end and that end only. This is not being done to maintain law and order; it is being done to perpetuate injustice and create disorder. 
If the Government thinks that industrial peace can only come about through antiunion action it is wrong. And yet we have only to turn to another section of the proposals to see that this is its stance. The Minister has announced in vague terms that the 'voluntary nature' of unions will be emphasised in the Arbitration Act. What he clearly has in mind is preventing unions and employers reaching voluntary agreements to ensure that all employees in business belong to a union. For the unions, this type of agreement has its undeniable validity in the fact that it wins benefits in wages and conditions for all employees and that it is reasonable that anyone who receives these benefits should be a member, unless he has compelling conscientious reasons for not doing so. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I seek leave for an extension of time of 5 minutes. 
The Opposition supports the amendments. We agree with the remarks of the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz).  Unless these amendments by the Senate are accepted there will be no salaries at all for certain statutory officers. The Senate has rejected the increased salaries that were proposed in the Bill, which was passed by us "and which was sent to the Senate. Those salaries have been rejected overwhelmingly and decisively. Unless these amendments are adopted, certain statutory officers will not receive even the salaries that they were receiving previously. They will receive no salary at all. For that reason, we accept and agree with the motion moved by the Leader of the House. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice:  lt is a fact that the incidence of over-award payment is increasing each year; if so, what was the increase in each of the last 5 years? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What was (a) the output per man-hour and (b) the real wages per employee-hour in the .nonagricultural sector of Australian productivity in each year since. 1950. 
As one who came into the Parliament at the same time as the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  and the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  and as one who has enjoyed the help which  Mr Turner  has given me from time to time, I should like to say something about  Mr Turner.  One thing about him that 1 think should be placed on record is that at no time would any member of the Parliament from either side have cause to feel that a conversation in confidence with  Mr Turner  as to tactics - since 1 have been here my tactics have been devoted entirely towards defeating the Government - would ever reach the ears of the other side. This was proved on many occasions by the fact that the Prime Minister was so often taken by surprise when clever moves by myself and my colleagues were implemented as a consequence not of partisan advice but of straight advice from the  Clerk  as to what the law was and what the Standing Orders provided. 1 will never forget the look of amazement on the face of the present Prime Minister once when I moved a motion that was designed to throw him off guard. He has not really recovered from it. I do not think the Prime Minister should blame  Mr Turner  for this because I was the one who originated the idea. He simply low me how to do it. In any event, there is nothing much that the Prime Minister can do about the matter now. 
I hope that  Mr Turner  will feel free to visit the House and to be in the precincts of the House as often as he likes - not to come occasionally or in the distant future, as somebody suggested we might be fortunate enough to see him. I hope that his good lady will come here quite often and not feci that she has to wait to be asked to visit us as was suggested, not by intent, by some  speaker. Mr Turner  looks very young because he only has to count votes and does not have to win them. I congratu-  late him for succeeding in getting in on the salary rises before the rises start to go down.  His  timing was excellent. 1 cannot think of a belter way of doing it . than the way he has done it. I am sure that he will be the envy of many First Division officers in the future. Of course, as an honourable member interjects, he will be the envy of many back benchers. 
I am pleased that we have following  Mr Turner  our good friend  Mr  Parkes. I never felt free to speak to either  Mr  Turner or  Mr Parkes  on Christian name terms. I never got to the point which my friend  Mr 
Cope has reached but he, of course, being a  Deputy Chairman  of Committees has an advantage over we lesser mortals. But I am pleased that  Mr Turner  is being succeeded by  Mr Parkes  because I will feel free to go to him with clever little plans to deal with the Government, just as 1 felt free to go to  Mr Turner.  I know that next year when the Opposition tries to put clever little plans over the Government we on the Government side will not have been given the slightest inkling of the plans that are afoot. But that will not worry us because most of us have been brought up in the hard school of union politics, and plans which appear to be clever to the present Government will not appear to be clever to the future Government. I hope that  Mr Turner  will have a happy retirement.  I  hope that he will come along here often and that he will be as free with his advice in the future as he has been in the past because I will be ready to accept it. 
1 want to say something about the remarks made by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  w'.-.en he sought to defend the extraordinarily high salaries that had been set for certain statutory officers at a time when the Government was calling upon the ordinary wage plug in the community for restraint. Here we have a government which is telling the man getting $50, $60 or $70 a week that he has to be content to accept that wage and no more and telling the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission that it cannot increase the minimum national wage of $47 a week because the country cannot afford it, while at the same time he is recommending increases in salaries amounting to several thousand dollars a year. This is just the kind of thing that this county is complaining about. The Government has no right to stand up in this place and fix salaries as high as $29,000 a year for certain statutory officers and certain other people employed by the Commonwealth who are indicated in this Bill, with increases ranging as high as $6,000 a year or $120 a week, and then have the check to tell the Arbitral on Commission that the ordinary family man has to try to maintain a wife and family on a miserable $47 a week. 
Why, the average weekly earnings in Australia over the last quarter were only $89 a week. That is an average arrived at by lumping together the salary thai lnc Prime Minister himself gets, about 88UU a week, plus the salaries of the people he is now proposing to increase to $29,000 a year with the salaries of the poor de.. ls who have to try to maintain a family on $50 or $60 a week. It is a disgrace. I he Government has no right to come into mis place and talk about restraint on the part of the poor devil getting $50 or St.O a week with a family to maintain, educate, feed and clothe while in the same breath it has the hide to come into this place and ask us to approve of salaries as high as $29,000 a year for other people. These people who are already getting $22,000 a year are well able to meet the Government's demand for restraint. They are hatter able to respond to the Government's call for restraint than are the poor devi's on $50 or $60 a week. It is the height of hypocrisy for the Prime Minister to sit there and grin - 
How can I when there are people on $50 or $60 a week trying to maintain a family while this man is on $800 a week and telling others to restrain themselves and keep down their wage demands, lt is an absolute disgrace. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
On which occasions has the Industrial Registrar granted a request by the committee, of management of a branch of an organisation for an election to be conducted under section 170 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act for the election of delegates to represent that branch at an annual conference being the governing or rule making body of the organisation. 
Are these delegates officers of (a) the branch or (b) the organisation. 
On how many occasions has the Minister determined that portion of the expenses connected with the kind of election referred to in (1) above be borne by the Commonwealth in accordance with section 170A(6.) of the Act. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Has he considered the suggestion made by the Industrial Registrar,  Dr Ian  Sharp, that a commission of inquiry constituted on a CommonwealthState basis and including management, unions, lawyers, economists, academics and representatives of both Commonwealth and State Governments be instituted to consider such matters as trade union law, over-award payments, penal sanctions, the need for constitutional amendments and other problems that have arisen in recent years. 
If so, what action does the Government propose to take in the matter. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a paper published in March 1971 in the Journal of Industrial Relations, Sydney, by  Mr Ian  Macphee, then of the New South Wales Chamber of Manufactures and now of the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures, condemning those who believe that the ACTU  President, Mr R.  J. Hawke, is responsible for the present industrial turbulence and stating that those who see  Mr Hawke  as a bogyman are becoming engaged in an exercise of self-delusion. 
If so, did he also note that  Mr Macphee  made the plea that the Government must resist the temptation to turn the bar table into  an  election platform. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
On how many occasions has the Court acted under sub-section (6.) of section 152 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to order the alteration of an organisation's register of members. 
Is it  a  fact that persons not entitled to membership in  a  federal organisation are in fact being included in thi federal register of members of some organisations, and are recording votes in elections for office in the organisation. 
If so, why has no action been taken to purge the registers of names of persons ineligible for membership. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
When did the Government first become aware of the need for a general review of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
When was the review commenced. 
When is it anticipated that the Government will be in a position to present to the Parliament a BM to give legislative effect to its conclusions. 
If he is unable to formulate his proposals for presentation to Parliament during this period of sittings, will he request the Attorney-General to grant my request for the assistance of Parliamentary Counsel to enable me to give effect to the proposals already formulated by the Opposition along the lines it believes to be necessary to remove the causes of industrial unrest. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Has he rend the text of an address given to the Institute of Personnel Management in November 1970, by  Mr Ian  Macphee of the New South Wales Chamber of Manufacturers, urging that a duty judge be appointed each month in both Sydney and Melbourne so that when a dispute occurs in a particular industry, and the Commissioner assigned to that particular industry is interstate, or otherwise engaged, the duty judge could ask another Commissioner to act in the dispute. 
Will he discuss the proposition with the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission,  Sir Richard  Kirby, to ascertain whether the proposition can be justified and, in particular, to ascertain whether the  President,  in fact, needs the kind of assistance sought for him by the Chamber of Manufacturers. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Can he give an assurance that the name J. E. Dunford was the only one inadvertently omitted from his answer to Question No. 850 (Hansard, 16th February 1971, page 67). 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What are the names of the unions which were affected by requisitions for controlled elections under the provisions of section 170 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in each of the last 10 years. 
Which of these elections were conducted by (a) the Commonwealth Electoral Office, (b) the Industrial Registrar and (c) any other person. 
Has the Industrial Registrar employed additional staff to assist him in conducting such elections: if so, how many. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act a claim for under-payment of wages must be made within 12 months. 
ls it also a fact that the number of Commonwealth Arbitration Inspectors employed by his Department are insufficient to enable regular annual inspections in their areas of their respective locations. 
If so, what is the (a) average interval between each inspection and (b) maximum period between each inspection. 
Will he consider (a) the employment of sufficient Inspectors to permit regular annual inspections of all places of employment covered by federal awards or (b) amending the Act by extending the period within which claims for wage arrears may bc made. 
asked the Minister  for  Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What was the total number of Commonwealth Arbitration Inspectors employed in each State and Territory of the Commonwealth in each of the last 20 years. 
What was the total number of State Inspectors authorised to carry out inspection of federal awards in each State and Territory of the Commonwealth in each of the last 20 years. 
What sum was paid by the Commonwealth to each of the States as reimbursement for the employment of State Inspectors authorised to carry out inspections of federal awards in each of the last 20 years. 
Do Commonwealth Arbitration Inspectors carry out inspections of State awards in any State of the Commonwealth: if so, what are the particulars. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Will he tell the House whether the letter which he sent to  Sir Ian  McLennan dated 23rd December 1971, which had the approval of the Treasurer and was partly drafted by the Treasurer, was shown to the Leader of the Country Party at the time? If it was shown to the Leader of the Country Party at the time did the Leader of the Country Party approve of its contents? If it was not shown to him at the time, when was it shown to him, if at all? If it was eventually shown to him did he approve of its contents? 
The Leader of the Country Party, the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony),  began his speech by saying that the Parliament needed to understand what the debate was all about and he then went on to say that it was about inflation. I am glad that he knew that because, of course, it is about inflation. Members of the Opposition are concerned about inflation and it is because we are concerned about inflation that this matter of public importance has been raised. Inflation must be condemned and so must the Government, which has now ruled this nation for the past 22 years without a break. In that time it has proven 
Itself incapable of managing the economy of the country in such a way as to prevent inflation and to maintain the rate of economic expansion needed to absorb over 70,000 migrant workers, over 200,000 school leavers and thousands of married women between the ages of 35 and 44 who are desirous of entering the work force. If the present trend continues, the total number of employees who will be needed will begin to fall in absolute terms instead of rising at the rate of 170,000 a year as was the case a couple of years ago. 
The Government must take full blame for the present galloping inflation. Whom else can it blame? It is the Government - the coalition in power that has access to Treasury papers and control of the legislative machinery of the country - which solely is responsible for what has gone wrong. The Government cannot blame the Labor Party. The Labor Party has not had the control of the law-making processes of this country for more than 22 years. So, is it not time that the Liberal and Country Party Government was made to stand up and take the full share of the blame that rightly is placed upon its shoulders? The Government cannot claim any longer that it is the kind of government that can handle inflation. The present galloping inflation proves that it is not a government which is capable of handling the situation. Therefore, it cannot blame the electorate at the end of this year when the electorate decides to elect a new government to replace the present tired, inept and lazy men who now purport to be the government of this rich young country. 
We were asked by the Leader of the Country Party to say what is Labor's wage policy. I do not have time to spell it out in detail, but let me try to state it briefly. Our policy is to narrow the gap that now separates the remuneration received by the 64 per cent of employees in the work force who receive less than the average weekly earnings and the 36 per cent of the employees in the work force who receive more than the average weekly earnings. Wage increases do not cause inflation, as the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch),  tried to insinuate. Wage increases merely reflect inflationary trends that already have occurred. If anyone cares to look at the structure of any average and well-capitalised company he will see at a glance that the cost of running a company - that is. the turnover of a company's output - is accounted for roughly as one-third for wages, one-third for profit and one-third for taxes and other costs. The Government has done more than any person responsible for those 3 factors in production to increase the amount that it costs companies to produce. It has been the Government, more than any other factor, which has increased taxation and has increased the need for increased wages by increasing indirect taxation upon everything that the working man must buy. It is not true to say, as some Government speakers have said, that profits are starting to fall because, in spite of the fact that companies are allowed to wipe off enormous sums of money in depreciation and obsolescence and, now. in investment allowance, companies still are making higher profits this year than they did last year - and they made more last year than they did the year before. With the approval of the House I tender for incorporation in Hansard a list of the 9 or 10 largest companies in Australia showing how all have increased their profits in the last financial year compared with the previous financial year. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What are the hours of duly prescribed in the Public Service Act and Regulations for various classes of Commonwealth Public Servants. 
Does any determination of the Public Service Arbitrator vary significantly from the statutory provisions. 
Approximately how many persons are employed in each class. 
If one class works shorter hours, upon what basis were the shorter hours prescribed. 
asked the Minister  for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Can he say how many countries prohibit the discharge of female employees during maternity leave. 
What is the Commonwealth's reason for failing to take similar action in respect of the Territories of the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
ls he able to say whether the South Australian Government publishes a complete and consolidated copy of all State Industrial Awards in the form of a supplementary gazette. 
If so, will the Commonwealth give consideration to following this example. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Can a union registered under the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act participate as a right in judicial proceedings to which it is a party, through an officer of the union. 
If not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Conciliation and Arbitration Act provides that an employer charged and found guilty of wilful breach of an award becomes liable to a much smaller penalty than if found guilty of a non-wilful breach of an award. 
If so, what is the reason for retaining such an apparent anomaly in the law. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Which are the awards and agreements that now include the tripartite provisions for the settlement of industrial disputes. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How many industrial agreements are now operating between unions and employers. 
How many of these agreements were made (a) under the auspices or (b) with the approval of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. 
How many of the agreements referred to in part (2) contain provisions for penalties in cases of breach of agreement. 
What is the (a) nature of the agreed penalties in each agreement and (b) union bound by each agreement. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service upon notice: 
What was the number of man-days lost in each State through stoppages caused by industrial disputes in each month of 1971 to date. 
What percentage of the total work force was employed in each of the States during that period. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Do female employees in Territories of the Commonwealth who take maternity leave for 3 months or more lose any long service leave entitlements. 
If so, what action does the Commonwealth intend to take for the removal of this injustice. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Can he say what countries have ratified and implemented the 1932 International Labour Organisation Convention and Recommendation for maternity protection of female employees. 
What is the reason for the Commonweatth'3 failure to apply these standards of protection in the Territories of the Commonwealth and to Commonwealth employees. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What are the titles of all (a) registered and (b) unregistered Federal agreements now current in the Commonwealth. 
On how many occasions during the past 10 years has a union breached an industrial agreement. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Can a union whose rules provide for contributions to be paid only yearly in advance prevent a member from resigning at the end of his membership year unless he pays another 12 months contributions in advance. 
If so, how can such a rule operate within the provisions of section 145 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which gives to union members a statutory right to resign at 3 months' notice. 
What are the unions whose registered rules make it mandatory for members to pay their contributions yearly in advance. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
In how many unsuccessful cases launched by union members under sections 140 and 141 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act did the applicants receive financial assistance from the Industrial Registrar under regulation 138. 
In how many of these cases was the financial assistance granted by the Registrar sufficient to meet the applicant's own costs and the costs awarded against him. 
Who are the applicants who were required to meet some of their own and/or awarded costs, and what were the amounts involved. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What are the names of those unions whose total financial membership has fallen since 1956 and what isthe extent of the decline in membership. 
Which are the unions that show the highest percentage increase in membership since 1956. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What is the maximum penalty that the Commonwealth Industrial Court can impose upon an employer who fails to comply with the terms of an award and on how many  occasions has  this Court imposed the maximum penalty provided for under the Conciliation and Arbirtation Act for breach of award by an employer. 
What is the total number of breaches of Federal awards detected by State and Federal Inspectors since 1957. 
In how many of those cases did the Registrar or an arbitration inspector institute prosecutions before the Commonwealth Industrial Court. 
What penalties and/or costs did the Court impose in each such case. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How many man days were lost on account of (a) strikes, (b) unemployment and (c) industrial accident or disease in each of thelast 10 years. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Are organisations registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act required to file with the Registrar an account of receipts and payments of each of its branches. 
If so, are these records available for inspection at the office of the Registrar. 
What are the names of the organisations whose total membership is (a) less than 100, (b) 100 and less than 200, (c) 200 and less than 500 and (d) 500 and less than 1,000. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Which unions made application to register rule alterations under the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act in each of the last 10 years. 
In which of these applications did officers of the unions concerned seek the advice or assis tance of the Registrar in relation to the  rule  alterations (a) before and (b) after the formal application was lodged. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
In which awards made by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission is provision made for preference of employment to the applicant or respondent union. 
In which of these awards is provision made for conscientious objectors to be granted exemption from the preference provision. 
When I prepared my notes for this speech I did not intend to talk about industrial relations because it did not occur to me that the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who preceded me in the debate, would refer to the subject. I did not know that the honourable member for Mcpherson  (Mr Barnes)  would do so. I will commence with some of the comments he made. He complained about inter-union disputes, but the very thing that will prevent inter-union disputes, and in some industries perhaps the only thing that will prevent inter-union disputes, is the amalgamation of unions so that there will be no need for unions to argue over which person does what job. Every member of the union will be available to do any job, and the employer in the industry concerned will not be plagued with demarcation disputes. 1 understand that this issue will be placed before the Liberal and Country Parties at their special meeting tonight. This is the very thing that certain members of the Country Party are opposing in the hope that they will get the second preferences of the Democratic Labor Party. They would prevent this worthwhile, sensible reform within the trade union movement. The Minister for Education and Science complained about employers who give way to wage demands and said that their giving way causes wages to go up. But has it ever occurred to him that this same problem faces people who need food, clothing and the other necessities of life? They either pay the price demanded by the people whom the Minister represents or they go without. 
Now 1 want to refer to a statement made by the Minister for Education and Science about the difference between pegging prices, fixing the maximum price of things that people have to sell, and having the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission fixing only minimum prices for labour. Let me tell the Minister for Education and Science that it was that very thing which the Australian Labor Party set out to deal with when it put for ward as its policy the concept of industrial agreements. The idea of an industrial agreement is that the rate fixed by the agreement not only is the minimum rate but it also automatically becomes the maximum rate. In other words, it is the rate which the employer knows will apply in his industry for the duration of that agreement and that is why he will pay more to get a maximum rate, which becomes the rate for a given period, rather than worry about a minimum rate which may cause an industrial dispute at the drop of a hat - to use another Minister's term - whenever the unions concerned feel that the time is opportune. 
What is the cause of wage demands? I invite honourable members to think over this question. Why do people demand higher wages? Why is it that people on $46.40 a week, which is the national minimum rate, and people on $65 a week, which is what 64 per cent of the entire work force is receiving, say that $65 a week is not enough? Can any Minister produce a budget which would enable a worker or any person the Minister knows who has the right to expect the normal decencies of life to live on $70 a week and pay for house rent, food, clothing, hospital expenses, fares and the other necessaries of life? If he cannot show how a person can live on $70 a week and pay rent and the other things that 1 have enumerated, his government has no right to send counsel to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to oppose the unions' claim for precisely that figure. The Government has no right to expect people to live on a miserable $46.40 a week, which is the present national minimum rate, lt has no right to expect hundreds of thousands of people to live on less than $50 a week - and more people live on less than $50 a week than honourable members imagine. I will take any honourable member into the Library and show him scores of awards and agreements which prescribe rates of less than $50 a week. A person cannot live properly on this amount. 
No government is acting in the public interest when it pretends that $50 a week is an adequate rate, and that is what this Government is doing, all in the name of public interest. It has counsel appearing before the Arbitration Commission, presumably in the public interest. Do not forget that 64 per cent of the public receive $65 a week and they are people who cannot live on the wage that they are now receiving. They cannot live on the wage that the Government is telling the Arbitration Commission they ought to be living on. It is a misuse of governmental power and of the words 'public interest' for the Government, in the name of public interest, to have the hide to send counsel before the Arbitration Commission to oppose an increase in rates to bring the national minimum rate up to $70 a week. Does the Parliament not know that although the average weekly earning is now $91 a week, more than 64 per cent of the public receive less than that average, while only 36 per cent receive more? Do honourable members realise that of the 64 per cent who receive less than the average weekly earnings 22 per cent have 2 jobs and are working as much as 60 hours a week and still receive less than the average weekly wage? 
As the honourable member for Hawker said, the poverty line is more than $50 a week, yet this Government has the hide to talk about public interest. 
Let me return to the question of industrial agreements. When I announced that the policy of the Labor Party was in favour of industrial agreements with over  i  award payments which would fix maximum as well as minimum rates to be observed by both parties for the duration of the agreement, the Government spokesman immediately announced that the Government would have nothing to do with it. Why was this? It was not because it would not work because, in figures which have just been released in an answer to a question I put on the notice paper and for which I waited months to receive a reply, it can be discovered that there are 151 industrial agreements registered in the court and there have been only 14 prosecutions over the last 10 years for breaches of those industrial agreements. Do not tell me that unions will not honour industrial agreements. Do not tell me that when the unions make an industrial agreement they will not honour it. because the plain fact of the matter is that t'_e un ons do honour the agreements. No union secretary 1 know of has ever said that a union has the right to make an industrial agreement for over award payments and then repudiate that agreement at will. It is true that sometimes agreements are repudiated at the factory floor level, but that is because in those cases the agreements were made without the ratification of the people at the factory floor level. That is why the Labor Party's policy on industrial agreements envisages the concept of ratification of the agreement at the factory floor level after it has been recommended to the factory floor by the executive of the union, and not until it is ratified at that level shall the agreement be signed, nor can it be ' 'cred till then. 
The Australian Council of Trade Unions has recognised the need to honour industrial agreements. It has said in clear and unequivocal terms that any union that makes an agreement under the auspices of the ACTU will be expected to carry it out and the ACTU will use the full moral sanctions of the entire trade union movement against any union official who seeks to break or repudiate an agreement made under the auspices of the ACTU. That is a far more effective sanction than anything that can be written into any Act of Parliament, and it leaves only one way in which the agreements can be repudiated and that is if, at the level of the factory floor, the men themselves decide to repudiate the agreement in defiance of the ACTU and of the union secretaries who signed the agreement. When thai is done - when they act in defiance of an agreement which they themselves have ratified, there is nothing wrong with the union writing into the agreement penalties for repudiation of it. That is the attitude 1hat the Labor Party took at its Federal Executive meeting in Townsville. Unions already have agreements with penalties written into them. Neither the Australian Labor Party nor the ACTU can prevent that from being done. It is true that the ACTU can prevent penalties from being written into agreements made under its auspices but it cannot, and neither can any government prevent a union from writing in penalties provided that it has the sanction of its members to do so. 
I should like to remind honourable members opposite, who talk about inflation, and the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  who stated that inflation is caused by wage increases, of an economic fact that cannot be controverted. Wage increases are the reflection of inflation that already has been brought about. They do not come before inflation; they come after inflation, and unless the workers receive an increase in wages once inflation is rampant, their living standards must go down. The Minister for Education and Science talked about public interest and said that the Government would intervene and oppose the 9 per cent flow on to the Third Division of the Commonwealth Public Service. I remind the Minister that some of the people in the Third Division of the Commonwealth Public Service now receive only $68 a week and they cannot live on this wage. This Government has no right to tell people living on $68 a week that they have no entitlement to a flow-on, because how ca 0 people live on this wage? If the Government cannot show how people can live on it it has no right to tell Third Division officers receiving a miserable $68 a week that they should not receive a flow on. This Government does not mind pushing up the salaries of the tall poppies, lt does not mind pushing up the salaries of those who have incomes of the order of $400 a week. They get their increases. There was no question of wage restraint in that instance. But as soon as the bottom rung of the Third Division asks for a 9 per cent increase on a miserable $68 a week the Government calls out for wage restraint. Is it any wonder that people - particularly the 64 per cent of the work force or 3 million employees in Australia - have 'had' this Government and are determined that they will throw it out? 
We now know what the Treasurer meant when on 21st February this year he said: We have achieved what we set out to do in that we have created an environment in which over-award payments are depressed'. That is a statement he will live to regret. For once he was being frank enough to tell the world what the Government's real economic policy is. The Government's economic policy is to create a big enough pool of unemployment to discipline the workers and to intimidate those who are trying to get a decent wage or enough on which merely to live. 
The rate of employment is now being reduced at a speed which, if it continues for another year, will see the employment position in Australia static because instead of increasing at the rate of 171,000 per year, as was the case up to November 1970, the year ended 30th November 1971 saw an increase of only 90,000. If that decline continues, by November of this year the employment position will have reached a static condition and every one of the 203,000 school leavers and the 77,000 migrants who seek to enter the work force after that time will not add to the work force but aggravate the unemployment situation. 
The Leader of the Opposition was understating the position when he said that if the present trends continue the number of unemployed could increase by 50,000. I hope the present trends do not continue because every unit of statistics represents a human being. Many units represent men who have kids to feed and wives to keep. To talk about statistics in terms of unemployment as though one is talking about units of cheese or plastic is to show a complete and utter disregard for the position of human beings. I say that if the present trend continues the situation could easily be reached where unemployment will increase at the rate of 190,000 persons a year. Once the downturn gets fully under way that increase in unemployment will grow worse. 
Sitting suspended from 6.3 to 8 p.m. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Has he read the paper delivered by the Registrar of the Commonwealth Industrial Court,  Dr Ian  B. Sharpe, to a recent seminar on industrial relations, in which he stated that it is very doubtful whether the Commonwealth Parliament had the power to legislate for enforceable voluntary agreements made outside the arbitration system. 
In view of the growing belief on the part of both unions and employers that enforceable industrial agreements may well become the device used in the1970's to reduce industrial stoppages, will he examine the possibility of having the Conciliation and Arbitration Act amended in such a way as to provide for the registration of enforceable agreements that do not involve a dispute or an interstate industrial dispute or the existence of a conciliator or arbitrator. 
All countries with which we like to compare ourselves have now come to realise that technological developments in industry call for massive readjustments in labour needs. A country that ignores these needs is a country that will deprive itself of the higher productivity that technological development can provide. The entire workforce needs to be trained to meet the demands of modern technology and then used where individual contributions will be most valuable. For years now, senior officers of the Department of Labour and National Service have warned the Government that in the field of occupational training, Australia is lagging quite seriously behind the Europeans. In a paper on vocational training which he delivered to the Technical Teachers' Association as recently as January last year,  Mr Brian  Tregillis, Assistant Secretary of the Department said: 
In effect training for industry must comprehend the whole skilled workforce; it must mean equipping individuals wilh the vocational skills needed to work as operatives, as technicians, for new classes of clerical and technical sales work, as technologists, as supervisors and managers, etc., as well as craftsmen. 

 Mr Tregillis went on to emphasise the importance of supervision as an essential element in production and complained that a recent survey had disclosed that few of the supervisors in the industry under study had any special training for deploying the resources they were controlling. Most of them had simply been upgraded from the operative level. 
On the subject of tertiary vocational education  Mr Tregillis  compared the small amount now spent in this area with the much larger sums being spent by the Commonwealth and State governments on general tertiary education. He drew attention to many other areas that should have caused the Government deep concern, but the only reaction from the Government was to announce a plan that has resulted in the training of 2 workers in 7 months, and to transfer  Mr Tregillis,  the most highly qualified training authority in the Department, from the section of the Department responsible for ascertaining and meeting the needs of the dynamic period of technological change to another section altogether. 
Even more signficantly however, I have just learned that about a year ago the Department recommended to the Government that it should establish a special section on productivity and training. This would have enabled us at least to start to move towards the British example where this aspect of industry is regarded with such importance that the United Kingdom Government has renamed its department the Department of Employment and Productivity. But our Government has rejected this recommendation and continues to avoid any determined approach to the problems and opportunities of technological change and it now seeks to put the blame onto the Public Service Board. One result of this is the failure of the Government's employment training scheme for persons displaced by technological change. Seven months after the start of the scheme only  2  people are undergoing training. When this was revealed a couple of weeks ago, the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  dismissed it by saying that the effects of technological change on people's employment had been minimal at this stage and that this explained the small number undergoing training. 
This is sheer nonsense. Last month's employment figures, although revealing a sharp decline in the number of unfilled jobs, nonetheless showed that there are  42,860  unfilled vacancies at a time when the total number of registered unemployed stands at  130,233.  Lack of proper training is the only thing that compels  42,860  Australian men and women to remain unemployed. And yet, only  2  out of the  130,000  who are unemployed are given the opportunity they need to enter the Australian workforce. Does the Minister seriously suggest that the majority of the  130,233  who are now registered for employment prefer the miserable  $17  a week unemployment sustenance to the opportunity of training for the  42,860  unfilled jobs that are still available? Does his own statement last week that only  4  out of  600  applicants for specialist training scholarships were successful not prove the falsity of his suggestion? 
The Minister has also said that a survey of  2,700  establishments had shown that persons retrenched because of technological change were in fact less than a half of one per cent of their total employment. In absolute terms this probably means several thousand of the whole work force have been displaced. But do officers of the Commonwealth Employment Service have the right to encourage other registrants for employment to apply for training under the scheme? Of course not! They are not permitted to do so because of the severe restrictions on the scheme. Persons declared redundant by company mergers, changes in market conditions, rationalisation, 'and those retrenched from organisations because of the indirect effects of technological change elsewhere in the economy' are by definition excluded from the scheme altogether. 
So far I have not mentioned the basic weakness of the Government's training scheme. This is its failure to understand that the majority of those affected by technological change are not those who are put off, but those who are not put on. All of this makes a mockery of the Government's constant calls for an increase in productivity before wages can rise. How can Australia ever increase its rate of productivity while modern technology is held in check through shortage of skilled labour? How will employers ever meet their needs for skilled labour while we have a Government which closes its eyes to the facts of industrial needs? 
By limiting training courses to one year with one year's extension, the Government is acting as though it is setting out delibarately to ensure that most of the unfilled vacancies will remain unfilled. We need more skilled operatives as well as more technicians and technologists. We need better trained managers and supervisors. And we need them urgently. How will we ever match the growing efficiency of our overseas competitors while we have a Government that is so indolent and incompetent as the one that now straddles the Government benches? For  22  years it has allowed events to pass it by. 
Where are the pilot training projects such as are now operating in the United States? What have we done to examine the feasibility of following the growing European practice of modular training? We do not even know the areas in which special attention is needed because we have no concept of the unemployment structure of the age and status breakdown of unemployed adults. Where is our equivalent of the annual report of the  President  of the United States including his report on manpower requirement resources, utilisation and training? In January of every year since  1962  the  President  has been required by a Bill of Congress to transmit his report to the legislature so that the nation may take stock of what is called its human capital. 
We have no active manpower policy such as in Sweden where sociologists, industrial psychologists and a whole range of specialists are quickly moved into regions suffering manpower problems so that steps can be taken to restore the health of ailing industries or, if need be, shift people to other areas. I wish I had time to quote extracts from the excellent publication recently produced by the Swedish Institute on the Swedish labour market. It indicates that the Swedish training scheme is now capable of enrolling 100,000 trainees or 3 per cent of the whole Swedish labour force. I repeat: This Government has no labour policy. It has used the Department of Labour and National Service for spying on trade unions and unionists instead of heeding the advice of its senior officers on the need to give greater emphasis to meeting the training needs of modern technology. Increased productivity cannot be achieved by action from below. It must come from initiative and action from above, and that initiative must begin at the level of government. I now seek the leave of the House to incorporate in Hansard the sub-section entitled Technological Change and Related Issues' in the official policy of the Australian Labor Party. 
I know that this is a very tightly drawn Bill. The long title of the Bill will prevent any debate on it, except to oppose the proposition, which the Opposition does not do. It supports it. It will allow the Bill to go through all stages without division. I know that I am out of order in referring to anything outside the scope of the Bill,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  but I hope you will allow me to make a brief reference to the fact that I am sorry that it is tightly drawn because I would have liked the Bill to include a provision to alter the Public Service Act to provide for a minimum of 4 weeks annual leave with 5 weeks pay, which 1 have advocated for so long, equal pay for the sexes, long service leave as. a non-forfeitable right, and maternity leave on full pay for all female employees of the Commonwealth Public Service.  Sir, I  thank you for the latitude you have shown in allowing me to depart from the terms of the Bill. The Opposition in fact supports the Bil! and will allow it to pass through its remaining stages without further debate. 
asked the Minister  for  Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Has an agreement made under the auspices of the ACTU ever been repudiated by that body; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
On how many occasions, and with what result, has section 43 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act been used since that section was included in the Act in 1956. 
I ask the Minister for National Service to explain to the House why it is that when the number of registered unemployed as indicated by original data is higher than the seasonally adjusted figure, he quotes the seasonally adjusted figure, and when the reverse position is the case he then quotes original data. Will he explain why the seasonally adjusted figures - the figures he was using when the original data showed that 130,000 people were unemployed - now show an increase in the number of unemployed compared with February of this year, whereas in the previous 2 years there was a fall in the seasonally adjusted total of registered unemployed? Will the Minister also explain why it is that for the year ended January 1972 - the last available figures - the number of people employed in the work force showed an increase of 0.89 per cent compared with an increase of 4.2 per cent for the same period of 1970 and 3.7 per cent for last year? Is it a fact that on these trends the total number of extra people who could expect to obtain employment will be 39,000 for the period to which I have just referred compared with 188,000 had the trend of 1970 remained unchanged? 
 I agree with the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  that the Conciliation and Arbitration Act is certainly one of the most important statutes in this Parliament. But I cannot agree with the Minister that this Bill represents a balanced and constructive approach to the amendments that are needed to enable the arbitration system to cope with the challenges that we must meet in the seventies. The Minister claimed that the Bill deals with every significant part of the Act. But even a cursory examination of the Bill shows that the Minister has not yet discovered the most significant parts of the Act because these have been totally ignored in the Bill. The Government seems to have ignored the lessons learnt in those countries that have experienced and have experimented with and have  discovered  the value of establishing panels of mediators and arbitrators of whom one can be chosen by unions and employers to assist them to reach a settlement of disputes by agreement Experience does show that a mediator or arbitrator whose selection is dependent upon his proven impartiality will 
14211/72- JJ^-1871 
always have a greater incentive to succeed than one who is appointed until he reaches the age of retirement. 
More than 4 years ago I asked the then Minister for Labour and National Service to direct his attention to the defects of section 5 of the Act and to bring down amendments that would guarantee full protection against victimisation of union officials, job representatives and union members. The amendments now proposed to this section scarcely scratch the surface of what is needed to give unionists the protection that is necessary if our industrial system is to operate properly. It is quite obvious to me that the Government has not the foggiest idea of the relationship that exists between trade union officialdom and trade union membership. The Minister seems to imagine that all strikes are initiated in the union office and that movements for amalgamation always come from union officials for whom amalgamation could mean the loss of their jobs. In fact, it is the reverse position that usually applies.  His  proposals for strike ballots merely give the Commission powers which, under the rules of almost every union, already reside with the membership. The Government, I believe, is in for a shock if it thinks that strike ballots will stop strikes. They will not. All they will do is legalise them. 
In reporting on the proposition of holding strike ballots in the United Kingdom, the royal commission, the so-called Donovan Commission, of 1968 reported as follows - this is a paraphrase of what it said: 
. A law forbidding strike action before the holding of a secret ballot could not be enforced in the case of small-scale unofficial stoppages, which make up the overwhelming majority of the total number of strikes. 
There is little justification in the available evidence for the view that workers are less likely to vote for strike action than their leaders; and findings from our workshop relations survey, already cited, confirm this. Experience in the USA has been that strike ballots are overwhelmingly likely to go in favour of strike action. This is also the experience of Canada, where strike ballots are compulsory in the provinces of Alberta and British Columbia. . . . 
There are other objections to such ballots. Once a vote has been taken and has gone in favour of strike action, the resulting stoppage may delay a settlement by restricting union leaders' freedom of action. ... If the vote is, for instance, about  whether to accept the employer's latest offer, its result can be stultified if the employer subsequently makes a slightly improved offer. 
We do not recommend that it should be compulsory by law, either generally or in certain defined cases, to hold a ballot of the employees affected upon the question whether strike action should be taken. We think it preferable that trade union leaders should bear, and be seen to bear, the responsibility of deciding when to call a strike and when to call it off. 
When the present Treasurer was the Minister for Labour and National Service he considered this proposition. He talked with union leaders in the United Kingdom, including  Mr Vic  Fethers. on the proposition of strike ballots, and he came to the conclusion that the scheme was unworkable. A paper prepared by the officers of the Department of Labour and National Service - I wish the Minister would pay more attention to what the officers tell him and less to what people in Cabinet, who know absolutely nothing about industrial relations, try to impose upon him - pointed out the problems of conducting a ballot on a national scale, the delays of settling a strike which necessitated the holding of another secret ballot and the conflict that would arise in imposing strike penalties if unionists voted in favour of a strike. 
This paper also pointed out, as though it was necessary to do so, that section 45 of the existing Act already empowers the Commission to order a vote of members in a dispute but that this section had been invoked only 3 times since 1928. Only one result was ever obtained, and that was in the 1929 timber workers strike, which resulted in an overwhelming majority of the employees concerned voting in favour of the strike. Mainly because of the compulsory secret strike ballot that was then ordered by the Bruce Government, that strike ended up being the longest strike in the history of the industry, and it resulted in the Prime Minister who ordered the imprisonment of the strike leader losing his blue ribbon conservative seat to the man whom he gaoled. I think that the Minister ought to stop smiling, cogitate on the possibilities of the future and realise that this thing just  will not work. 
When a union's rules gives its membership a free right to demand a strike ballot at any time, there can be no moral justification for this kind of legislation. This Government must have, a cargo cult mentality to believe that there is such a simple solution for ending strikes. If this is a solution the Government should hang its head in shame for never in 22 years of power having thought of it before. 
Before leaving section 5 I want to say something about the shop steward's movement because this relatively recent phenomenon in this country deserves much more consideration than has so far been given it. It will not go away just because it is ignored, misunderstood or disliked. The Industrial Registrar has referred to the movement as follows: 
The Shop Steward's Movement, the Area Committees, and other grassroots movements are a fact of life and they are not disposed of merely by referring to them as being 'commo-led' or as the reaction of dissatisfied British migrants. 
How many times have we heard members on the Government side of this chamber defame British migrants and accuse them of being the sole cause of all industrial disputes? The Registrar went on: 
In many cases, they are both of these things, but they are also expressive of the fact that many workers feel their immediate needs are best satisfied at the work places and they are not content to be led by what they regard as the remote control of Lygon Street. 
Lygon Street happens to be the street in which the Trades Hall in Melbourne is situated. The Registrar continued: 
The present structure of most unions and the failure of communication between  leadership  and the rank and file,  especially  in  isolated  areas, are not calculated to help overcome these feelings. 
The best union official with whom to have dealings is the one who knows and faithfully reflects the attitudes of those whom he represents. He will always support his members when they are right, and with that reputation he will always have the authority to command obedience when he believes they are wrong. The late Jim Healy was a classical example of a leader who was able to command absolute obedience. If he thought men were wrong they would do as he directed, but he always supported them when he thought they were right. That is the kind of thing that spells leadership. That is the kind of leadership that comes from union rules that guarantee participatory democracy. That is the kind of leadership which, in the final analysis, is best for good industrial relations, because that is the kind of leadership that will make it possible for management to enter into industrial agreements knowing full well that they will be honoured by the other side. It is terribly important that agreements be honoured by both sides during their currency. I will come to the question of currency later on. 
Similarly, it is in management's interest to have effective, responsible union stewards who understand the issues at stake, who can present a case logically and reasonably, and report back to their members clearly and persuasively. But stewards must have their independence guaranteed against managerial victimisation. A steward cannot face his employer with the kind of frankness needed for properly representing his members if he stands in constant risk of dismissal or demotion. Only those who build the reputation of fearlessly advocating their members' cause can ever expect to carry their members with them in honouring a bargain. Union delegates who are in the manager's pocket, or who are thought to be in the manager's pocket, soon cease to be effective representatives of or to carry any weight with their members. 
If shop stewards are to do their jobs properly they must be kept well informed by management about plans and developments, and must be consulted by them. Communication is most important because people do not work efficiently unless they know about and understand the reasons for decisions which have a direct impact on  their  jobs or working conditions. In the more civilised parts of the world, certainly in the parts with which we usually like to compare ourselves, employees are beginning to realise the importance of what they call job motivation or what in Holland they call job satisfaction, whereby a person is no longer made to feel that he is just a cog in the wheel but that once again he is thought to be a human being. Instead of there being hundreds of men on an assembly line making a small contribution to the construction of a car or to the putting together of a television set, little groups of men are brought together to build the whole job from beginning to end, and are thus put in a position to see what they are doing and take some pride in the finished article. 
I believe that before a steward is dismissed, the employer should be required to notify the secretary of his union and, at the time of the dismissal, the employer should be required to give the employee written reasons for his action. Too often employers, upon legal advice, change the reason, or what they say is the reason, for the employee's dismissal. The reason should be given in writing at the time. 
The shop steward occupies a very special position in the workshop. Extraordinary safeguards, therefore, must be taken to guarantee his absolute independence. Always, the onus must be upon the employer to prove that punitive action against a steward was unrelated to any action that was compatible with the steward's union duties and that the action taken was for a just cause and devoid of capriciousness. This Bill does nothing whatever to give shop stewards the protection they must have if they are to fulfil the functions that they should fulfil. 
Another obvious omission from the BUI is its failure to deal with right of entry. Even if there is some doubt about the Parliament's incidental powers to legislate in this area, the Government should have acted, and if need be, stated a case to the High Court on the subject. Greater managerial expertise and greater union organisation at the plant level will be needed to deal with on-site grievances if the growing incidence of unofficial stoppages is to be avoided. Full-time experienced union officials cannot be everywhere at the same time. It would help officials if they could enter the workshop during working hours and hold union meetings on the job. This is the one area in which the Arbitration Commission could make a major contribution to better industrial relations. 
In this way full-time officials would be able to enforce the observance of safety regulations, clear up misinterpretations of awards, smooth-out demarcation differences, interview non-unionists, detect symptoms of potential unrest, and smooth-out abrasive managerial policies. I have never been able to understand why so many companies do so much to impede the on-site activities of full-paid officials and then blame the union when its shop stewards find themselves with an avoidable dispute on their hands.  Mr Michael  Clarke, Assistant Director of The Industrial Society in the United Kingdom, with splendid clarity, wrote: 
More often than not full-time trade union officials are treated like the fire brigade and only get called in when things have already gone wrong. 
That is too true. Once again, however, I must make the point that no matter whether it be a full-time official or a job representative, the person who speaks for the union must not have the reputation of being a 'boss's man'. Such a person soon becomes the object of suspicion and contempt. The so-called 'trouble maker' is very often a 'trouble breaker'. It may not be pleasant for a works' manager to be informed of his own shortcomings, but surely this is preferable to making the discovery only after these have produced a crisis. A fearless and independent shop steward is the best safety valve there is against industrial blowouts. He should be countenanced, he should be respected and he should be protected by the law. 
A Labor Government will act to make our system more functional by providing full protection against victimisation and wrongful dismissal, supplemented by the right of entry to accredited union officials during working hours. 
While it is true that this Bill widens the inspection powers of arbitration inspectors, it leaves untouched the most essential reform of all. I refer to the fact that at present inspectors have no power to sue for wages arrears. Nor do they have any real power to prosecute for breaches of award. I asked the Minister a question on the matter, and received a reply very promptly - about a year later! The question I asked was whether any impediment was placed upon inspectors in prosecuting breaches of awards by employers. What I am about to read is a quotation of his words at the beginning and a paraphrase of what he said at the end: 
The policy of the Department which is well known to its inspectors- 
I bet it is -  is that prosecution is a last resort method of securing compliance with an award to be considered when all other reasonable steps to secure compliance had been taken. The procedure of my Department requires that no prosecution may be launched without each case being closely examined and prosecution action is approved only where the Department is satisfied that there is a breach of award. 
In my view unions should not have to bear the burden of suing for wage arrears or of having to meet the costs of prosecuting employers who are found to be in breach of awards. For the 10 years up to 1969, inspectors detected a total of more than 72,000 breaches of awards by employers and yet only 210 prosecutions were launched against the offenders. Last year, and the year before that, the total number of prosecutions were less than 10 a year. Is it any wonder that more and more employers are stealing entitlements from their employees when the only penalty for being caught is to be requested to comply with their legal obligations under the award? 
The reason for this is plain. While inspectors remain answerable to the Department of Labour and National Service they will remain bound by the political restraints ordered by the Minister. This Government has directed that no employer shall be prosecuted for breach of award provided he puts back the money he has been caught stealing from the till. I say now that when the Labor Government assumes office no employer will be permitted to breach an award with impunity as is now the case. Until I added that part the Minister for Labour and National Service, who is at the table, smiled because he could see a ray of hope in that I was still contemplating that he would be in charge of the Department after the next election. 
I am coming to that. Speaking personally, I would like to see inspectors placed under the jurisdiction of the Attorney-General's Department so that they would be free from the political interference that comes from being under their present department. 
Has the Government's policy had a deterrent effect or has it encouraged employers to steal money from the pockets of the employees, because that is what it has done? The year before last there were 10,000 cases of breaches. Last year the number had risen to 12,000. The explanation that I have no doubt the Minister would give for this is: Oh, we are now more efficient. We have more inspectors.' So they have. He would say: 'We are catching more. It is not that there are more breaches, but we are catching more.' It does not matter which way he puts it. We are talking about a government that has been in office for 22 years. He is either catching people now who have been breaching the law for 22 years without being caught or the effect of not prosecuting is that more employers are committing breaches of awards. A Labor Government will create an efficient inspectorate acting in co-operation with trade union officials to police and enforce federal industrial Acts, awards and safety regulations. The Act will be amended so that proceedings for the recovery of award entitlements will be carried out by the new inspectorate thus relieving union officials of the time and expense which they now spend in the recovery of award entitlements. 
I turn now to the Government's proposal to revert to the totally discredited penal provisions for the enforcement of minimum award rates. While it is true that the Government has not resurrected the old contempt provisions, it has nevertheless altered the existing section 32a in such a way as to produce the same result because it will be no longer competent for a judge of the Commission to consider the merits of a stoppage before issuing a prosecution certificate. To all intents and purposes he is to be stripped of his present discretionary powers and will be required to issue a certificate pro-forma to any employer who cares to apply for one. The fact that the applicant may be the guilty party in a stoppage will become irrelevant. I believe this is industrial brinkmanship deliberately designed to create a crisis in an election year. 
Before 1 go on to talk about strikes and strike action, let me quote from a comment made by the late  Mr Justice  Higgins. It was referred to in a case before the Commonwealth Arbitration Court in 1917. The Judge said that no man becomes a criminal by refusing to accept work or by refusing to give work to men seeking work. Surely that is a basic, fundamental statement of the law. Certainly it ought to be a basic, fundamental statement of human rights and of the position in which every human being ought to be able to see himself placed. 
Labor will face the fact that strike penalties cannot stop strikes. It will face up to the fact that one has to remove the causes of unrest Accordingly, a Labor government will remove from the Act all penalties that make it an offence for a person to refuse employment at the minimum rates when he believes he can get a higher rate by withholding his labour. At the same time, although there would be no penalty for refusing to work under an award, those who did accept employment under award conditions would be required to observe whatever safety provisions, booking on provisions and any other such conditions that may be lawfully put into an award by an arbitration commission. No-one would be forced to employ, or to accept employment, under an award. But I repeat that those who did would be expected to observe its requirements and there could be no justification for making fish of one and flesh of the other. 
The Minister's speech did not take long to get on to the subject of public interest. The Commission, he says, must at all times have regard for the public interest. This is followed by the assertion that this abstract term, which according to my knowledge, has so far never really been defined by any court although an attempt was made to do so in the Restrictive Trade Practices Act - really means the national economy. Let us, therefore, examine the validity of the Minister's proposition. Is he saying that the 4i million employees and their families in Australia are not part of the community? Or is he saying that it is not in their interests to receive a wage that is sufficient to meet their needs? Does he believe that it is in the public interest that prices should be allowed to gallop ahead of wages so that every man whose wife is not working must work regular overtime to make ends meet? Does he believe that it is in the interests of the community that 64 per cent of employees in the work force should receive less than the average weekly earnings while some of the balance receive increases ranging from $19 a week to as much as $80 a week? Does he say that it is in the public interest that tradesmen, who 25 years ago earned more than the then average weekly earnings, should now receive $24.50 a week less than the average weekly earnings? Does he believe that it is in the public interest that during the past 25 years Conciliation Commissioners should get salary increases amounting to $13,250 while these same Commissioners have lifted the salaries of tradesmen during that period by only $2,619 a year? Does a Commissioner pay more for his bread or his petrol or his beer than the tradesman pays? Does he pay anything at all to travel to work? Is it not true that he travels in a Commonwealth car or by aeroplane at Commonwealth expense? Are his children entitled to better medical attention, better schooling, better holidays or better recreational opportunities than those whose father is a tradesman? 
I agree with the honourable member. If not, what is the justification for the present wage differential of $12,787 when 25 years ago the differential was only $2,157? Why did the Minister not tell us how he calculated the increases that are now given to the Conciliation Commissioners? How did he arrive at this increase of $4,400 a year, retrospective to November, when the same Conciliation Commissioners thought that $2 a week was all that the worker ought to receive in the last national wage case? Even when one compares the proposed salary for Commissioners with salaries that were identical with theirs in 1947 one finds that they now receive $1,870 a year more than Level One officers of the Second Division of the Commonwealth Public Service and a cool $6,750 more than parliamentarians. This is an important movement for them, because at the time they were first appointed these people were receiving the same rate of pay as parliamentarians and the same rate of pay as Level One officers of the Commonwealth Public Service were receiving. Therefore, I ask for leave to incorporate in Hansard a history of the periodical adjustments in salaries that have been awarded to Conciliation Commissioners compared with those awarded to Level One officers of the Second Division of the Public Service and to parliamentarians. 

<graphic href="078131197205106_45_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="078131197205106_46_3.jpg"></graphic>

The honourable member, who is out of his place, says that they are paid for rendered services. It is not this particular instance of imbalance alone that has distorted the distribution of wages so as to place tradesmen $24.50 below the average weekly earnings. It operates in thousands of other cases. This Government has no wage policy other than the one which gives a few people more than they need while the many actually live in a state of poverty. 
More than they are worth, as the honourable member for Sturt who is a good judge of these things, says. It is this state of poverty that is causing workers to revolt and to use the weapon of strike action to win the justice which the $16,000 a year Commissioners deny them. That is the cause of our industrial unrest. You cannot cure that by calling for wage restraint on the part of men whose earnings are already less than $70 a week. While these injustices exist you are merely hissing into the wind by blaming communists and union officials for industrial unrest. Remove wage injustice and you will remove the real cause of industrial disputation. Strike penalties will not do it! We must make a fundamental change in our wages policy so that more will go to those whose need is greatest. 
Suspension of Standing Orders 
Motion (by  Mr Lynch)  - by leave - agreed to: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Hindmarsh speaking for a further period not exceeding 25 minutes. 
Before leaving that part of the Minister's speech which dealt with the new and unenforceable requirement that decisions of the Commission shall have regard to the national economy, may I explain to the Minister - because it seems he does not understand - what it is that the Commission is required to do under the objects of the Act. The objects of the Act require the Commission to promote goodwill in industry, to encourage conciliation and to provide means for preventing and settling disputes not resolved by agreement with the maximum of expedition and the minimum of legal form and technicality. It is not required, and should not be expected, to govern the national economy. Indeed, how can it control the national economy when its only power is to fix wages? Even if one could justify government abdication from the functions it was elected to perform, is it fair to expect any body to regulate the national economy if that body is without power to control prices, profits, taxation, tariffs, interest charges, land prices and the many other weapons available to government in controlling inflation and unemployment. 
That brings me to one of the worst features of the present national economy. I refer, of course, to the human suffering and enormous loss of production which is represented by the 100,000 men and women who cannot find employment. But what is even worse than the present unemployment figures is the sharp downturn in the rate  of expansion of the workforce. Instead of being able to find jobs for all migrants, school leavers and married women wishing to re-enter the workforce, our national economy is scarcely capable of maintaining employment for those already employed. If this trend continues we will reach a position in which the number of registered unemployed will increase at the rate of 190,000 a year. 
I hope it will not. I said 'if the trend continues', but I hope it does not. It certainly will not after 9th December this year when Labor assumes office as the Government of the country. Unemployment is being caused by buyer resistance. Those who can afford to spend will not, and those who need to spend cannot. It is as simple as that. If the Government wanted to stimulate the national economy why did it not ask the Commission to grant a substantial wage increase to those who are now living at subsistence levels and who would have to spend every cent awarded to them. They will not put it in the bank like the Arbitration Commissioners will do if they get their $4,000 increase. There can be no place in our society for econometricians who theorise about the economy and who overlook human needs. I agree with the Minister when he says that this country will benefit from an increase in productivity. Even Professor Laski agreed with that in 1949 when he lectured the trade union leaders of America. But what incentive is there for increased productivity when those who achieve it are no better off? When coal miners and waterside workers doubled their output and asked for a 35 hour week, this Government did everything possible to oppose their claim. Is this the way to get increased productivity? Of course not! 
The Minister calls upon the unions to resolve their demarcation disputes without disruption to industry and yet when they seek to overcome their problems by amalgmation this Government places every possible impediment in their way. All experts on industrial relations agree that with the constantly changing techniques associated with modern technology demarcation disputes will each year become more prevalent unless we can find a simple, expeditious and inexpensive procedure for bringing about union amalgamations. Demarcation disputes are always the most difficult ones to solve for both unions and employers. Very often the employers can do nothing but remain helpless spectators on the sidelines. According to the Minister, demarcation disputes accounted for 11 per cent of all man-days lost through strikes last year. And yet, seeing the enormous disruption which overlapping union jurisdiction can cause, the Minister has announced a scheme under which amalgamations will become so costly, so complex and so cumbersome that no union will even bother to consider the matter. 
Why has the Government acted in this way when its own Minister conceded to the Central Industrial Secretariat on 2nd March that the functioning of the arbitration system will be facilitated by reducing the number of unions. Why did the Minister throw away that excellent speech which had been prepared for him by his officers instead of asking them to prepare another one like it for him? The reason is not that he succumbed; I give him credit for that. I know something of Cabinet secrets and I know that the Minister fought the Government's move strenuously. I give him full credit for it. But his Prime Minister overrode his decision and said: 'We must get the DLP preferences somehow. They want it and it is a pay-off for them. Never mind you,  Mr Lynch,  your officers or the wisdom of your case. I am thinking more of politics and preferences than of settling disputes so I am throwing your suggestion to one side'. 
Recent figures show that we have a total of 305 unions in this country, 298 of which have less than 10,000 members and of this number 198 have less than 2,000 members. This position is ridiculous and cannot continue. Something has to be done to enable these unions to go out of existence and to become instead larger and more efficient bodies. The paper read by the Minister to that conference drew attention to the fact that one of his friends had sat around a table with 15 different union secretaries to settle a dispute that should have concerned one or two at the most. In West Germany, which has a population of 61 million, practically all unionists are covered by 19 unions and that includes 2 or 3 unions not inside the Federation of Labour. Of this number 5 have memberships ranging from 112,000 to 243,000 and 6 have from 310,000 to 496,000 each. Three of the largest unions enjoy memberships of 552,000, 718,000 and 969,000, and the Metal Workers Union has the grand total of 2,070,000 members, nearly as many as have all 305 unions in Australia put together. 
Small unions have not the financial resources for research, education, organisation and administration that is needed for the 1970s. A contributing factor is the ridiculously low rate of union dues that applies in Australia. Some unions are still charging less than the minimum yearly rate of $20 a year recommended by the ACTU about a decade ago. Unions cannot function on shoestring budgets. Just as a person who is seriously ill does not shop around for the cheapest doctor, trade unionists who want the backing of an efficient and powerful trade union movement cannot afford cheap unionism. On the present average weekly earnings in Australia, most American unionists would be paying union dues of from $80 to $100 a year. Unions must improve the range and quality of their services to members through the recruitment and training of more full-time officers, and more specialist officers, and improvements in the training and servicing of shop stewards and other shop floor representatives. Most of the big unions are doing it now. At the same time, there must be a continued and growing willingness to overhaul union structures, extend the internal representation of membership interests, and to press on with rationalisation by amalgamation, inter-union agreements, point servicing and so on. The problems of trade union organisation today arise not from their strength, but from their weakness. More effective trade unionism will come through stronger trade unionism. 
Even under the existing law procedures for amalgamation are slow, costly and cumbersome. The Government's proposal will make a bad law even worse. A Labor Government will replace the proposed amendments on amalgamations with a new law that will facilitate a speedy method of amalgamation of unions. In New South Wales the method of amalgamation is ever so much more simple than it is under the Commonwealth's existing law. But here we have a government trying to make a bad law worse. I agree that no amalgamating union should lose its separate identity without a plebiscite of its members, but I see no special merit in stipulating how many members must vote in a plebiscite. The important thing is to guarantee that each member is given the right to vote. Once this is done, there is no justification for nullifying the wishes of those who do vote just because a certain percentage of members are too apathetic to vote one way or the other. One thing is certain. Where there is any real opposition to an amalgamation proposal there will be no need to stipulate a 50 per cent return of ballot papers. I can assure the House of that. Officially controlled ballots show that as a rule there has been a fairly high return of ballot papers in controlled ballots for the election of officers. At the same time, there have been cases in which the return has been well under the 50 per cent which this Bill requires before an amalgamation ballot can be made binding on a union. At this stage I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a statement setting out the true position of the amount of ballot papers that are being returned in officially controlled ballots carried out by (a) the Electoral Officer and (b) the Industrial Registrar. 
 I would like to say something about clause 6 since the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  has not risen  to  deal with it. The clause amends section 5 of the Act. It improves that section. However, it still does not give full protection from victimisation. I indicated in my second reading speech why it will not give full protection from victimisation and wrongful dismissal. I do not intend to talk any longer on this clause. 
Clause 7 is a consequential clause which is to alter the law as a result of separating conciliation and arbitration. I will probably agree with what the honourable member for Moreton is about to say on this as well. 
 Mr Deputy Chairman- 
I will not be long. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I understand that the honourable member for Hindmarsh has already spoken on this clause. 
Yes, once. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  - Order! I call the honourable member for Burke. 
Of the J 8 proposed new sections included in the one clause, proposed new section 27 has fi sub-sections, section 28 has 5, section 30 has 4, section 31 covers a whole page, section 33 has 9 sub-sections and paragraphs and covers 2 whole pages, section 34 has 9 subsections, section 35 has 11 sub-sections and covers 2 whole pages. Clause 19 repeals 2 sections and replaces them by 107 lines of new law. Clause 26 repeals 3 sections and replaces them with 63 lines of new law. Clause 51 introduces a new part called Part VIIIaa dealing with amalgamation. Tt contains 19 new sections covering over 6 pages of new law. Three of the sections have 4 sub-sections, and one section has 6 sub-sections. Clause 54 - it is the last one  I  shall refer to specifically - has by the snide device of a schedule amended no fewer than 20 sections of the Act in one fell swoop. 
This is no way for the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia, the supreme law-making body of this Commonwealth, to be asked to transact its business. This is no way to ask the elected legislators of the Parliament to make laws for the good government of the people of Australia. We have no right to be asked to vote in one single vote on one clause that introduces 19 new sections into the law of this land. We have no right to be called upon to endorse 11 pages of new law in one vote dealing with matters that range from the separation of conciliation from arbitration to the right of the Commonwealth to intervene in cases before the Full Bench to prevent the certification of an industrial agreement between 2 parties to a dispute. There is no right to introduce in the same one clause, to be the subject of the same one vote, the provision that gives the Full Bench the sole right even to certify consent awards without dealing with the 4 specified matters. One could go on and on, but I promised that I would stop within 5 minutes, and I must do that. But I register this strong opposition and give warning that if ever that happens again the Government will rue the day that it ever tried this kind of thing on the Parliament. 
 I would like to indicate on behalf of the Opposition that we do agree with a lot of what the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  has said about separating the functions of conciliation and arbitration. The honourable member might have been better advised to have left his sage remarks until later when we deal with the section of the Bill that really does this evil thing. All that we deal with in clause 5 is definitions. True, this has an indirect bearing on the ultimate result, but it would not have surprised me,  Sir, if  you had told the honourable member to sit down and wait until we get to the crux of the thing. But you probably set a new standard and I hope it will not be deviated from. 
The Opposition will not vote against this clause. I want to make it clear that we will not be calling divisions on those clauses of the Bill, such as this, with which we disagree, because we do not have the time to do so. The Government has made it clear that it will not give us the time to debate this matter fully or to vote against each clause separately because the time taken for a division on each clause would be 7 minutes. The Government has indicated that it will not tolerate a proper debate on a clause for clause, division for ' division, basis. Because of this we have no alternative but to bow to the strength of the Government. 
I will reserve until later my remarks on the stupidity of believing that it is possible to separate conciliatory and arbitratory powers and expect to get the same good results as we get now. This cannot be done. It was a stupid, rash and ridiculous proposition. It will not work. The Minister will learn from bitter experience that it will not work. The Government should have taken the advice of people close to industry before it embarked upon this matter because employers know it will not work. Employers' representatives told me that they have not given their blessing to this Bill and  neither has the  trade union movement. How on earth the Government has been able to come up with a proposition like this is absolutely beyond me. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clauses 6 and 7 - by leave - taken together. 
 I want to say something about clause 8. The qualifications of the presidential members are to be altered and we agree with this. We have always thought that, in a system that should try to tear itself away from legal technicalities and the like and be activated by equity, good conscience and all the other things such as the merits of the case and without being bound specifically to the rules of evidence, etc., it was silly in the extreme to fill the bench with lawyers. Lawyers are important in the position of a  president.  I agree with the Government's stipulation that the  president  ought to be a lawyer because there are legal questions to be determined and the constitutional authority of the commission has to be understood and only a lawyer understands it. But I have always said - and I am pleased to know that the Government has been wise enough to note what I have said about this - that there is room on the bench for economists, sociologists, psychologists and men of practical experience on the bench. I am glad that the Government has made provision for this. 
I find that the wording of proposed subsection (1a.) (b) a little perplexing. It states that the  chairman  may, in addition to being a barrister, be one who has had experience at a high level in industry, commerce, industrial relations or the service of government. 
Would 'high level . . . in the service of a government' mean the Secretary of the Department of Labour and National Service? Would 'high level in industry' mean literally somebody who is up at a high level or is it meant to be taken only in some other sense? I have heard it rumoured - when I spoke to the Minister about it he just smiled; in fact he broke into uproarious laughter either in anticipation or because he could not imagine anything so ridiculous - that he intends to appoint the Permanent Head of the Department of Labour and National Service as a judge of the Commission. He roared with laughter. He thought it was a terrific joke. Well, we will see what happens. 
Why is it that this paragraph has been worded with such meticulous care when the following one, paragraph (c), is so wide? It is a kind of omnibus paragraph that would cover anybody at all who is considered by the Governor-General - that means the Minister - to have substantial relevance to the duties of a deputy president. If that is what it means I cannot understand why there was any need to include paragraph (c) unless it was to make the paragraph so neatly fit some particular person that when the appointment is made everyone will accept it as being the obvious intention of the Parliament. I do not think it is the obvious intention of the Parliament to appoint somebody at this stage and for it to be necessary to devise a paragraph that will so neatly fit the description and the position of the person to make his appointment seem to be an untoward event. 
The Opposition is not moving any amendments to proposed sub-section (1a.) of section 7 at the committee stage because it has not had time to consider them properly. If time had permitted I would have recommended to my Party that it should add after the words 'industrial relations' in paragraph (b) the words 'as an officer of an organisation of employees or employers' so that the paragraph would read as follows: 
has had experience at a high level in industry, commerce, industrial relations as an officer of an organisation of employees or employers or in the service of a government or an authority of a government 
However, I shall say no more about it. 
I agree that the reduction in the retiring age for a presidential member to 65 years is an improvement, but I would prefer to have had fixed term appointments as we have with the Public Service Board, the Public Service Arbitrator and all the other statutory officers who work well, even including the  Chairman  of the Commonwealth Bank Board and the  Chairman  of the Reserve Bank. These other important statutory officers are people who are appointed for fixed terms. An improvement is better than nothing. The Opposition, therefore, although it is not satisfied and not completely happy with the proposed new sub-section, will not vote against it or call for a division. 
 The Opposition is opposing this clause. We will divide on it. I intend to leave it to my learned friend the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  to put our arguments, and I think that the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster),  who is looking over his spectacles, will have something to say about this clause. I will be brief. I more than touched upon the provisions of this clause in my speech at the second reading stage. Clause 12 abolishes senior commissioners. It abolishes conciliators and their salaries, but it increases the salaries of commissioners by $4,400 a year, $84 a week, the increase to be retrospective to November of last year. The retrospectivity is provided for in clause 57. We will be voting against that clause as well. If it is not right - this Government has always maintained that it is not right; we have never agreed with it but we will force the Government to be consistent with its own philosophy - to give pensioners an increase in pension retrospective - the people who really need the money - it is certainly not right to give to conciliation commissioners already getting $11,800 a year another $4,400 a year increase retrospective to November last year. 
The honourable member describes it as criminal. In my opinion it is a disgraceful misunderstanding of the needs of people on the one hand and represents the acceptance of what is nothing more nor less than sheer greed on the other. A man who is already getting $11,800 a year now cannot say that he needs more money. A man who on that salary tries to get more money while people are being told that they have to be prepared to accept an increase of $2 a week - men who are still getting only a miserable $60 or $70 a week on which to live - in my opinion are being motivated by greed and not need, and we ought not to lend ourselves to this sort of thing. It has been said that there has been no increase in their salaries since June of 1968. If this bill goes through it will mean that they have gone without a salary increase for about 3 years and 5 months. They ought to set an example to the nation. If this is what they think they are worth - an extra $84 - why do they not set some sort of example by giving a more reasonable increase to the people who have to rely upon their judgment? It appears to be a disgraceful attempt - I hope it is not - by the Government to bribe the Commission. 
The honourable member says that the Government has been doing it for years. I have no proof of that, but it appears to be clearly an attempt to bribe the Commission. It appears to be saying: 'We have a new policy of wage freezing. You are the men who have to carry it out. We will pay you well to do the job. We will give you a cool $84 a week extra if you are prepared to freeze the wages of the people who really need an increase'. Commissioners do not need an increase. 
My friend from Burke asks why not give them what the Government gave our friends and supporters - the $2 a week which those who heard the national wage inquiry recently thought was a proper wage for men on $66 a week. If men on $60 a week ought to be able to meet the rising cost of living that has occurred over the last 16 months out of the miserable $2 a week which these commissioners have given them, the commissioners ought not to need another $84 on top of the $240 that they are now getting. 
I would like to know more also about the change of the words. Under the existing Act the Government sets or the Minis ter sets the travelling expenses. I notice that the words 'travelling expenses' are to be struck out and the words 'such allowances as are prescribed' are to replace them. I do not disagree with the prescribing of amounts. The allowances ought to be prescribed. They should be prescribed so that Parliament can set aside the prescription if it is too much. But what right have we to let through this Parliament the loose verbiage that appears in the clause we are discussing? What is meant by allowances'? Does the wording, mean a tax-free allowance or an annual allowance? Do not laugh that off because it has become the practice to give to the tall poppies of the Public Service amounts, ranging from $1,000 to $2,000 a year as tax free allowances, so described. 
f  Ah, the- honourable member says that "the annual allowance is not described. 
-It is not included. I know this. It is excluded. But it need not be paid - annually. It could be paid daily and over a 12-month period could represent an enormous 'sum. Why have we changed the term 'travelling allowance' to just 'allowances'? Why not retain 'travelling allowance'? If  the Government does not retain the term 'travelling allowance' it means that: these people can have a living-away-from-home allowance, a travelling allowance and an entertainment allowance. They can have all sorts of allowances so described which in aggregate could amount to much more than the prohibited annual allowance. 
The other thing that we ought to remember is that since 1947 when the commissioners were first set up by statute, they have received increases amounting to $13,250. In the time that they have received their increases of $13,250, what do you think they gave to the tradesmen? I am not talking about the ordinary street sweeper but the fitter and turner, the highest skilled man who has served his apprenticeship in order to be able to qualify. What do you think they gave him? 
They gave him a miserable $2,600 in 25 years. Twenty-five years ago the difference between the salary of a conciliation commissioner and that of a tradesman's was $2,157. What do honourable members think it is now? It has leapt to $12,787. Is this not a case of greasing the fat pig? Is it any wonder that from now on the workers who appear before the commission and before these men who are to get this exorbitant increase compared with what they give other people, and who every time have refused the workers a decent increase, will remember my words that this is a pay-out to carry out the Government's discreditable and villainous policy of wage fixation for the man on the low salary? The commissioners are to be given an increase of $84 a week backdated to November. But the conciliation commissioners do not need it. They cannot say they need any more money. They cannot say that this increase is justified by the cost of living increases that have occurred since. I know now that we can rely upon 2 of my colleagues to enlarge upon what I have just said. The Opposition will vote against this clause. 
First of all I want to correct a statement made by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  who said that when this matter was being dealt with last year the Opposition supported the salary increase for the conciliation commissioners. Let me read from page 4007 of Hansard of 2nd December last year what I had to say to see whether that statement is true. I said: 
It is proposed. to increase the salary of an ordinary conciliation commissioner appointed under the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act to $16,250, the present salary being $11,850. The proposed increase is considerably more than $4,000 a year. This breaks away from the general pattern of most other increases which range between 14 per cent and 15 per cent.' The House should take note of what has happened to the salary range payable to conciliation commissioners. 
I said that Second Division officers -  . . are entitled to feel thatthey have been badly treated by the Commonwealth. Public Service Arbitrator in that they received only a miserable 15 per cent increase, or, something like $2,000 when the conciliation commissioners received an increase of $4,400. 
The wage structure of Commonwealth Public Service officers cannot continue to be distorted vis-a-vis that of the statutory officers in this way. The Government will only buy, trouble for itself. What is necessary is a Commonwealth 'Public Service Board review of all of the. top eschelon rates in the Public Service as against the rates applicable to statutory officers. Where the Board finds that there is a distortion, as so obviously there is in the rates to which I have referred, it must be remedied. Unless this is done,the Government will buy for the Commonwealth' Public Service and for itself alot of trouble. 
That surely does not justify or support the statement made by the Minister that the Opposition supported unconditionally the increase when it came before the Parliament last time. 
I want to answer oneother statement which was made by the Minister. The Minister asked why Ior theAustralian Labor Party proposed a wage freeze on the top level of the Public Service. He said that we were opposed to any increase to white collar workers. Nothing of the kind was ever proposed.  Mr Maximillian  Walsh, who is not in the Press Gallery at the moment and who represents the 'Australian Financial Review', was one of a group of 12 or 13 journalists who can testify that in the Trades Hall, immediately the Federal Executive adjourned for lunch or for the evening meal, when, I was asked whether I had moved or what was the fate of my motion for freezing the salaries of top public servants, I said there was no such motion. He said: 'But does it not mean that?' I said: 'No, it does not'. He said: 'Was there not a proposal? We understood there was a proposal for freezing the salaries of top public servants'. I said: 'No such proposal was ever put'. I then said: Have you got that clear?' They said: 'Oh, it spoils a good story. Are you sure you did not say something like that?' I said: 'I said nothing of the kind'. Every pressman except one was decent enough to accept my word for it. Only one pressman published it, or his paper published it, on the following morning. 
I have never said that I am in favour of a wage freeze for white collar workers. I did say to  Mr Linehan  that I would find it much easier to state a case for a $19 a week increase for the lowest level of the Third Division than I would for a $6 increase for the ones at the top. That is what I said. When we come to think of it, it is not hard to justify that statement. When we consider that the top level of the Third Division is getting $220 already and wants another $19 and that the men on $67 a week are to get only $6, it seems to me that the whole thing is cockeyed. The man on $67 a week was the one who needed the $19 and the man on $220 a week could have made do with the $6. I told  Mr Linehan  that had I been preparing the case for the Third Division of the Commonwealth Public Service I would have been asking for a hell of a lot more for the men on the bottom rung of the Third Division. They are all white collar workers. There are some 35,000 of them. I would then have found it much easier to justify the claim. He said: What would you do if you were the Minister?' I said: 'I would tell you that your claim was too low for the men at the bottom. They are the ones who have to get more if they are to live decently, or even to exist'. Anybody who stands in this place and pretends that I said that there ought to be a freeze at any level at all is manufacturing, inventing or fabricating something that did not even happen. I conclude by saying (bat the rate of increase now proposed for these conciliation commissioners is out of all proportion to what they are giving to those who have to accept standards of living fixed upon the basis of the salaries that the conciliation commissioners hand out to other people. All I am saying is that this increase is out of all proportion to what they give to other people. Nobody can gainsay that. 
I am glad to be able to tell my colleagues who have been fighting the good fight tonight that as soon as I finish my 10 minutes the Committee will report progress and we can go home. I would not mind going home now. Clause 13 contains 14 sections. This is the most critical clause of the Bill. This is the clause that separates conciliation from arbitration. This is the clause that has all the machinery for disciplining the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to see that it does not break away from the Government's policy of a wage freeze. This is the clause that gives to the Government the right to intervene in all appeal eases. This is the clause that provides that no agreement can be signed without the certification of the Full Bench if the agreement contains clauses that deal with wages. This is the clause that stops consent awards from being made without certification or approval of the Full Bench. If we look at the clause in toto, we are rooking at a clause that is blatantly designed to freeze wages. For the Minister to talk about freezing the wages of the Conciliation Commissioners at their present rate of $1 1,850 a year and to bring in a Bill that proposes to freeze the wages of the workers at $51.80 a week is to me a disgrace. 
Let me go through this bit by bit, if I may, to show honourable members how this scheme unfolds. New section 23 provides that from now on industries will be given over to a panel of commissioners. The panel will consist of a conciliation commissioner, an arbitration commissioner and a presidential member. It will decide the wages and conditions of given industries. The claims of certain industries may be heard by a panel consisting of more than one conciliation commissioner, one arbitration commissioner and one presidential member but the important thing is that no panel will be able to operate unless it is constantly under the jurisdiction and influence of the presidential member and in turn the presidential member in many cases will be a member of the Full Bench which determines the decisions that are designed to prevent any increases in wages or increased benefits of any kind. If the Opposition had had an opportunity to move amendments to this Bill, I think I would recommend to my Party that it insist upon the reinsertion of section 26 of the old Act. 
I move now to proposed section 25 (1.) and (2.). If I were in a position to recommend to my Party consideration of amendments, I would recommend that we delete the words 'presidential member' and insert in their place the word 'commissioner' so that these decisions can be taken by commissioners instead of by presidential members. It is necessary also in section 25 of the new Act to have deleted proposed subsections (3.), (4.) and (5.). I believe that new sections 26 and 27 should have been deleted. In the case of proposed section 28, let me draw the attention of the Committee to one significant change. New subsection (2.), which deals with the question of certifying agreements and consent awards, provides: 
A Conciliation Commissioner shall- 
It is mandatory; the word should be may' - refuse to certify a memorandum or make an award or order in accordince with this section if he is of the opinion that - 
it is not in the public interest that he should certify the memorandum or make the award or order. 
The public interest is not defined except in a very vague and passing way to mean the national economy. Look again at the verbiage used. The Commissioner shall refuse to certify it if he is of opinion that the agreement or consent award is not in the public interest. 
Supposing a union decided to appeal to the Full Bench against his refusal to certify. How could such an appeal possibly succeed when the section requires the commissioner to make a purely subjective test, not an objective test? The commissioner merely has to say: 'That was my opinion and all the Act required me to do was to act upon my opinion, and it is my opinion that it is contrary to the public interest'. The matter then has to go to the Full Bench which could very well adopt a legal position. I might very well say: 'We are of the opinion that the decision taken by the conciliation commissioner cannot be altered because it was based upon a subjective test with which we have no subjective powers to interfere'. On the other hand, the Full Bench might say: 'Yes, we will supplant your subjective test of what is in the public interest with our own subjective test*. What would happen if somebody went to the High Court? If I know anything about the 160-odd decisions which the judges of the High Court have given so far in respect of placitum (xxxv) of section 51 of the Constitution, I would be very surprised if the judges of the High Court did not adopt a purely technical and legalistic attitude towards the question and say that once the Act empowered a commissioner to take a subjective test as to what was in the public interest, it would not be within the competence of some other body to superimpose, supplant or substitute that primary subjective test with a second one. This Bill is drawn in this loose, reckless and careless fashion, indicating quite clearly that the Minister has not given to the Bill the attention which he should have given to it. 
I refer to proposed new section 28 (3.) which states: 
A memorandum certified in accordance with this section has the same effect as ... an award . . . 
If one looks at another part of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act one finds that an award continues ad infinitum unless it is either rescinded by the Commission or cancelled by agreement of all the parties. Therefore, this proposed new section 28 (3.) has the effect of continuing the present vice of the existing Act which says that once parties enter into an industrial agreement for a stated duration, the agreement immediately assumes perpetuity and it cannot be cancelled at the end of the stated period, as one would think it automatically could be. This cannot happen. An agreement can be set to one side only by the order of the Commission or with the approval of all the parties to the agreement. This is one of the reasons why the system of collective bargaining has broken down. This is why people who look at the existing system of settling industrial disputes by making industrial agreements have not got much sympathy for the concept of settling industrial disputes by making industrial agreements in future. 
What we ought to make clear in the Ac - and this is an opportunity to do so - i that when a person makes an industrial agreement, that agreement shall operate only for the stated period of the agreement Proposed new section 28 (3.) says, in effect that you are not allowed to include any thing in an industrial agreement that is contrary to the provisions of the Constitution. What the devil does it matter whether the parties to a dispute decide to put into the terms of an agreement something which could not be put into an award? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Progress reported. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, I do. The honourable member for Macarthur, who insisted upon calling me the honourable member for Wakefield not once but on at least 4 occasions, was just as far astray of the facts when he purported to give to the Parliament an account of what he claimed to have been an expulsion of myself by the Australian Workers Union. I was never expelled by the AWU. If the honourable member will go outside this Parliament and repeat his statement that I was expelled by the AWU, or if anyone else cares to do so, I will plant a writ on them and give them, the opportunity of proving the statement in court. 
The resolution purporting to expel me as a member of the AWU was declared by the court to be null and void and not authorised by the rules of the union. The court went on to declare that the order was that 'the applicant, Clyde Robert Cameron, is and has at all times since the purported decision to expel him been a member of the Australian Workers Union and that Clyde Robert Cameron is, and has at all relevant times since the purported expulsion, been a vice-president of the Australian Workers Union. The resolution was an invalid, unlawful one; it was therefore null and void ab initio'. 
Sirring suspended from  6 to 8  p.m. 
The Opposition will vote against clause 54. This is a clause which, by quite a simple device- 
Before the question is put I indicate that the Opposition is opposing this provision. We have not time to call for a division on it. However, we will be dividing on one or two of the provisions but in respect of this provision we wish to place on record our opposition to it. Because of the timetable we do not want to take up time in a division. 
Proposed new section 22 agreed to. 
Proposed new sections 23 to 27  -  by leave - taken together. 
 The Opposition opposes this clause which deals with public interest and the national economy. I can speak only for myself on this matter, but I do not intend to rehash the whole question of public interest and national economy. However, we will be calling for a division and voting against this clause. 
The Oppostion wishes to identify, for the purposes of the record, the meaning of the clause, which proposes to make the increase of $4,400 a year granted to conciliation commissioners under the Bill retrospective to November Jast year. We want it to be clearly recorded that we object to the retrospective payment of this amount to conciliation commissioners. We will divide the Committee on the clause. 
 The honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  misunderstands the purpose of the section. The purpose of the section is not to make the task of the arbitration commissioner easier. The philosophy behind the section is that the aim of the Bill must be to make the job of the conciliation commissioner easier. It is argued that if the conciliation commissioner is able to conciliate in an atmosphere in which concessions are offered by the parties to each other in order to get agreement, if, the concessions having been made, the agreement still fails to eventuate, the parties are more likely to make those concessions if they are not made in the presence of the person who ultimately will arbitrate. The theory behind the matter is that the person who arbitrates could erase from his mind the knowledge that he has gleaned during conciliation proceedings. So it is not to assist the arbitrator. It will not work to practice, but the theory of the Bill is that everything must be done to assist the conciliatory processes and it would be an assistance to the conciliatory processes if concessions made in the course of a conference were kept from the man who ultimately would have to move in and arbitrate. 
The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  is quite right when he says that almost invariably it is because the conciliation commissioner hearing the matter or bringing the parties together in conference has the ultimate power to arbitrate the issue that the parties will come to agreement. 1 have sat in on arbitration proceedings and appeared before commissioners. What happens is that the commissioners will say: Look, you have no hope of getting from me 3 weeks sick leave a year. I cannot give it to you because it would be breaking new ground, so forget about that.' On the other hand, he says to the employers: 'If you expect to resist the unions' claim for a 10 per cent shift allowance for night work, let me tell you now that I am going to grant it. I would have to, because we have always granted this as the standard in the normal course. Why do you not get together? What about the unions dropping their claim for 3 weeks sick leave and the employer facing up to the fact that if he does not give the 10 per cent allowance for the night shift, 1 will have no alternative but to award it?' Those 2 examples over-simplify the matter because I am quoting cases where for years the full bench has laid down the normal standards for working conditions. But separate from these over-simple examples are some claims that are in the grey area, where there have been no Full Bench decisions by which a commissioner would feel bound. In these cases the commissioner, if he has arbitral powers to move in ultimately and settle the matter, can still rely upon his arbitral powers to bring about conciliation by saying: 'The Full Bench has not decided this matter yet and unless my decision is set aside on appeal 1 am inclined, as at present advised, to do this with this particular matter. The union may prefer not to have what I will give &gt;.nd take instead what the employer will give. [ suggest the parties get together. I will leave the room and I will come back when you want me to or I will resume the hearing tomorrow morning'. This is the judicial use of arbitral power which makes it so much easier for conciliation commissioners to do the job they now do. lt is a notorious fact that conciliators who have no arbitrary powers under the present Act find themselves with less machinery or with fewer weapons with which to do the job they are required to do, than has a conciliation commissioner. 1 tell the Government that I know of no demands by employers for this provision. 1 have talked with representatives of employers and they agree with members of the Opposition that this sort of thing just will not work. The Government will find that it will not work. The honourable member for Denison is astray in thinking that this is designed to help the arbitrator, lt is not. 
-It is practical to conciliate with the threat of arbitration. Let us be realists about this matter. We know how hard it is in this place to keep what happens in the party room away from the opposing political party. The same thing will happen in respect of conciliation and arbitration. It would help the arbitrator to know what was said. Of course the Government recognises that what is said might not be said if the arbitrator knows, but the arbitrator is at a tremendous advantage. If 1 know how the system works I cannot imagine an arbitrator not talking to a conciliation commissioner who has the same social status and salary as he enjoys himself and who works in the same office. No-one will convince me otherwise no matter what is contained in the Bill about not confiding to the arbitrator things that were said during the negotiations. The arbitrator will find out. It would be unwise to say that a conciliation commissioner would defy the statute and give this information to the arbitrator, though I think he would. I think that in practice conciliation commissioners will tell the arbitration commissioners what happened because they will realise that the arbitration commissioners will be helped by knowing these things. However, let us assume that they will not tell and that conciliation commissioners will be loyal to the statute. We cannot say they will not unless we have proof, but the parties themselves will tell. A conciliation commissioner is not like a judge. For conciliation to succeed or for an arbitration commissioner to be successful he must build up a rapport with those who appear before him. 
When I was involved in industrial matters, most settlements were achieved at the Earl of Zetland Hotel in Adelaide after a case was over. We settled more disputes in the saloon bar of the Earl of Zetland Hotel than we ever settled in the Australian Natives Association building in the formal presence of arbitration commissioners. The saloon was where we really got down to business. The parties had a few drinks and relaxed. The representatives of the employers would give a little and the representatives of the employees would do likewise. This is really the guts of arbitration and conciliation if one only understands it. 1 will never forget an occasion when I met with a group of brick manufacturers. 1 would not budge and their representative would not budge. He had a cold which made him worse. I took him over to the hotel and I said: 'A marvellous thing for colds is Guiness's stout and brandy'. He said: 'I will try it'. I had to drink it myself so as to make the story sound good. In the end we reached agreement. He later felt that he had agreed to too much. I tried to get reimbursement from the union for the money I had spent on drinks but could not, so I did not feel very happy either. But, joking aside, it is in this informal atmosphere that can be created that one can dispense with the kind of technical, formal approach that I am afraid will be reinjected into proceedings under this proposed new section. 
 The Opposition supports the comments made by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  I understand that the Opposition in the Senate may move an amendment along the lines suggested by the honourable member to provide that it shall be a defence to a prosecution under this proposed new section if a person can show that he had just cause for not attending the conference. The person may be sick or he may be away for other reasons. There are all sorts of reasons for a person being away, lt is not unusual to include in a section which carries such a penalty as a $1,000 fine some indication that a citizen has a defence based upon just grounds. The fact that this penalty has never been imposed or that it has never been found necessary to impose it in the past does not convince me that a defence provision ought not be included because we cannot be certain that the kind of men we now have in control of these procedures will always be in control. We would need only to have a commissioner or a presidential member who decided to exercise his right to act this way and, because we felt too tired today or tomorrow to take this p recitation, the whole Bill could be brought into discredit simply because somebody was unjustly treated under this proposed new section. The Opposition opposes these proposed new sections but we will not call a division on them because of the time factor. 
 Proposed new section 28 is one of the most obnoxious sections in the clause and we will have to divide the Committee on it. This section prohibits the certification of an agreement or the making of a consent award where the agreement or the award includes provisions that effect standard hours, the minimum wage, female rates or any question of annual leave or long service leave with pay. This proposed section will put an end to all certified agreements. No union and few employers will bother to certify agreements or register agreements when they discover that before this can be done the whole agreement, having been hammered out by negotiation and conciliation between the parties, must go before the Full Bench of the Commission for approval. Under the Act as it now stands the Commonwealth will have the right as intervener to be represented by counsel at the hearing before the Full Bench to give reasons why an agreement ought not be certified, and the Commonwealth will do it. The Minister suggested in his second reading speech that the Government had given up the idea of giving itself the right of appeal against agreements and consent awards. The Government has done it in another way; a more subtle and more crafty device has been discovered to achieve the same end. 
The proposed section provides that an agreement or consent award touching upon the minimum wage, the national wage, equal pay for the sexes or any question of annual leave or long service leave must be certified by the Full Bench. When the Full Bench proceeds to certify the proposed agreement or consent award the Commonwealth will move in as intervenor and use public funds to prevent the certification or registration of the agreement or the makins of the consent award. If there is anything better designed to throw a spanner into the works of industrial understanding I should like to know what it is. If one looks at the proposed new section 28 one sees in sub-section (2.) this mandatory provision: 
A Conciliation Commissioner shall refuse to certify a memorandum or make an award or order in accordance with this section if he is of the opinion that - 
the terms are not in settlement of an industrial dispute; 
any of the terms is a term that the Commission does not have power to include in an award; or 
it is not in the public interest that he should certify the memorandum or make the award or order. 
I have taken the trouble to look up the ruling of the Industrial Court in the case Cameron v. AWU, reported in 1959 in the econd volume of the Federal Law Reports. From that judgment one sees clearly stated by the majority decision of  Mr Justice 
Dunphy and  Mr Justice  Morgan, with the Chief Justice dissenting, that a rule of the union that gives a union executive power to expel a member for misconduct, when the executive is merely of the opinion that the person is guilty of misconduct, is an invalid rule because it is too vague, imprecise and uncertain as to its meaning, and therefore must be struck down and removed from the union rule book. If that set of principles, deemed to be invalid for the purpose of union rule, is now to be enshrined as part of the statute, what a mockery that makes of the decision of the Industrial Court in Cameron v. AWU. 
Let us look at paragraph (b) of subsection (2.) which reads: 
Any of the terms is a term that the Commission does not have power to include in an award. 
That is nonsense. 1 know all about the High Court ruling. The Government ought to recognise that some agreements might provide for things like seniority, absolute preference or preference for financial members of unions. procedures dealing with reinstatements, changes in techniques - all of them held by the High Court to be matters touching upon managerial prerogatives. I know all of this but one of the things we must learn in the 1970s is that the sacred thing called managerial prerogative cannot be treated as sacred any longer and notwithstanding the decisions of the High Court the time is coming when modern technology demands changes in techniques and alterations in procedures. No longer is it possible to leave all these decisions entirely to management. If the parties can reach agreement as to how they will operate, it is nonsense to say that it cannot be put into an agreement merely because it incorporates something which the Commission itself could not put there. The only body likely to object to an agreement of this nature is the Commonwealth Government and if the Government does seek to set aside an agreement which simply gives effect to an agreement reached between the parties as to techniques and operating procedures inside a factory, the Government ought to go out on its head. I can see no reason at all why these things should not be permitted in an agreement. 
Another matter I should like to mention in relation to proposed ne.w section 28 (2.) is that it provides that a Commissioner shall refuse to certify a memorandum or to make an award. 'Shall' ought to be 'may'. He should be given a discretion. 
I turn to proposed new section 31, which is really the nitty gritty of the clause. This proposed new section enables the Government to bring about its wage freezing policy, because it provides that the power of the Commission to make an award or to certify an agreement for, or altering, the standard hours of work, minimum wages, female rates or annual leave is exercisable only by a full bench, during which proceedings the Commonwealth itself can intervene to put its case for wage freezing. The Commonwealth has made it clear that it is very sorry to know that the waterside workers and the stevedoring companies have been able to settle their differences instead of having a nation-wide stoppage. They settled their differences by the shipping companies giving increased wages, against which under this proposed new section the Government could have intervened. I do not know where the Government thinks it is going. It calls for increased productivity. When the waterside workers and the miners double their productivity and get an agreement from the employers which recognises that fact, this Government wants to step in and prevent the agreement being put into force. I say no more about the matter at this stage because I think the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  will deal with this at length, but I say that we oppose these provisions of the Bill and will divide the Committee. 
The proposed new sections 32, 33, 34 and 35 give the Commission power to include in an award a bans clause or a clause relating to procedures for the settlement of disputes. They include also provision that in future it shall be mandatory upon  a  presidential member of the Commission to issue a prosecution certificate upon that certificate being applied for, except where the member is of the opinion that the dispute can be settled promptly without the issue of such a certificate. Of course, if a dispute is already in existence and men are on strike one might say that for all intents and purposes it will in future be mandatory for the prosecution certificate to be issued. When the prosecution certificate has been issued the employer need take only one more step in order to have a fine imposed upon the organisation concerned, as prescribed by section 119 of the Act. 
In those awards which contain clauses providing that it shall be an offence upon each individual worker to cease work, the issue of a prosecution certificate will give to the Industrial Court power to impose upon individual workers a maximum penalty of $1,000. Where the provisions of an award treat each day of a dispute as a separate offence the court will have power to impose a maximum penalty of $500 a day upon each employee. The enormity of this is assessed fully when one reflects back to the 1964 General MotorsHolden's Pty Ltd dispute which involved many thousands of workers and lasted for 15 days. The maximum amount which could have been imposed upon General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd on that occasion in the case of a lock-out was $7,500. However, the aggregate amount that could have been imposed upon the workers involved in a strike on that occasion was $2 12m. That is an indication of this Government's conception of justice. Under these proposed sections the workers would have become liable to pay $2 12m but the employer, the rich overseas conglomerate of General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd would be liable to a total of only $7,500. 
A feature of this Bill even worse than those to which I have referred has not yet been touched upon by the Minister. The proposed new sections we are now dealing with give the employer the right to seek  a  prosecution certificate from a judge of the Commission even though that employer has not bothered to notify the Commission of the existence of the dispute. This is something new and has absolutely no justification if one is intending to apply any degree of justice. 1 believe that the existing law made a previously bad law  a  little better, but it is still unacceptable to the trade union movement and ought to be unacceptable to anybody with any regard for the public interest. The former provisions allowed  a  presidential member of the Commission to grant  a  prosecution certificate which would attract to the persons the subject of the certificate the penalties to which I have referred but at least the judge had the right to have regard to the merits of the case. Under the proposed law the presidential member of the Commission will not be able to do that. As the law stands if the judge hearing an application for a prosecution certificate is of the opinion that the employer is at fault he may say that he believes the employer to be the one at fault and therefore has no right to ask for the issue of a certificate to prosecute the employees and for that reason he may refuse the application. However, under the proposed provisions he will not be able to do that. 
I cannot, recall any case where the procedures for settlement of dispute clauses, which were thrashed out by the tripartite conference, have ever been put into an award other than by agreement, and it is right that that should be the position. Although these clauses have never been written into awards other than by agreement, still  a  large number have been written into awards and agreements. It was not generally realised by unions writing into their awards and agreements these procedures for settlement of disputes that the procedures were in fact a bans clause and that anybody in breach of the procedures for settlement of disputes were just as liable to penalties stipulated under section 119 of the Act as they would have been had they been working under an award containing  a  normal bans clause put into that award by the Commission itself. From now on it will be possible for the Commission not only to insert into awards normal bans clauses but also procedures for settlement of disputes which so far have been looked upon as merely voluntary provisions for award inclusion. We must get down to the fundamentals of the right to strike. The Government will say that there is nothing in the law to prohibit the right to strike. However, there is  a  catch. It becomes  an  offence for an employee's representative or a union representative to incite people to strike or for him to advocate a strike, and is punishable under section 138 of the Act. 
Once a bans clause is put into an award it becomes an offence for an organisation to support a strike. Moreover, it does not matter whether an organisation supports the strike.It becomes liable to a prosecution and a penalty even if the members of the organisation go on strike against the wishes of the management committee of the organisation concerned. So the Government is saying: 'We cannot control strikes. The employer cannot prevent them. Now the union officials and the union have to carry the responsibility which we find we cannot carry. So unless you are able to prevent strikes you will be liable to the penalty stipulated in section 119'. 
Nothing could be more unjust than that a union whose members are carrying on a strike against the union's wishes, a strike which the management committee does not support, should be liable to prosecution and should be punished to the extent that proposed new section 119 entitles the court to impose punishment. This Bill is a most unjust Bill and a most unjust method of carrying out industrial relations. We will never cure industrial unrest by the measures which the Government proposes in this Bill. For 22 years the Government has demonstrated that it cannot control industrial unrest, and it will not do it this time. Until the Government gets down to the cause of industrial unrest we will always have industrial unrest. 
I want to correct something which my gallant and learned friend - learned anyhow - the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  said. He said that  Dr Evatt  put strike penalties into the Act or that he refused to take them out; it does not matter which. The history df this ma tter is as follows and I am drawing on a paper that I wrote some time ago after researching the matter thoroughly. From; 1930 till at least 1947 there were absolutely no penal clauses. Occasionally, but very occasionally, a provision was made in an award imposing obligations on organisations and in these cases the penalty then provided under the Act, namely a fine of £100,: could be imposed for a breach of the award. The offences would not be continuous offences, incurring daily penalties, as is now the case. The first occasion when penal powers reappeared was in 1947 as a result of the 40-hour week case. When the 40-hour week was introduced the arbitration court provided that reasonable overtime should be worked and that an organisation should not be concerned in any ban on overtime. This was said to be a temporary measure only. When one looks at volume 59 of the Commonwealth Arbitration Reports at page 609 one will see the specific reference and indications given by the court at that time. The breach of that provision could make an organisation liable to a penalty. But the penalty was £100. 
In 1951, on the application of employers, the court introduced bans clauses which it then held were punishable in the event of a breach by use of the powers defined, namely, prison for contempt. It should be noted that the present  President  of the Commonwealth Commission,  Sir Richard  Kirby, was a dissenting member of the Bench which made that decision. Among the comments that he made was this: 
I am not convinced that the Court should convert offences which are not in themselves in the nature of contempt into contempt for the purpose of obtaining a jurisdiction which it otherwise doss not possess. 
So, one wlD see that even up until that stage  -  1951  -  the Court obtained its power to punish strikes through its contempt powers and not from any other specific powers.  Mr Justice  Kirby, in reference to another point made by the employers, said: 
Nevertheless, to my, mind, it would be calamitous if their presence in awards- 
That is. the bans clause in awards -  were used as a means of imposing unlimited penalties,- 
That is what contempt powers give a court, or did at that time give a court -  in glaring contrast with the extremely limited scale laid down in the Act, on such Unions as commit and continue breaches of them. 

 Mr Justice Foster expressed part dissent, and the then Chief Justice,  Sir Raymond  Kelly and, of course,  Mr Justice  Dunphy approved the insertion of the bans provisions in the clause. 
However, since that time, the extension of the clauses has been largely by the courts and not by the Parliament, with some belated legislative action subsequently taken to endeavour to patch up the, difficulties which were being created by the Courts' insertion into awards things which the Court was not authorised by the Act to do. In the metal trades case which went to the High Court of Australia and which is reported in volume 82 of the Commonwealth Law Reports at page 208, the High Court, in considering bans clauses and the then state of the Act, considered an order that the union concerned should cause its members to work overtime, and in other judgments pointed out that this was far beyond any provision in the award or any Act at that time, and that the only requirement to be found in the award was that the organisation should not be a party to a ban. Subsequently, sections 29 (b) and (c), as they then stood, were amended to enable contempt proceedings to be taken for a breach of award, as well as of the Act. Later, as everyone knows, section 111 was added which gave the previous power to fine organisations $1,000 for failing to comply with an order of the Court. Quite plainly,  Dr Evatt  did not put into the Act the specific power of the Court to impose strike penalties. The imposition of strike penalties was secured by judicial act - by judge-made law. If you like, it was secured by stealth - not by a deliberate decision of this Parliament, as the honourable member for Moreton tries to imagine. 
I refer in passing to what my honourable friend said about the question of enforceable industrial agreements. 
Before I do mention that subject, as time may cut out on me, I categorically deny the assertion made by the Minister that I agree with the Government's policy on strike sanctions. I never have agreed with it and I challenge the Minister to quote any statement that I have ever made anywhere at any time, saying that I agree with strike sanctions being applied to people who refuse to accept work in accordance with the immediate requirements of the award. What I did say, what I still say and what I always will say, is that where freely negotiated voluntary industrial agreements are reached between unions and the employers it is the duty of the unions and the employers to honour those agreements. Where the unions decide, with the consent of their members, to incorporate into the agreement enforcement provisions, it is proper that those enforcement provisions shall apply. 
The Meat Industry Employees Union already has those kinds of enforcement provisions written into its agreements. They have worked and the. penalties imposed upon the employees for a breach of agreements are applied. The result is that the workers are .10 per cent better off than they could have been under the award. There are very few strikes now in this most turbulent of all industries because the unions officials are honouring their compact. Union officials are not people who repudiate freely negotiated voluntary agreements. It is an absolute lie and a distortion of the facts for anybody to say that union officials repudiate their agreements. Of course they do not. This would apply even to  Mr Edgar  Williams, whose organisation has signed agreements which attract from the Act the savage penalty incorporated within the Act - the $1,000 penalty contained in section 119. I do not think anybody could accuse  Mr Williams  of being a person who would break his word to the employers. 
He would never break his word to the employers. Once he told the employers, 'If you like to make this agreement with me., I will see that my members honour it',  Mr Williams  would carry out his word, no matter what the agreement provided for. It would not matter whether the agreement was a good or a bad one; he would honour it and see that his members stuck by it. So, it is ridiculous to suggest that  Mr Williams  is against incorporating enforcement provisions into agreements.  His  union makes agreements of that kind every year and the honourable member for Moreton knows it. 
The Australian Labor Party policy is not in shreds, as the honourable member said. The Australian Council of Trade Unions has stated quite clearly that where unions make agreements under its auspices, the ACTU will see that the agreement is carried out. The Townsville meeting of the Federal Executive of the Australian Labor Party supported my concept of industrial agreement, saying that where unions recommended to their members that agreements should contain enforcement provisions and the members agreed to those enforcement provisions, that was a matter for the. unions themselves to determine. It is their business and of course they are bound by whatever they agree. That is what I have said. I have said it all along. I say it now, and that will be the policy on which we will fight the election. It is a policy that will work, but the Government's policy - this stupid policy that we are now debating - just will not work any better than it has over the last 22 years. 
Motion (by  Mr Lynch)  put: 
That  the Question  be now out. 
 I oppose this provision. This is another one of the proposals the Government has put forward that just will not work. The Government knows that it will not work. It is a good political gimmick. It sounds good at electioneering time. It is perhaps a means of obtaining donations to the campaign fund by foolish, naive employers who think that by having secret ballots on strikes we will stop strikes. What I want employers to know - and I am surprised that the Government did not tell them this - is that we have had this sort of provision in the Act now for many years. It has been in the Act for decades. The law, in section 45 of the Act, already allows this to be done. The Government has never implemented section 45. For 22 years this section has lain dormant in the Act. Not once has the Government ever resorted to it, and it had good reason not to use it. The only previous occasion on which it was ever actually implemented was during the timber workers strike of 1929, when a ballot was conducted and by an overwhelming majority the workers in the timber dispute decided to support the strike. This supports what we have always said: It is not the union officials who cause strikes; the union officials merely react to the demands that come from the people at the factory floor level for strike action when those people feel that so-called constitutional means have failed them. 
Another feature of the provision - this shows the duplicity of the Government's whole attitude - is that, when a strike ballot is taken and a strike is approved in cases where the award concerned contains a provision prohibiting individual employees from going on strike, it is still an offence and the individual employees who have had their strike ballot and voted in favour of the strike are still acting in contravention of the award, even after the strike ballot is held. 
-It is not binding on anybody at all. It is just a cheap political gimmick that will not work. The Government knows that it will not work. In fact I happen to know - I cannot reveal to the Minister my source of information, but it certainly was not one of hig officers - that the officers of his Department prepared a paper on the operation of section 45 and the whole question of strike ballots, and they told his predecessor that section 45 would not work and that it was unenforceable or unworkable. The officers of the Department who prepared that paper were absolutely correct. They knew what they were talking about. The Minister says: 'I do not want good advice; I want political advice. I want something that will get us some votes. I want something that makes it sound as though I am fighting the unions and I am fighting against strikes. I want people to think that all of a sudden I have a secret weapon that will put an end to all strikes. We never had it before, it is something I have just discovered.' Of course, it was not a recent discovery at all; it has been in the Act for donkey's years. It has never worked and never will work. 

 Mr Joe Riordan, who cannot be said to be a raving, extreme left winger or a communist, says that the whole thing is preposterous. He says that once we pass this law we will pass the control of the trade union movement and policies on strikes over to the militant shop stewards and to other people who are closer to the ear of the rank and file than are the union officials. He says that it is quite calamitous to bring in such a proposal. On the employers side,  Mr McPhee  said that the Chamber of Manufactures had never asked for secret ballots to be introduced, although it would consider any proposals that the Government would make. He said that the Chamber would rather see legislation which confined the election of union officials to no more than 3 years. Then the rank and file could vote out union officials who made decisions with which they were dissatisfied. This is the whole crux of the matter. 
If union officials, as the Minister seems to think, impose their will upon a reluctant rank and file and force them to go on strike when they do not want to go on strike the rank and file will most certainly throw them out. I have been a union official as have some other honourable members. We know that you cannot with utter and total abandon disregard the views of the rank and file. I shall quote from the leading article of the 'Canberra Times' of 8th September  1971.  It dealt with the union opposition to secret ballots for strikes and the way that union officials see the position. The article also dealt with the New South Wales legislation; which is the legislation upon which the present proposal has been patterned to a large extent. The article states: 
As they see it, the NSW legislation would make the unions the only pressure groups in that State compelled by law to consult their entire memberships before making decisions which they believe come within the ordinary scope of their administration. Other organisations are deemed capable of administering their affairs, and indeed of making decisions that affect the whole community, without having to take a poll of all their members - in the case of business undertakings, their shareholders, and in the case of Members of Parliament, their electors. 
Let us have a look at the position which a union official holds. A union official is elected by his members to act for them for 3 years, the same as this Government was elected by the people to act for 3 years. Once elected, union officials have as much right as has the Government during that 3- year period to make judgments and decisions on behalf of the members they represent in the way they see representation to be properly applied. Does anybody suggest that every time the Government presents a Bill that it rush back and hold a referendum of the people to see whether they approve of it? Of course not. The Govern-, ment would laugh such a proposal right out of court, and rightly sp.' The article continues: , ' ' 
The traditional apathy of big memberships poses the question also of 'what percentage of returned ballots could be considered ' a Representative expression of opinion. And if a ballot gave a decision in favour of a strike would a second ballot be necessary to bring the strike to an end? 
Obviously there would have to be. a second ballot to bring the strike to an end. Once the first ballot of the rank and file decided in favour of the strike, what right would the union officials have, according to the Government's own argument and reasoning, to order them back to work once they  had decided by secret ballot that they would not go to work. The article con- ,tinues 
The legislators in NSW, who ,are expected to be followed by their counterparts in Queensland and Victoria, are suspected of basing their belief in the effectiveness of the secret ballot on one or more of a number of assumptions (hat' are not proven: That compulsory ballots would lead to fewer strikes, that the union rank, and file is less militant than the leadership, and that union officials often try to lead their members up the garden path of politics or planned disruption. 
Nothing could be more ridiculous. The honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr 
Collard), the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Birrell),  the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb),  the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis),  the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  and I- 
The honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  lays claim also to the same fame that we have in our time been full time union officials. We know how absurd it is to suggest that members can be led up the garden path and forced to strike against their will. Then the article goes on to say: 
It is clear that  a  ballot held in  a  situation of this kindwould strengthen and not weaken the unions' stand. 
Time and time again union officials find themselves compelled to advise their members to go back to work, against the wishes of the members. The article continues: 
One alternative would be to make it a condition for the registration of a union that its constitution provide that certain strikes may not be undertaken without the consent of a committee of management that would include the executive of the union and representatives of defined districts or segments of the union. 
Most union rules already provide that whenever the members want to have a plebiscite as to whether they will remain on strike or go on strike they may do so by following the normal, simple processes of the rules. That is the way it ought to operate. Union rules that do not contain these provisions should have them. Most of them do, but those that do not should have them. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
 Mr Chairman,  I think that when you see the point that the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  was trying to get cleared up you and the Committee will understand why he is insisting upon an answer. Clause 68 of the Bill purports to exempt from the provisions of the Bill, relative to amalgamation procedures, any application for amalgamation that was made before this Bill was put through both Houses. 
The honourable member for Stirling wants to know whether, in the event of the proceedings now before the Industrial Court going against the amalgamated unions and the Court holding that the application was not properly lodged, and that it therefore was a nullity, and that there was in fact no application legally before the Registrar, this clause will not help them. This clause prescribes that the Act does not apply in relation to an amalgamation in relation to which, before the date of commencement of this section, an application was made to the Registrar in accordance with section 139 of the principal Act. That is all the honourable member wants to clear up. I think that paragraph (c) ought to be inserted to the effect that an application for amalgamation between the Amalgamated Engineering Union, the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society of Australia and the Sheet Metal Workers Union shall be deemed to be an application made in accordance with the  provisions of the principal Act. I am talking off the cuff, but I am sure the Parliamentary Counsel will understand from the Hansard report what I am seeking. 
Unless the Government does this, the amalgamated unions run the risk, after long delays, of being told that this amalgamation, which really sparked off the whole controversy following an attempt by the Government to reach a compromise with the Democratic Labor Party, will not be allowed to proceed. They will be back where they started and they will have to commence their amalgamation procedures right from the beginning, going through the formalities stipulated in the new legislation for amalgamations. It will take 3 times as long to comply with those formalities as it takes to comply with the present requirements of the Act, and it has taken these unions more than 2 years to comply with them. After going through all  that, if the Industrial Court holds that the application was not validly made, it will mean that the application itself was a nullity, that there was no application and that the protection which prima facie this provision gives to the amalgamation processes will come to nothing. 
I think the Minister ought to indicate the position now. I know that already he has the amended Bill in that amended form printed and ready to go to the Senate in the morning. In the Senate he ought to indicate to the Committee that he is prepared to place the position regarding amalgamation beyond any doubt. It must be remembered that one of the judges sitting on the case is not well. He may take a long time to give his decision. There is no way of getting an order of mandamus against a judge of the Industrial Court, and until that judge writes his judgment the whole matter will be delayed and nothing will be brought to fruition. However, if the Government makes it clear that notwithstanding any decision taken by the Industrial Court in the proceedings now before it the amalgamation now under way will be completed, it will not matter how long the Industrial Court takes to deliver its judgment on the point now at issue. In those circumstances the amalgamation would be able to proceed. 
This Bill and the Northern Territory (Administration) Bill will extend to the Northern Territory and the Aus tralian Capital Territory something which cannot be extended to the States of the Commonwealth, the meaning of the word industry' within the context of this legislation to cover fire fighters, nurses, police officers, teachers and similar persons who would be excluded from being covered in the States as a consequence of the High Court decision in the case of Pitfield v. Franki, commonly known as the 'fire fighters case'. Members on this side of the House are glad that the Government has extended these provisions to the Commonwealth Territories but regret that similar extension cannot be made to the States. At any rate, it is better to do this than to do nothing and the Opposition will give both Bills a quick passage. They do something we have wanted to do for a long time. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Is the Treasurer aware that when I moved the motion at the Launceston conference of the Australian Labor Party to provide for adequate representation of trade unions on boards, commissions, trusts, etc., and in the management of banking, insurance, mass media, transport and other things I told the conference that the Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the Opposition in the 
Senate,  Senator Murphy,  Q.C., had made it clear to our committee that there was no constitutional power- 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I have been misrepresented. I wish the Prime Minister would cheer up. 
-It might not be as bad as the gallup polls suggest. But I think it is worse. 
In answer to the question that I asked, the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  said that I had indicated that at Launceston the Australian Labor Party had carried a resolution which it knew it could not carry out or did not intend to cary out. I said nothing of the kind in my question to the Treasurer, as every honourable member will know. What I said was that at Launceston the Labor Party adopted the resolution moved by me after I had explained clearly to the conference that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and  Senator Murphy,  Q.C. had made it clear to the committee recommending the proposal that there was no constitutional power to bring in such legislation as was passed in West Germany by the Christian Democrat Government there, 20 years ago or thereabouts 
I am. 
Yes. That is what I make clear to the Parliament. It was made perfectly clear to the conference that all that a Labor Government could do would be to encourage the development that is already taking place in Australia, where important companies are putting representatives of unions on their boards of management, and with very good effect. 
Yes. Then the Treasurer went on to say that I was telling an untruth - he suggested it but I do not think that he would intend that to be inferred - or misleading the Parliament when I said that I had told the conference that it was not possible to provide for representatives of trade unions to be on the boards of Government enterprises, such as the Australian Broadcasting Commission and bodies and commissions of this kind. I did not say that. At no stage did I say that the Labor Government could not put union representatives on these boards. Why, this present Government has put representatives of employers and graziers on various boards, and of course we could do the same thing. 
I raise a point of order. 
Oh, sit down. My point of order is this: I sought leave to make a personal statement so that I could traverse the whole field of misrepresentation, but the Prime Minister refused to give me leave. Now the Treasurer is trying to do the same thing. I am glad you have stopped him,  Mr Speaker. 
asked the Minister for Labour  and  National Service, upon notice: 
Does he support the common practice of members of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission of refusing to hear a union claim while members of the union concerned are on strike. 
If so, how can the machinery of conciliation and arbitration carry out its obligation to settle disputes when members of the Commission will not hear the claim at the very time when the machinery of conciliation and arbitration should be most active. 
Can he say whether the New South Wales Industrial Arbitration Act requires tribunals to investigate the merits of a dispute notwithstanding that members of the union concerned are on strike. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
In what unions registered under the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act is a member disqualified from nominating for office unless he has been (a) a member for at least 5 years and (b) continuously financial for at least 3 years, immediately prior to the date of nomination. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Which of the unions registered under the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act have rules which permit members of an incumbent management committee to sit in judgment on rival candidates' rights to nominate for office. 
 Yes, I second the motion. This is easily the most serious of all charges that can be laid. I do not know whether it is true. No-one has the right to assume that the charge is true. The charge has been made and, if it is true, it is a very serious matter and would put the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in the position where he would have to resign or be removed from Cabinet. Precedents for this can be traced back to the British House of Commons on many occasions. Hugh Dalton was asked and forced to resign by the Attlee Government when he released information touching upon matters of this character and this Parliament owes it to itself, to the community and to the great Australian nation never to allow a Minister entrusted with secrets of State to be in a position where he can handle them idly, carelessly, recklessly or in a way which would enable other citizens, especially privileged citizens of the community, to make enormous sums of money. Huge amounts could be involved in foreknowledge of excise changes. One does not need to be terribly sharp in mind to understand the seriousness of this charge. It has been alleged - and when the Privileges Committee is hearing this matter witnesses will be called, or can be called - to show that the statement which the Minister read to the House after 8 o'clock was- 
The statement of the Minister for Primary Industry was on the desk of the honourable member for Angas. That is not an indictment of the honourable member for Angas but of the Minister who had custody of this most important and highly confidential information. The Minister must have betrayed his trust or else somebody in his office who betrayed their's for the Press to have known of it at the time when the honourable member for Angas said that he first heard of it and for the radio to have been able to  refer  to it at 1 o'clock in the afternoon. I want to refer briefly to a section of the Crimes Act to indicate why this matter must go to the Privileges Committee. Other sections relate to this subject matter, but section 79 has a direct bearing upon what has happened, or what is alleged to have happened. I do not say that I can prove it. It has not been proved, and in fairness to the Minister this must be said. There is only circumstantial evidence, very strong circumstantial evidence, to suggest that the Minister is guilty of an offence against the Crimes Act. But there is no proof and no-one at this stage has a right to charge him with it or to accuse him of the offence. The relevant part of section 79 states: 
If any person having in his possession or control any . . . document, or information, which  . . has been entrusted in confidence to him by any person holding office under the King or the Commonwealth, or which he has obtained owing to his position as a person who holds or has held office under the King or the Commonwealth,  . . communicates the . . . document, or information to any person, other than a person to whom he is authorised to communicate it, or a person to whom it is, in the interest of the Commonwealth or of some part of the King's Dominions, his duty to communicate it, . . . shall be guilty of an offence. 
Penalty: Imprisonment for  7  years. 
Honourable members opposite are calling out, but there is nothing funny about this at all. 
I say this in all seriousness. When a person is accused of committing an offence that carries a penalty of 7 years imprisonment it is not a joke. It is not fair to the person concerned for the charge to be made without his having the opportunity of disproving it. It is utterly unjust to say that he is guilty, until it is proven. I therefore support the motion for the reasons I have already indicated. This is the most serious charge I have ever heard levelled directly in this Parliament against a Minister of the Crown. I invite any other honourable member present to say that he can remember a Minister of the Crown having laid against him a charge which carries a penalty of 7 years imprisonment. This is reaching a point where unless this Minister is acquitted by the Privileges Committee this Parliament has to impeach him. 
You are quite right,  Mr Speaker.  I would not say that a person was guilty on what has been said tonight. I would have no right to say that he is guilty. I think I made it clear that - and I emphasise it - I was not saying that he is guilty. I said that there was a charge and it had to be answered. I do not want to belabour the point. It is too serious a matter for us to belabour it. The Minister is entitled to be given a fair opportunity and we have no right, at this stage of the proceedings, to do more than merely ask that the matter go to the Privileges Committee, because to do more than that perhaps could prejudice the Minister's position when the Privileges Committee deals with the matter. But that the Privileges Committee must deal with it, of course, is surely incontestable. Nobody will contest my assertion and demand that the Privileges Committee deal with it. To do otherwise is to do an injustice to the Parliament and to the people and also a grave injustice to the Minister. He must be given the opportunity to clear his name. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Has the Commonwealth sought an opinion on whether the Parliament has the power to pass legislation to provide that voluntary industrial agreements shall be enforceable under the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
If so, will be make available the terms of this advice. 
If no opinion has been sought, will he take steps to obtain clarification of the Commonwealth's powers in relation to voluntary agreements especially, in cases where (a) there is no dispute as defined by the High Court, (b) the agreement relates to a non-interstate dispute, (c) the agreement was made without the existence of a third party conciliator or arbitrator and (d) the industrial agreement relates to undertakings or callings that have been defined as nonindustrial by the High Court. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that Australian built vessels are now laid up while overseas owned vessels are operating under charter as a consequence of a permit issued by him under Section 286(l)(b) of the Navigation Act. 
Is it also a fact that as a consequence of bis action the 'Iron Somersby' is the centre of an industrial dispute which could lead to a national shipping strike. 
Does the Government agree with the contention of the Maritime Unions that Australian ships now laid up should be used for the transport of iron ore in preference to foreign owned ships. 
Will he give his reasons for issuing a permit to Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd to operate the Iron Somersby' when Australian built and subsidised vessels belonging to the Commonwealth are idle. 
I will prove before I sit down that this Government is complacent, that it is responsible for the present very high rate of unemployment and has no plans to cure the present unemployment situation. Before I sit down I will rely upon an official admission by the Government through the voice of the Treasurer of the Commonwealth of Australia  (Mr Snedden)  to show that this Government contemplates higher unemployment at this time next year than there is at this time this year. Because of the Standing Orders I do not have time to give to the House full details including facts and figures to support the assertions that I am about to make but my colleague the incoming Treasurer, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  will give those details to the Parliament so that honourable members will be able to judge for themselves the true situation which we are now facing. 
I want to deal in broad outline with the problem. I begin by reminding the Parliament that the total workforce in Australia is more than 5 million but the total number of employees so designated is 4.5 million. Also to be taken into account iiI C 203,800 school leavers who have to be found jobs this year, 77,000 migrants who have to be found jobs - these are official figures that I am citing - plus an unknown number, estimated to be 30,000, of  rna.ried  women wanting to re-enter the workforce after having reared their children to an age which makes it possible for them to do so. We can see that if we are to absorb all of the people who wish to find pbs each year we have to be able to find work each year for 303,000- that is the figure I have just quoted - less obsolescent workers who retire because of old age or sickness. 
Putting those at the highest possible level of 113,000 a year - the number is not so great but to err on the side of generosity towards the Government let us say that it is 113,000 a year - you are still left with the need to find 190,000 new jobs each year. If you cannot find 190,000 new jobs each year, if your work force is not expanding at a rate sufficient to do that, if the economy is not expanding at that rate, then to the extent that you fall short of that target so will the existing number of unemployed be increased by this time next year. 
Let us have a look at what has happened to economic expansion to see whether or not we will reach the target. We need an expansion in the work force - which is another way, if you like, of saying that we need an expansion in the economy - of about 4 per cent a year, and until this Government's disastrous Budget of last year upset the order of things in this country we were witnessing an expansion in the work force of percentages ranging from 3.8 per cent to a little more than 4 per cent each year. 
Two years ago the rate of expansion was in the order of 3.9 per cent; 166,000 new people were put into the work force in that year representing, as I say, about 3.9 per cent of the then total work force which was not as great as it is now. In order to have an economy that is healthy enough and is expanding at a rate that is rapid enough to absorb all those school leavers, married women and migrants who want work, we ought to be able to maintain an expansion of roughly 4 per cent. If we could do this we would find that the number of people in the work force in 3 years time would need to be one million more than there were 3 years ago. That is the degree of expansion for which we must look if we are to avoid unemployment. 
Every time the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  makes a monthly statement on the employment situation he begins with the stereotype introduction: T am very pleased with the figures released this month and I have great confidence that the employment position is flattening out'. He uses various other words for 'flattening' which he finds from his Roget's Thesaurus when he presents his new monthly report. But they all mean the same thing - that he is pleased with the result, that he is very confident of the future and that the figures are flattening out. It depends how you use the words 'flattening out', because when they are used in one context he is quite right, the figures are flattening out. 
Maybe it is too plebeian for the Minister but one day he may come around to using it; he will run out of words meaning the same thing so he will be left with no alternative but to use it or repeat some of the other words, but they all mean the same thing. If the Minister's advertence to the words flattening out' means what I think he ought to have had in mind we are reaching a very serious situation because the work force has nearly flattened out to a position where it is now static and is no longer able to absorb the 190,000 extra people who will need to be absorbed if we are to cure the unemployment situation. Indeed, the work force has flattened out to such an extent in the manufacturing industry - my colleague the honourable member for Melbourne Ports will give the precise figures on this - that there are fewer men working in the manufacturing industry today than there were 2 years ago. Yet this is an economy which demands an increase in the work force of 4 per cent. The manufacturing section of the work force, which is a substantial section and is capable of providing employment for 1.3 million of our total work force, has now already dipped into decline and is employing fewer than it was last year and the decline is continuing; there has been no evidence at all of any arrest in the decline. Unless we can get a government quickly enough to have a completely new attitude towards the economic problems that face this country our unemployment situation will be easy enough to forecast, because one will simply be able to add 190,000 on to each year's current unemployment figures. 
-It cannot. The reason that the Government is going to have an election this year is that it knows that it cannot cure the unemployment position. It knows, on its own admission, that there will be 100,000 more people out of work this time next year than there are at the present time. So, on its own figures, on its own admission and on its own confession, we will have 200,000 people out of work next year. I said I would prove it. I quote now from 
Statement No. 1 attached to the Budget Speech of 1972-73 delivered on 15th August 1972 by none other than - to give him his full title - the Right Honourable B. M. Snedden, Q.C., M.P., J.P.: 
In 1972-73 gross national product at constant prices seems likely, on present indications and unforeseen major new developments apart, to increase by about S per cent. 
Now listen to this: 
This estimate should be reflected in increases of the order of 2 per cent in employment. 

 Sir, 2 per cent in employment represents a total of 90,000 new jobs a year when we want 190.000 new jobs a year. We have a government that will be going to the country shortly with an admission, by its own Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  that it now has lost control of the employment situation. The admission made by the Government's own Treasurer - it was read to the Parliament last night and is enshrined for ever now in the official printed copy of the Budget Speech - was that we can expect unemployment to increase at the rate of 100,000 every year from now on. But unless the Treasurer's estimates are more accurate than the estimates and the great optimism displayed each month by the Minister for Labour and National Service, the chances are that what is happening in the manufacturing industry, which is a decline in employment, rather than an increase of 90,000 a year, will be reflected in all the other industries as well. If that occurs we will not have to add 100,000 people to the pool of unemployment each year, as the Treasurer himself now forecasts will be the case; we will have to add 190,000 or perhaps 200,000 people to the unemployment pool each year. 
Why is it happening? There is a simple answer to K. The present situation was brought about by the Budget of last year. 
The Budget of last year failed to recognise that the great problem that we were facing was consumer resistance in the community; that the money was there but that it was in the hands of the wrong people. The people who had the money and who could have bought the things that the factories and shops were turning out were too afraid to spend, and the people who would have had to buy them because they needed them urgently could not get the money to purchase them. So we had this situation. 
How on earth will we ever be able to cure the unemployment situation while the ordinary working man on the national minimum wage is being told that he has to be able to satisfy all his needs on a miserable $51.60 a week? A man with a wife and 1.8 children just cannot live on that sum. They cannot buy all the things they need, and it is because they cannot buy all the things they need that the factories cannot employ all the men they need. There is too much money going into the hands of the veryrich. There is too little going into the hands of the people whose needs are the greatest. 
The Government's attitude towards a wages policy was exemplified in a speech by the Minister for Labour and National Service when he called for wage restraint upon those people to whom I have just referred. He said that wage restraint must be exercised upon the ordinary nian who is now receiving $51.60, and in the same speech he said that we have to give the conciliation commissioners an increase of $84 a week. Talk about injustice. The honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  could quote from the Bible where it says to take from those who do not have and give to those who do have, or something to that effect. It is the same old story. It is the failure of the Government to understand the needs of the little people and that one cannot live on the miserable $20 a week old age pension. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I want to put to rest once and for all the misrepresentations that are being made about Australian Labor Party policy in relation to civil actions for torts committed or alleged to have been committed by members of unions, officers of unions, or by unions themselves in pursuance of industrial disputes or industrial matters. It is quite untrue, as  Senator Greenwood  has been reported as saying, and as the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  almost said - but I think knew enough about the subject to hang back just enough to be on the safe side - that the Labor Party believes that the law should be altered to prevent any civil action against a unionist who commits any breach of the ordinary civil law. Nothing is further from the truth. We do not endorse the destruction of property in pursuance of industrial disputes. We certainly abhor recourse to thuggery in pursuance of industrial disputes, either between factions of a union or between unions and employers. 
The decision of the Labor Party's Federal Conference was that we should alter the Act to provide for participatory democracy in union affairs, including a provision for the immunity of unions from actions for tort in respect of torts alleged to have been committed by or on behalf of a trade union in contemplation or furtherance of a trade dispute. These are the precise words used by the royal commission of Lord Donovan, known as the Donovan Commission, which inquired into the question of trade unions in the United Kingdom. The Labor Party adopted the wording in toto because it expresses in the most sophisticated legal terms what the law of England has been or was thought to have been since 1871. In the original Trade Union Act of 1871 the House of Commons gave to the trade unions immunity from actions for torts which the Australian Labor Party says should be applied in this day and age. This immunity continued to be accepted as the law until the famous Taff Vale case in 1901 which went on appeal in July 1902 to the House of Lords, when this was found not to be the case. 
The Trade Disputes Act of 1906 was altered by the House of Commons to restore to the trade union movementof the United Kingdom the immunity from actions for torts which everybody thought until the Taff Vale case it had enjoyed. From 1906 the law remained as everyone thought the House of Commons had made it, giving trade unions the immunity to which the Labor Party refers. Then in 1964, in the case known as Rookes v. Barnard the courts of England again took the view that the law of 1906 had not given to the unions the immunity which the House of Commons thought it was conferring upon them. So the Wilson Government in 1965 altered the law yet again to give to unions complete immunity from civil actions for torts in respect of normal industrial actions or in pursuit of industrial action to bring about a certain industrial result. The law of the United States, Canada and every other country where collective bargaining operates, provides for the same immunity except during the currency of an agreement. The law in Queensland provides for it and has done so for more than 50 years. This law, which gives immunity to unions against actions for torts, has remained unaltered in Queensland for the last 15 years, during which Queensland has been governed by a Country Party and Liberal Party coalition. It has not been altered there and I suggest there is a very good reason why it should not have been. 
If unions are not to be given immunity from actions for torts a situation could arise whereby, for instance, in the 15- working-day dispute in 1964 between the Vehicle Builders Union and the General Motors-Holden's Ltd the union could be sued for well over $100m. This is absurd and becomes more absurd when it is realised that under the law onceliability is established it is not within the competence of a court to award one single cent less than the full extent of the damage suffered by the employer concerned. So, once General Motors is able to prove liability, to prove that the union is culpable and to prove that it has suffered damage, all that remains to be done is to assess its damages which would amount to more than $100m. 
Such an absurd situation in this country would mean the complete and utter destruction of arbitration as we know it - the destruction of an orderly, constitutional method of settling disputes between employers and employees. Disputes would then be settled by arson, destruction of property by bloodshed or by recourse to violence on the part of various people. There are some people and some elements in this community who would like exactly that form of settling disputes if they could have it. They listen to Shelley's famous poem: 
Rise like Hons after slumber, In unvanquishable number, Shake your chains to earth like dew, Which in sleep had fallen on you, Ye are many- they are few. 
It would be a case of victory for the big battalions. That is what inevitably would result from any attempt to refuse the trade unions the sort of immunity which arbitration, everybody believed, gave them. 
Until recently there had been only one case in Australia in which recourse to the Taff Vale decision was had, and that was in 1902. That was the case of Warana Station v. The Australian Workers Union, Spence and Macdonell. 1902 was the year of the Industrial Arbitration Act of New South Wales which introduced into that State for the first time the new system of industrial arbitration. This was followed 2 years later, in 1904, by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act. It firmly implanted in the minds of everybody that this was a new province of law and order in which the old resort to civil actions for damages was no longer part of the Australian law. Then 2 or 3 years ago a few smart lawyers decided that they would resurrect from the graveyard of ancient case law the old Taff Vale case. They started to use the civil law in order to impose penalties upon unions which used this form of industrial action. The Kangaroo Island dispute was a classic example in which the employers dug into the graveyard of ancient English industrial law to drag out an old skeleton that had been put safely to rest in this country more than 60 years before, and in England in 1871, so the House of Commons in those dim, distant days believed. To have brought it out and to have then required Jim Dunford, the defendant in that case, to be responsible for meeting the costs of what was a test case on the common law of the country was, in my opinion, the worst form of infamy that I can think of. 
Time and time again whenever there has been a test case as to what the law really means - this was a test case to determine the common law of Australia because until then no-one knew what the law was - whether it has been in the High Court or sometimes in the Supreme Court, the governments of Australia, both Liberal and Labor alike, have met the costs of the litigation to the party who lost or to the party who won when he was not able to recover the money from the other party. There is nothing new about it. lt is the proper procedure. No single individual citizen of this country ought to be called upon to pay from his own pocket the costs of determining what is the common law of the land in which he lives so that the rest of Australia's citizens may learn from the exercise which he has undertaken. 
I will not go beyond my time limit.  I  gave my word that I would speak for no longer than 10 minutes. I could say a lot more about this matter because it is an exercise that ought to be understood. On this very principle stands the constitutionality of labour and management conflicts. If the Government introduces, succours and supports the idea that unions can be brought to the civil courts, prosecuted and ordered to pay damages as compensation, it will destroy arbitration as we now know it. The Government is putting in place of the 72-year-old arbitration system of peacefully and constitutionally settling these disputes between management and labour the law of the jungle in which the big battalions will always win because, in the words of Shelley, in his call  to  the working men of England, 'ye are many - they are few'. If the Government is planning  to  settle industrial disputes by forcing the bg battalions simply  to  bash it out against the employers - tearing down private property, resorting to arson, destruction, physical violence and revolution then I can only say they have forgotten that the French Revolution, the American Revolution and the Russian Revolution started because a few people in seats of power did not realise that right under their noses a revolution was erupting and could not see that when people were crying out for bread they could not be satisfied by being given cake when there was no cake to give them. 
Yes. I have been misrepresented in 2 ways. The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  said that 1 had stated that the right of employers to sue unions did not apply in the United States of America. I did not say that at all. What I said was that in the United States it was not possible while an agreement was current for a union to break the agreement but that once the agreement expired it was not within the competence of the employer to sue a union for any breach of contract or for damages. The other aspect in which I was grossly misrepresented was his statement that at the Townsville Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party I was soundly defeated by the Federal Executive and that  Mr Hartley's  resolution - the Minister will not deny this- 
Did the 
Minister say that  Mr Hartley's  resolution was adopted? 
Let us forget about whether the resolution was adopted at Townsville. That happens to be where the Federal Conference was held. Let us not argue about where it was. The Minister said that the Federal Executive of the Labor Party at the end of last year  -  I take it that is in December, because that is when the Townsville meeting was held - carried a resolution, apparently insisted upon by the bete noire of the Labor Party, Bill Hartley. It so happens that the bete noire of the Labor Party has misinformed the Minister if he told him that and if the Minister was foolish enough to believe what  Mr Hartley  told him. I can assume that this must have happened. 
The resolution carried by the Executive was the reso lution moved by my good self, and the result of my resolution was that the amendment moved by the Minister's bete noire was soundly defeated by an overwhelming majority. I do not know whether anybody voted for  Mr Hartley's  amendment. The resolution carried is that resolution that was carried by the Launceston conference and proudly proclaimed by me ever since whenever I attend meetings or seminars or whenever I write a paper on industrial relations. The Minister is sadly astray, as he always is. He would need to do a lot better than he has done if he wants to impress people between now and election day. 
on having the good sense to accept the recommendations contained in the paper and on having read it so well to the Parliament. He is very good at reading papers. Whatever ability he may lack, he is an excellent reader of documents prepared by his Department. 
I congratulate the departmental officers on the paper because it follows very much along the lines of a similar document written by the Australian Labor Party's Federal Conference in Launceston last year and recently elaborated upon by my good self in a paper that I delivered to the Industrial Relations Society of South Australia. I supplied a copy of that paper to the Department of Labour and National Service in the hope - it was a forlorn hope at the time - that it might see fit to follow the excellent propositions that I put forward in that paper. I am more than happy with the response that has come from the Department to the propositions that I put forward. 
This paper read by the Minister contains propositions which have gone still further than the propositions which I spelt out in liner detail in my speech to the Industrial Relations Society on the 7th of this month. I must say that, in the main, I agree with what is proposed here. I do not agree with all of it, and 1 shall touch upon some of the points of disagreement, although there are not many. I may not have time to deal with all of them, but really they are minor. 
I am glad to notice that the Minister has come to recognise the importance of job satisfaction. It is true, as I said in my paper to the Industrial Relations Society, that job satisfaction today is terribly important. A man's working environment has to be treated as part of his total environment, because a working man spends more than half his waking hours in the workshop. Therefore it is important that those hours are made as congenial as possible, that they are made as interesting as possible and that where tedium and monotony can be eliminated from the work place that is done. The Government, if need be, ought to meet the cost of controlled experimentation at the factory floor level by those firms which are willing to engage in experimentation of this kind. 
Apparently the Government has not gone quite as far as I would like it to go in that direction. But it is a very refreshing and healthy change of attitude on the part of this Government. I wish that the Minister had taken up his present portfolio many years earlier, although I would have preferred him to concentrate on this subject rather than some of the other aspects of labour and national service that he has seen fit to poke his nose into over the last few years. On this aspect of labour and national service he is as good as he is bad on all the other aspects of the Department's activities. He is very sensible in recognising the need to gather together a task force of training personnel, lt is no good having students until we have the teachers. The Minister has recognised this fundamental truth. The Government states that it accepts the recommendations of the committee that the rate of training improvement will be strongly influenced by the rate at which additional specialist training officers are appointed to spearhead the development of training over industry and commerce generally. 
I make the point that it is remarkable to me that after something like 20 years, during which time all the other more advanced countries had come to recognise the need for retraining and the very urgent need for meeting the skilled labour requirements of modern technology, we in Australia, one or the most advanced countries in the whole world, have only now reached the point where we have come to see the need. Better late than never, I suppose. I would like to use the ordinary cliche 'too little, too late', but that would not be fair. Maybe it is too late, but one cannot say fairly that it is too little because, having regard to the teaching facilities, the amount of money earmarked for the first year of the proposal i« reasonable, and to earmark more than th; amount indicated perhaps - I use the word perhaps' because I do not have access to departmental working papers on it - would be just a waste of public money. I do not condemn the proposal as being too little too late. It is teo late but the Government has made a very worthy though belated effort to meet the very great problem that we have to face. The Government is quite right in saying that it will provide subsidies to employers as an appropriate form of incentive to arrest the relatively slower rate of apprenticeship intake. This is one of the great problems in Australia today. An important and very great gap in our industrial affairs is that employers are unable to see the advantage of training apprentices to become tradesmen for their competitors to take off them the moment the apprentices complete their training. 
Like shearers, as the honourable member for Wakefield interjects, except that - I am surprised he does not realise this - a shearer does not work for the same employer all his life. H. works for 3 or 4 weeks with one employer and then moves on to another employer. So the interjection is not as intelligent as the person who made it looks. Nevertheless, this is a subject to which we have to pay proper attention. The Government has been realistic in recognising this fact. It has been realistic enough to appreciate that,  ii  employers are to be encouraged to put on the number of apprentices that industry will need in the future, somebody has to make a move and it seems to me that the Government is the only one that can make up the loss entailed in employing apprentices over tradesmen who have been trained by somebody else. 
The country apprenticeship scheme which already operates has. I am pleased to say, been incorporated within the new scheme. It is only proper that this should be done because if we are to do what we should be doing in our country we must face the fact that the country areas need a lot more attention than hitherto governments of any political party have seen fit to give them. The Swedish Government pays a tremendous amount of attention to preventing people in the sparsely populated north of Sweden from drifting into the south. It goes to no end of trouble :o encourage industries to remain in the north because it realises that not only is it important from a decentralisation point of view as such but it is also important from the defence point of view for a country that has an extremity which is vulnerable to attack from the most likely enemy of that country. It realises that it would be mad if it did not ensure that that part of the country was occupied so that it could be defended. 
Just as the Swedes recognise that the northern part of their country is the part most vulnerable to attack from the enemy most likely to attack it. the Soviet Union, we in Australia should be thinking not only of the need to look after country areas everywhere but in particular of the need to look after the country areas in the north - that is, in Queensland and if need be in the Northern Territory and the northern parts of Western Australia. I do not think that the cost of this effort should matter to a government that has its eye on the possible defence needs of the future. It could very well treat the cost of training and the cost of assisting those industries situated in the north as part of its defence budget. I see every justification for what is being done. When the Labor Party is in government it will set up at Townsville a pilot programme which will make the best use of the facilities that Townsville offers in the form of harbours, the natural advantages it would provide for industries in that area, its connection by rail and road systems to other parts of Australia and its connection by sea with all other parts of the world. Townsville could very easily become our most important northern port for the export of goods to the now most suitably situated markets in Asia. A Labor Government will, therefore, give attention to setting up a retraining programme of this kind in the Townsville area. At the same time it will give the necessary subsidy to industries that are prepared to go into that area and work with a Labor government's defence and industrial strategy. 
A Labor government will continue the scheme that is now indicated by the Minister but with some variations. This scheme is a first start which a Labor government would have had to make in any retraining scheme which it introduced. It has some slight disadvantages which I dare say represent the Minister's way of exercising his authority over the Department of Labour and National Service and letting its officers know that they cannot make all the policies. So he ruined the scheme here and there by insisting on the normal McMahon approach to industrial matters. But that is a small price for the departmental officers to pay in order to get balance in the general kernel of the scheme adopted by the Government which has taken 23 years to move as far as it has. I do not, for instance, agree with the proposal that $50.90, tax free, should be the amount paid to those undergoing training. What is the position of a working man and his family? How can he afford to enter a scheme if he has to live on $50.90, tax free, a week? The tax free part does not mean anything to him because he would not pay tax on that amount anyway. He should be paid a higher rate than is here proposed. 
The scheme should not be limited to a subsidy for 12 months only The subsidy should be extended over a longer period because in my view it is quite possible that we will not get the number of apprentices necessary to meet the whole of our needs for tradesmen and it will become increasingly necessary to retrain tradesmen in other areas of tradesmen's activities. The Americans estimate now that a tradesman will need to be retrained 4 times during his lifetime. The Swedes, French. Italian and British have adopted the modular system of training where instead of training a man to become a tradesman capable of doing any one of 200 or 300 complicated operations, of which number he may have to do only 3 or 4, they train him to be very proficient and efficient in perhaps one or two of those operations, adding another module in each year or period when modern technology calls for the additional module of specialised training. I am pleased to note that the Minister has seen the need to give special attention to married women wishing to re-enter the work force after having passed their most fertile child bearing period so that they can come back into a work force which has changed very much from what it was 10 years earlier when they left to commence their child bearing activities. This is an important recognition on the part of the Minister. The Minister has always been noted for his interest in the ladies, and I am pleased to know that his interest goes beyond flirtation and whatever other little oddities he displays towards the fairer sex. He has now demonstrated that he is a man who is really prepared to go right to the depths of the problem. 
I am not being most offensive. The Minister looked very pleased about it and he has every reason to look pleased because he knows perfectly well that what I say is true. I am glad to notice that the Australian Council of Trade Unions has relaxed its attitude towards adult training and adult apprenticeships. I suppose the word 'apprenticeship' is offensive and almost a swear word. The ACTU has reined its altitude towards the retraining of tradesmen. This is important. A too'.maker can be retrained to become a technician, a pattern maker or some other highly skilled tradesman. Once a tool maker, who is one of the highest skilled tradesmen in the metal industry, has completed his apprenticeship training he has qualities and learnings - he may not be aware of them - which he carries with him. They make it much easier for him to adapt to the retraining needed to become a tradesman in some other area of activity. 
I notice that the Minister has asked about company mergers and reorganisation. He used the text, almost verbatim, of the Australian Labor Party's federal platform. 1 compliment him on doing so. I did not know that he had been reading it with such avidity. It is certainly to his credit that he has begun reading the platform and that the Government is slowly adopting the propositions contained therein. I believe that another fault in the scheme - not a basic fault because the scheme generally is a good one - lies in the fact that it will cover persons who have been registered for employment at any time within the preceding 12 months and who have remained unemployed for a total of at least 16 weeks. The people who are most likely to benefit from this scheme, in the sense that employers are more likely to get the best type of trained people, are those who are already working in industry but who have a desire to improve their status. I refer to the bright young men who missed the opportunity of becoming apprentices at the time when that decision had to be taken and who decided that they would like to avail themselves of the opportunity for moving further up the scale. 
I think that the Minister would have been wise to have allowed people already in employment to change employment if they wanted to or to accept the possibilities which this training scheme might give them. A lot of the people who are unemployed for the periods that the Minister speaks about have not the same adaptability for retraining which those who are still employed have. It might be that, with an expensive retraining scheme like this, better results would be gained for industry if anybody was allowed to participate in the scheme irrespective of whether he was unemployed. To the extent that those who are now employed participate and make a success of the retraining, the vacancies created in the more menial tasks they are now doing could perhaps be much more easily filled by those who are registered as unemployed than by taking those people into the training centres instead of moving them into the gaps caused by the retraining of bright, ambitious and intelligent young men who want to avail themselves of an offer which, 6 or 7 years earlier in their lives, they did not have the wisdom to accept. 
I must compliment the Government on the decision to give special assistance to Aborigines. This is a good decision which must be applauded by all people who have some interest in the Aborigines of our country* I think that more could have been done, but this is a lot more than has ever been done before. That is the important thing and we have to be fair enough to acknowledge it. A Labor Government would continue this scheme and would improve upon it. The Minister said:  1 can appreciate also that there are people with little or no experience in the field of manpower planning or manpower development who make general observations about the direction training should take. 
That was a fair enough retaliation, I suppose, for my paper which said that we had not had a Minister for Labor and National Service for more than 20 years who had a grass roots knowledge of the trade union movement. I suppose it is his way of saying: Also, we have not had a Minister for Labour like myself who has the specialised knowledge that I have of running employment services. I congratulate the Minister on his knowledge of it and on the way in which he is able to acquire that knowledge. I would like to see him apply it to the whole of the Commonwealth Employment Service, because if he could tell the Commonwealth Employment Service all that he knows about employment agencies we would have the best Commonwealth employment agency in the world. This is one thing in which he is really expert. It is not good enough to say that training and retraining are the sole responsible of industry and are not the concern of government. 
No, I know that. But I say it is not good enough to say that. The Minister is agreeing with me that it is unreal - and I agree with him - to expect one employer to meet the cost of training labour for his competitor's workshop. Yet is this not the very thing that is happening all over Australia at this moment? This is one of the happening all over Australia at this moment? This is one of the reasons we are in our present predicament. I believe that the cost of training and of relocating labour will need to be looked at. This is something which the Minister seemed not to deal with. 1 do not condemn him for that; he cannot do everything at once. But the responsibility of doing those 2 things so obviously rests on the Government that I think it is almost an absurdity that I have to even mention the fact here today. 
In Sweden the Government trains, or has the facilities for training, 100,000 employees every year. It is a country with only 8 million people, a much smaller country than ours. When the plight of an industry in any one region of that country necessitates it, the Labour Market Board, as it is called there, sends a task force of experts into the area to ascertain the special needs of the area concerned. Sometimes the need might demand government assistance for the purchase of new plant or for the retraining of the labour force to operate the plant in that region. Another situation might call for taxation concessions or for better and cheaper transport. This is an important thing in countries like Australia and Sweden where people have long distances to travel. In odd cases in Sweden the situation might call for the relocation of the industry, shifting it not from the region altogether but from one part of the region to another part of the region - to a better fiord if you like or some better place for people to live in. But whatever the need, the national Labour Market Board in Sweden is deemed to have the prime responsibility for its resolution. Enormous sums of money are devoted to the national Labour Market Board in Sweden to enable it to carry out its real task. A lot more money has to be allocated to the Department of Labour and National Service in this country if we are to do our job as we ought to do it, acting in the public interest and in the best interests of our people. 
The United Kingdom spends something $800m a year on retraining, $300m of which is obtained by a levy on all employers towards the cost of giving those employers willing to undertake retraining schemes the financial assistance that is needed. I am not recommending a levy on employers here. I dp not know what the figures would reveal if one had access to Treasury papers and to the working papers of the Department of Labour and National Service. I wish I could see all of those working papers that are pushed onto the Minister's desk from time to time and which he usually rejects as being inappropriate. I would like to see them. They ought to be indexed so that the public can have a look at them and see whether the trouble in the country is due to a Minister refusing to act upon good advice or due to a Minister taking a decision on bad advise. We ought to know more about it. 
The Minister says that I would be confused with facts. I do not know about that. Up to date the Minister cannot give any instance in which he has ever confused me with facts, because he is singularly notorious for being very shy of facts and does not like using them if he can avoid it. 
The community is investing very heavily in educating the young and in expanding elementary education, vocational schools, training colleges and secondary education. This, along with the gearing up of the whole of higher education, will give rise each year to changes in the supply of labour. The big increase in labour resources occurs in the age group from 20 to 35 years. The people in this age group have a much higher average education level than those belonging to the generation before them. There is now a generation gap in the labour market, with better education giving to those of the younger generation a decided advantage over their elders. Unemployment figures show also that the majority of long term unemployed people are older men. This is a trend which is rising each year. It is very difficult for a person in middle age, such as myself, to get a job in industry, unless an employer knows the special intellectual qualities I, for instance, possess. 
Others who are very hard hit are the handicapped people and married women, who the Minister recognises have a special problem when they want to re-enter the work force. It may be thought that a woman who was employed as a typist for 10 years and who wants to go back into industry as a stenographer ought to be able to do so quite easily and without very much re-adjustment, but even in clerical work the systems have changed and the machines have changed. Ten years ago there were not very many electric typewriters. Computers were pretty primitive 10 years ago. The layout of a letter 10 years ago was different from the layout that employers insist upon in letters today. There is now no indentation of the first word of a paragraph as there was in those days. These little things, if a woman is not aware of them and has not been trained to meet them, will make her appear to be incompetent and unsuitable for employment. 
The proportion of married women in the work force is lowest in the lowest age group for the simple reason that when married women are young they are having their children and they have to look after their babies. The greatest number of married women in the work force are between 35 and 44 years of age. Having reared their children to the point where they can be cared for by friends, neighbours or in-laws after they finish school and until the mother returns home, these women are in a position to go back into the work force. Another point that nobody seems to worry about is what has been the impact upon the children whose father and mother are both working in industry. Do we really understand the psychological impact upon children who have never known what it is to walk into the kitchen when they come home from school and say: 'Hello, mum. I am hungry. 1 want some bread and jam. Give me a biscuit. Can I have something else?' These are experiences we have all had. I often wonder whether my attitude to life would have been different from what it is if I had not had this deep affection that I could always get. I was not really conscious of the fact that I was getting something special when I walked in from school, threw my school bag on the floor and asked for a biscuit or something which only a mother can give. 
The honourable member say that we had golden syrup. We could not afford even golden syrup. If honourable members want to know, all we could afford were tins of honey, at 7s a tin. which the tobacco curers would not take because the honey was too black and too tainted with things like yakka gum. That is what we had. But it was my mother - not somebody else's - who was giving it to me. I would rather have my mother give me treacle, syrup or black honey when I came home from school than go to somebody else's home and be given a feed of roast turkey, because a mother can never be replaced. We have to understand these problems and do more than we have done to understand them. I believe that we ought to provide industrial psychology services to employers and trade unions who are concerned with production practices. Factory environment, as I said earlier, must be treated as part of a person's total environment. A good environment at work is just as important to a good workman as a good environment in the home is to a good husband or a good wife. 1 am sorry that I have to cut my speech short. I see that the Leader of the House  (Mr Chipp)  has come into the House to remind me that I promised to keep this speech down to 30 minutes. Therefore I will need to leave the rest of what 1 was to say for another time. 
To better understand the needs of job motivation and to match the experimentations that are taking place in other parts of the world, a Labor government will subsidise the cost of capital expenditure on controlled experiments designed to test production practices and new methods of producing job satisfaction. Naturally enough, employers are unwilling to embark upon experimentation of this kind because failure can be too expensive to justify the risk. The kind of experimentation I am talking about relates to the switch from assembly line production to group production methods of running a factory. The cost of the experiment, if it failed, would be astronomical. The employer or firm willing to engage in this kind of controlled experimentation should be assisted. When I say 'controlled experimentation' I mean experimentation under the control of the Department of Labour, whose officers will have the right to inspect and make suggestions as to modifications of the .scheme. Provided that were done, a Commonwealth Labor government would meet the cost of it. 
To anyone who may criticise the Minister, on the ground of cost, for bringing forward this training scheme let me say that the cost of training is only a very small fraction of the contribution it will make towards the growth of productivity. To work harder and work longer is not the best way to increase productivity; the best way to increase productivity is to make the best use of modern technology. That means finding some way of providing the skills which modern technology demands. We will concern ourselves about the increasing number of people who are unable to obtain work. As I said earlier, a large number of middle aged and older workers who still have many years of working life ahead of them are finding it increasingly difficult to compete with the younger workers if they have not received training. Many of them, particularly the older workers, have a poorer education. Some of the women are not terribly well educated. The migrants have not the education they need to compete in the mad rat race which modern technology represents. These, and especially handicapped people, are the ones who have to be given a better opportunity to have the same opportunity of choice of a job as other people are able to have. 
I believe that the community must aim to offset these developments by investing in a major expansion of adult training designed to reduce and bridge the educational gap between groups and between the various generations. Quite apart from the humanitarian requirement that unemployed human beings should be restored to productive activity, unemployment is very expensive both directly and in the form of the social expenditure. Reckoned as a capital investment to achieve a higher growth rate, the government expenditure which I propose for training will give a satisfactory yield and amortisation of capital if it only augments the rate of growth by a fifth of 1 per cent per annum. Some countries say one can justify it if one can show an increased growth rate of one-tenth of 1 per cent a year. 
I wish that I had some time to deal with the question of absenteeism, the question of excessive turnover of labour in industry, the way of reducing the incidence of absenteeism and labour turnover, because both of these factors are costing Australian industry very dearly. One should always remember, 1 think, that productivity of a modern economy rests upon something more than available raw materials, levels of technology and physical capital resources. The efficiency of output in an economy is always affected by the intelligence and willingness of its labour work force. While better industrial relations are crucial to increased productivity, the elimination of labour wastage caused by forced unemployment and by avoidable industrial accidents and disease is even more important. Last year the amount of production lost through strike action was higher than normal. It was 3 million man days for the whole year. This was nowhere near as much as it was during the same period last year, but it is still higher than it ought to be. However, rauch higher still than the amount of production lost through strikes has been the amount of production lost through avoidable industrial accidents and disease. This amounted to something like 4 million man days a year. But greater still has been the amount of production lost through unemployment. Unemployment accounts for something like 20 million man days a year. If we add absenteeism to that as well, then we realise the number of man days lost is even greater. 
I wish that I had time to deal with the Government's failure to establish a positive and progressive labour market policy with an efficient employment service geared to implement that policy. But time does not permit me to deal with that fascinating subject. However, I believe - I can say this much - that the objective must be to make the Commonwealth Employment Service the central agency for information about the whole labour market. I think it is a scandal that so many employment agencies are able to exist by charging employers and employees for services which could and should be made available without charge by the Commonwealth Employment Service. 
I shall have to skip the next 4 pages of what I wanted to say and make the following point: The mere size of a nation's work force is not significant in itself. What is important is the extent of labour force participation in relation to the population as a whole. Given ad:quale labour statistics, the labour force participation rates can be calculated to determine the proportion of the population working in different geographic areas. When labour force participation rates are available over a period of time they can provide valuable indicators for informed policy making. They can, for example, be used to locate untapped sources of labour supply. 
I am quoting from a gentleman called Clyde R. Cameron, Labor's shadow Minister for industrial relations. 
Clyde R. Cameron wrote the paper himself. As yet I do not have speech writers. I hope to have them at the beginning of the year. When I do my speeches will not improve but 1 will be able to make more of them. The prime object must be to give every person in the community the right to work. It is vital, too, that each individual should have a free choice of employment according to his interests and inclinations and to make that choice in the open market. Why not? What can be more important than making the lives of human beings - all human beings - more satisfying and therefore more enjoyable? That seems to be a good note on which to end this speech. 
Yes. Like the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  I did not have the material with me at the time. However I now have material with which to prove- 
Today. The Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  - J think he calls himself the  Deputy  Prune Minister - said that I advocated a 35-hour week across the board. I did not have the document in front of me at the time but 1 have it now. I refer to the 'Platform, Constitution and Rules' of the Australian Labor Party which states: 
Public interest, therefore, demands that the Commonwealth play a positive role in cases before the Commission concerning - 
provision for increased leisure time for employees in a manner which is appropriate to a particular industry and which will not affect the objective of ensuring that there is an increase in real wage and salary standards. 
These provisions may include - 
a 35 hour working week, 
According to the circumstances of an industry, including the history of the industry, the degree of automation and mechanisation and other relevant factors. The ultimate aim is to secure a 35 hour working week in circumstances which will ensure fair treatment of all sections of the community. 
I conclude by simply restating, as I have done before publicly, that it is not the policy of my Party to advocate an across the board 35-hour week tomorrow morning as the Minister suggested. 
Does the Minister for Labour and National Service know that, as a consequence of the amendment to the Conciliation and Abritration Act which he introduced to the Parliament in the last session, it is no longer possible for parties to a dispute to settle their differences by an award, or consent award or industrial agreement if the award or agreement contains any reference to standard hours, annual leave or long service leave, even though the reference does not constitute any change in hours, annual leave or long service leave, unless it is approved first by a hearing of the Full Bench of the Commission? Is it true also that this requirement operates even when the award or agreement makes no change in those conditions? Will this amendment mean that the national wage flow-on to every single one of the many hundreds of awards and agreements under Federal jurisdiction, as well as roping-in application, also will be subject to a hearing and approval by the Full Bench? Was it the Minister's deliberate intent that this procedure should apply when there is no alteration in hours or in leave, or was it a draftsman's error, or was it due to the Minister's failure to study or to understand properly the effect of his amendment to the Act? 
 J find it quite fascinating that the Government should have to rely on the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson)  to talk about industrial relations. It is no wonder the Minister is walking from one honourable member to the other cracking jokes. The honourable members to whom he has spoken are laughing hilariously. The Minister is almost in hysterics and so are the members of the Australian Labor Party to whom he has spoken. I wish I were free to repeat the joke I shared with the Minister a few moments ago while the honourable member for Cowper was speaking but decency demands that I keep it private, and so I will leave it at that. It is a remarkable thing that we have the honourable member coming into the Parliament always seeming bent on being a jack of all trades and a master of none. I have never known him to master any particular subject and as he fails in one subject he moves on to another with the same dismal result. Last time I heard him he was pontificating on how to run the Post Office. Today he was speaking on everything from catching fish to producing first class honey. That is what it sounded like. It may not have been honey that he was talking about but it sounded like it. He laughed all the way through his speech, indicating that he did not mean what he said, and this typifies the sort of gentleman that he is. Ever since he became a dilutee Minister be has spent most of his time walking around the corridors with books under his arm trying to look important but knowing very well that those of us who know him well realise how unimportant he is. Consequently the kind of remarks that he made today about industrial relations could in normal circumstances be brushed aside for the nonsense that they are. But it does give me the excuse for touching upon these subjects myself. 
The honourable gentleman talked for a start about  Senator Greenwood's  reference to something that the Australian Labor Party has written into its platform about taking civil action for torts. I do not think he knows much about torts. 1 would like to have a talk with him later about the subject to see how deeply knowledgeable he is on the subject of torts, because this is what we are talking about - torts for civil wrongs committed in pursuance of industrial actions for the purpose of achieving an industrial objective. It does not mean, as the Minister tries to pretend that it does or as perhaps he is foolish enough to believe that it does, that unions are free to commit all kinds of civil wrongs free from any action from the courts. It does not mean that unionists can smash property and inflict grievous bodily harm or any bodily harm on other citizens in the pursuance of industrial actions. It does not mean that; it has never meant that; and it will never mean that. 
What it means is that the old law of England of 1871 which gave the unions immunity from civil action for damages as a consequence of loss caused by strikes applies to anybody who takes strike action to achieve an industrial end. In 1902 this was altered by the Taff Vale case. In 1906 the House of Commons altered the statute to restore that privilege to trade unionists. The law remained like that until 1964, when the case of Rookes v. Barnard seemed to put the clock back to 1902. In 1965 the law was restored to the position which the House of Commons thought it was creating in 1871. 
For about 50 years the law in Queensland has provided that no action can be taken against a union, a union official or a union member who causes loss to an employer because of industrial action by either boycott or strike, and any effect of that strike action or boycott which caused somebody else not to be able to fulfil a contract is not actionable in Queensland. Although the Country Party has been in office in the unilateral system of government in Queensland ever since 1957 it has had the good sense to leave that law on the statute book. Let me tell the honourable member for Cowper that in the United States of America, the very citadel of capitalism, it is not possible to sue for damages in the same way as the Kangaroo Island squatter sued  Mr Jim  Dunford for damages for loss caused by the boycott of his wool on Kangaroo Island. The only time that an employer in the United States can sue for damages as a consequence of loss caused by strikes is when, during the currency of an agreement, a union or its members repudiate that agreement and, as a consequence of the repudiation, cause the employer to suffer loss. The employer can then sue for the full extent of the damages caused by the repudiation of an agreement. 
In Sweden much the same situation applies, except that it is in a more refined sense. If an agreement is entered into and during its currency there is a breach of that agreement or a repudiation of it involving a strike, the union can be sued, as in the United States, for damages to the extent that the employer can prove loss. But if the union can show that the executive body of the union had not been culpable in respect of the dispute, that the members of the union who stopped work did so of their own volition and in defiance of a union instruction to the contrary, all that the employer can do is take action against the individual unionists concerned. The maximum penalty is $50 for each employee who commits a breach of the agreement in defiance of his own union's executive.  In the states of West Germany. France, Italy, the United Kingdom and Canada the right to sue for damages caused by strike action or boycott is unheard of. 
The honourable member for Cowper, if I judge him right and if I understand what he is putting to the House, apparently has the temerity to say that the law of Australia should be taken back to the state of the law in England prior to 1871 and that unions ought to be liable for civil action for damage caused by breach of contract or by loss of trade brought about by boycott or strike action. I would like him to come clean and say whether that is what he means, because I can assure him that it is not the policy of the Labor Party to grant immunity to trade unionists who destroy property, inflict harm on individuals or resort to physical violence. He knows, or if he does not know he ought to have a talk to a lawyer, that that is not the policy of the Labor Party.  Senator Greenwood's  saying that it indicates either that he is unfit for the position he holds as Commonwealth Attorney-General or that he ought to take a refresher course in the law. 
I move on to the new Conciliation and Arbitration Act. I notice that the Minister for Labour and National Service, after laughing at the contribution of the honourable member for Cowper, has now left the chamber because he apparently cannot find anything to laugh about in the contribution I am making. The Minister is not much brighter than the honourable member for 
Cowper, as is evidenced by the kind of amendment he brought down to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act only this year. Let us have a look at what he did. He altered the Act in such a way as to provide that it is not possible to renew any one of the 151 industrial agreements or renew any of the 527 federal awards unless each time any one of these 670 instruments is renewed, even though it does not alter the hours, annual leave, the basic wage or the long service leave provisions,' there is a full bench sitting of the presidential members of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Aribtration Commission. Could anything be more absurd? We would need at least 100 judges employed full time. Every time there was a national wage case decision or an increase in the minimum wage it would not be possible even to extend the flow-on of the national wage increase to the other 700-odd instruments unless there was in each case a sitting of the full bench of the Arbitration Commission. During that period of activity about 500 judges would be needed, because no fewer than -3 would be sitting together each time. 
This position is so absolutely absurd that it must indicate, if any indication was needed, that the Government just does not understand anything about industrial relations or industrial law. The honourable member for Cowper has demonstrated clearly that he knows nothing about industrial law, and, as for the technicalities of law, he has made himself look an utter goat, if that is a parliamentary term that I might use in this case. The Minister ought to walk around the House laughing his head off every time the honourable member for Cowper speaks, when he himself is little better fitted to speak on industrial relations than is the honourable member, who at the moment though embarrassed remains, with a forced smile on his face, sitting in the Country Party corner. 
There is no doubt that this Government brought about or endeavoured to bring about a confrontation between the oil companies and the trade union movement in the recent oil industry dispute. There is no doubt that is what it set out to do. There is no doubt that the Minister for Labour and National Service was in constant touch with the top executives of certain oil companies, telling them not to negotiate. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  said: 'We do not want any negotiations. It is not conciliation we want. What we want is arbitration. Jam it down their throats. Make them take it. Call out the troops. This is the way to run the country'. Of course, the whole thing was preposterous, and in the end the employers realised that they were being held as hostage for the Prime Minister's own failing political fortunes. They said: 'Look, turn it up. We would like to keep you but we do not want you so badly that we are prepared to go broke trying to create the political climate necessary to get you back. So for goodness sake, lay off'. So the Government did finally lay off. The result was that the dispute was settled but not by arbitration, which the Prime Minister said was the only way it could be settled; it was settled finally by negotiation and by conciliation. It is to the eternal credit of this maligned man, Bob Hawke, that we are in a situation of peace today and that we are able to go to the nearest petrol station and fill our cars with petrol. If it were not for the good common sense of Bob Hawke and some of the other union leaders who are maligned by Country Party members every day this House is sitting we would not have petrol and a lot of other things. So much for the nonsense honourable members opposite talk about the oil strike. 
I wish I bad time to talk about the oil strike all day because I could tell some things about the machinations of Government Ministers in the oil dispute that would put your hair on end,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The Country Party members should be ashamed that they are part of the coalition that gave to the BHP-Esso group the sole rights to exploit the whole of the Bass Strait oil basin which has the richest oil bearing permeable sands in the world, ranging in depth from 280 ft to 320 ft. It has the richest and lightest oil supply in the world, so rich that the oil refineries that were built before the Bass Strait discovery have to add Arabian oil to the Bass Strait oil to reduce the quality sufficiently for it to go through the refineries. They are able to extract from a 35-gallon barrel of oil 30 gallons of refined high grade petrol. What do they pay? They pay to the Australian people who own it - we own it; i: was not put there for BHP - the miserable sum of 1 1  ic  a barrel royalty for the richest oil in the world. The sheiks of Arabia - those people wearing turbans and walking around in the desert of Arabia - have been able to force the Americans to pay as much as 70c royalty a barrel. They can then put it on the ships for Si. 40 a barrel. We have to pay BHP $2.08 a barrel. In order to make sure that BHP will be able to force the Australian motorist to pay this exorbitant price for Australian produced petrol, the Liberal-Country Party coalition Government conducted the miserable conspiracy - that is what it was-of forcing the independent oil companies that were not part of the Standard, Mobil and Shell complex to buy crude oil in strict proportion to the amount of refined petrol they import, knowing full well that those companies cannot sell the crude oil they are forced to buy and knowing that they cannot refine it in any of the refineries here. 
This morning we heard a lot about secret documents concerning Cocos Island. The Minister for Labour and National Service is now in the chamber. I would like him to stay while I talk about another secret document that relates to his Department. The Department of Labour and National Service is very good at producing figures to show that the wages share of the gross national product is rising. To do this the Department starts off from either 1954-55 or 1955-56. It produces a set of figures which apparently are fed into the Minister. The Minister has a look at them and says: T do not like going back to 1948-49 and seeing what the comparison is for the last 20 years. Give me another set of figures. Will you try starting with different years until you get to a point where it looks as though the wage earners are getting more of the GNP than they used to get? So the officers of the Department of Labour and National Service say: 'If those are your instructions,  Sir, we  will do our best.' They go back and say: 'If we go up to 1952-53 it is still bad from the Government's point of view because it shows that the workers have still received less'. 
Then they suddenly discover that, after the country had been governed by the Liberal-Country Party coalition Government for about 4 years, the situation changed and that the wages share of the gross national product fell considerably below the level of 1948-49. So, having reduced quite drastically the wages share of the GNP from what it was in 1948-49 to what it was in 1954-55, that then becomes the new norm. The new norm is no longer the percentage that operated under the last Labor Government: the new norm becomes the figure to which the Government was able to reduce the share in 1954 and in 1955. Those documents are in the hands of the Department of Labour and National Service. Moreover, they show how deceptive the Government has been and - I think I can say that the Government has been hypocritical as long as I do not say it about an individual - how hypocritical the Government is when Minister after Minister comes into this place and quotes figures to make it appear that the wages share of GNP is rising. I know from the secret information I have at my disposal that the Department of the Treasury also has those figures and that it as well as the Department of Labour and National Service is rigging the figures. But it is doing it simply because it wants to please the Liberal and Country Party members, I have another secret document from which I would love to quote but I do not have time to do so. 
I would like to deal with the question of industrial agreements but, unfortunately, time is running out. I suppose I might as well not start on that subject if I cannot finish.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I thank you for the tolerance you have shown me. I am sorry that I have only 10 seconds left and that I cannot therefore touch upon things like the 35-hour week, enforcible industrial agreements and slavery in the Cocos Islands, because I have an interesting document here. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Hallett)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
1 ask the Minister for Labour and National Service whether the September unemployment figures already are available and will be released on Monday of next week. Has he seen them? If so, can be confirm that they have increased by another 10,000? 
I would like to have more than 15 minutes in which to reply to the speech just made by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  I hope that when the time comes the Prime Minister will honour his statement that he wants a full and free debate on this matter by not having me gagged when I am just about in full flight. That is what he usually does. I want to begin by reminding the Prime Minister that there was so little interest in this subject when he rose to commence his speech that there were only 12 members of the Liberal Party present in the chamber. Then the Whip got to work and brought in the balance of the number we now see, but until a few minutes ago 4 were asleep and woke up only when I rose to my feet. So much for the interest shown in the 35- hour week on the Government side. The Prime Minister has put on quite a remarkable performance, if one can use the word remarkable' to describe his speech. 
This is the most pathetic performance of any Prime Minister in this Parliament. I would almost think that the Prime Minister wrote the speech himself, it is so poor. It is like a first grade primer, and I am sure that there is nobody who would qualify as a speech writer who would be able to perform so poorly, unless he is on this side of the House and wants to goad the Prime Minister into making the kind of speech he knows everybody will ridicule; and I will ridicule the speech that has just been made, for the good and sufficient reasons that I will show as time goes along. The Prime Minister said that the Government's programme is to secure full employment. It has had this programme presumably for 23 years. 
The Prime Minister should not interrupt me; he knows that is rude. The result is that every month for the past 2 years almost, with the exception of 2 months, the number of unemployed has been steadily rising. It has already reached the figure of 112,000 and my information, right from inside the Department of Labour and National Service itself, is that on Monday we will be told that there are at least an additional 10,000 unemployed. The figure is more than 10,000, but I will leave it at that so that it will not be possible to trace the source of my information. This situation is serious. The Prime Minister talks about industrial instability. What a wonderful record of industrial stability this Government has! Last year the Prime Minister and his Ministers announced that we had our worst year of industrial instability for 25 years with 3 million man days lost. So much for industrial stability and so much for full employment under this Government's regime. 
The Prime Minister said that this Government is opposed to any extension of the 35-hour week at this stage of Australia's development either on an industry by industry basis or as a maximum working week to replace the standard 40-hour week of the past 2 decades for the whole of the work force. Nobody has ever proposed that there should be an across the board 35-hour week introduced in this country. The Labor Party has never said it; the Australian Council of Trade Unions has never said it. The ACTU has said that this year it proposes to try to secure a 35- hour week for the oil industry and also for the power industry and then later announced that it would -postpone for another 9 months its application for the 35-hour week in the oil industry. So there is only one industry out of all those which no doubt can afford it that has been chosen so far this year for the introduction of a 35-hour week. The Prime Minister is too cunning and crafty to say that he is opposed to the introduction of a 35-hour week ever. He keeps saying that we are not ready at this stage for it. Of course, people like those in the Government said that when the 48-hour week came in. 'We do not mind the 48-hour week', said the political grandfather of the Prime Minister, but not at this time'. Then his father said: *We do not mind the 44-hour week but not now'. Then the Prime Minister as a young fledgling coming up through the university was making speeches against the 40-hour week. 'Not now', he said. He is shaking his head now, but of course, his son will shake his head when somebody reminds him in 20 years time that his father, away back in 1972, said that we were not ready for the 35-hour week then. It is never the time, according to people on the other side of the House who represent big business. 
The Prime Minister said that this Government has always demonstrated its opposition by its intervention in wage cases. Yes; it has demonstrated its opposition but it has demonstrated also how out of date it is, because each of the two times it intervened in a court case to oppose the 35- hour week the Arbitration Commission has said that the Government was bonkers and that the 35-hour week was something that should apply in the mining industry, the stevedoring industry and the containerisation industry. But in spite of the fact that stevedoring output had more than doubled in 10 years this Prime Minister had the cheek to send somebody into the Arbitration Commission to say: 'We do not care, whether the output per man-hour has gone up 100 per cent in 10 years, we are still opposed to the 35-hour week'. The Government said the same thing to the coal miners, who increased their output by more than 100 per cent in 20 years, when they applied for the 35-hour week. It seems to be a logical conclusion that more productivity demands greater leisure, but this Prime Minister applauded the previous Prime Minister for sending the most expensive counsel that money could buy to oppose their application in the Arbitration Commission. 
This Government, the Prime Minister has said, has already demonstrated its opposition by its intervention in wage cases. Of course it has. It always opposes increases in wages but never does anything to oppose increases in profits. Oh no, increases in wages are opposed, as is any reduction in the standard hours, but never does the Government do anything for the great bulk of the 4.5 million wage and salary earners who are relying on their labour for their bread and butter. This Government cannot guarantee that there will not be a 35-hour week, any more than a Labor government could guarantee that there will be a 35-hour week, because it is beyond the power of government by statute to fix the standard hours of industry through the Commonwealth Parliament, and the Prime Minister knows that perfectly well. The final decision will rest always with the Arbitration Commission and not with the government of the day. All the government of the day can do is either reveal the facts, as a Labor government would do, or conceal the facts, as this Government has done for the last 23 years. 
The Prime Minister said that he had decided to bring this matter forward so that the people of Australia will be alert to what is happening. They are alert to what is happening, my dear Prime Minister, without you raising this matter in the Parliament this afternoon. There are 113,000 of them out of work and another 10,000 have joined their ranks. By February next year there will be more than 200,000 out of work. Nearly one million people are trying to eke out a living on $51.10 a week, which is the national minimum wage this Government told the Arbitration Commission it had no right to award. It does not need this pathetic attempt, through this miserable little speech in large typing that the Prime Minister has read out, to alert the people of Australia to what is wrong and what Ls happening. They know all too well what is happening, and while the Prime Minister is on his knees praying to win the next election the people of Australia are praying that the Arbitration Commission will wake up to the fact that they cannot live on $51.10 a week. 
The Prime Minister in his speech went on to say: 
At the outset J want to state that the Government is not opposed to the concept of more real leisure for the Australian working man. 
Let me put this proposition to him: A 35- hour week worked over 48 weeks represents a total of 1,680 working hours a year. This could be worked at either 35 hours a week for 48 weeks or 40 hours a week for 42 weeks at ordinary rates with 6 weeks additional leave at the end of the year making a total of 10 weeks leave. There would be no difference at all in the costs of these 2 proposals but the latter would certainly give more leisure. Now let me tell the Prime Minister something about people who work overtime. The only reason people work overtime or take a second job is that they cannot afford to live on one job. While we have a government like this in office, which tells the Arbitration Commission that it should not award even $51.10 a week for a man, wife and children to live on, these people will always need a second job to get sufficient money to live on. Then the Prime Minister said that he applauded the concepts both of increased real wages and decreased standard hours. But what has be done? If he applauds them he has not given any indication of it in this Parliament He has never uttered one word of protest against the very low level of national wages that we have at the present time. He has closed his eyes to the fact that during the 23 years that this Government has been in office the share of the gross national product which goes to wages has fallen since 1948-49 rather than increased in spite of the fact that the size of the workforce has increased by nearly 2 per cent. 
The Prime Minister talked about crippling costs, runaway inflation and instability. These are 3 things for which this Government is solely responsible, it being the Government in power for the last 23 years with control of both Houses. The Government is responsible for these 3 things and it cannot even blame the 35-hour week for them because we do not have it yet. We have something which is infinitely worse - a Prime Minister who does not even understand what it is all about The Prime Minister said that this is not the time for the 35-hour week, the inference being that he is not against it but that Australia is not quite ready yet. That is what the Government said, I repeat, when the 48-hour week, the 44-hour week and the 40-hour week were introduced. Now, members of the Government parties again say: 'Not at this stage'. Of course, nobody is proposing that there should be a 35-hour week for all industry at this stage. I now read from the official platform of the Labor Party's policy. From 1965 until 1971 the Labor Party's platform said: 
A working week to consist of not more than 5 consecutive days, with a maximum of 35 hours and with a progressive reduction to 30 hours. 
At the Launceston Conference the Labor Party deliberately struck that plank of the platform out of the rule book and incorporated the present plank, part of which I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard because of the shortage of time. 
 Mr Speaker,  I rise to oppose the- 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
 I wish to protest against the manner in which this country of ours is being governed at present. It is high time that we had in power a government that has decent respect for human rights, human dignity, the liberty of the subject and the rights of man. We have not seen that in evidence here. We are living today in a country which has both Houses of its Parliament in session but not a single Minister who is in a position to do so is showing the slightest concern that at this very moment in a New South Wales gaol is a young woman of 22 years of age. She has been incarcerated against her will by an act of violence the equal of which surely this country has not witnessed since Federation. I refer to nursing aide Barbara Joyce Russell of Narrabundah who is in gaol at this minute, put there by a person who had no legal authority to do so. She was sentenced to imprisonment by a person who had no more legal right to order her to pay a fine of $40 or else go to gaol than has the ambassador of the Aboriginal embassy. 
It is a scandal and disgrace that the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  can sit opposite me in this chamber as though nothing untoward is happening, as though everything is normal. This afternoon I pleaded with the Minister to let this young woman out of gaol.  His  interest was dismissed completely by saying: 'It has nothing to do with me. Go and see the AttorneyGeneral.' Fancy going to see the AttorneyGeneral. What faith can anybody have in this Attorney-General, a man who we all know broke the law of the land himself when he filled in a false declaration about  his  expenses in the election. 
Fancy going to Ivor Greenwood, whoever he happens to be, and asking him to take action. 
Fancy going to this Attorney-General and asking him to do justice in a case of this kind. The Minister did not even have the decency to say to me: 'Look, it is not my Department, but this young woman is somebody's daughter. I will go and see the Minister myself. 
The Minister laughs and says that it would be funny if she was not somebody's daughter. This is the cavalier, miserable, mean and cruel attitude that the Government takes towards these cases where human compassion is the sort of thing we should be looking for. 
My Leader informs me now that the Attorney-General has already informed the honourable member for Prospect that he will not give justice to this young girl, who has been put into gaol by a man who had absolutely no legal right to put her into gaol, unless she goes to some barrister or engages counsel to make an application for her and pays for it out of her own pocket. Presumably if she took the action the Attorney-General would send senior counsel, the best counsel that money could buy, to appear. 
Not his money, no. The Commonwealth's money, the taxpayer's money, this young girl's money and the money of her mother and father would be used by the AttorneyGeneral to put  a  counsel into 'the court either to ask for an adjournment or to put forward some cases indicating why that young girl should be kept there.  I  am not talking about a common criminal now.  I  am talking- 
'Sit down, you miserable cur. 
I apologise and withdraw. 
This is pretty rough. At least 5 minutes of my time has been taken up discussing a point of order that the Minister now admits was not a valid point of order. I will ask for an extension of time when my time expires. I return to the matter about which I was speaking. That young girl is in gaol at this minute. She will spend tonight away from her friends, her relatives, her dear ones and her loved ones. She will be spending a lonely night in gaol. That supercilious person on the other side of the table is interjecting again. He could not care less that there is in gaol tonight a person who was sent there by a man who had absolutely no legal right to put her in gaol. Yet there is a smug grin on the face of those few members opposite who are in the chamber. What sort of people are they? What sort of Government have we when the members behind the Government which has been responsible for this miserable treatment of this young 22-year old girl can sit back as though it is a great event, as though they  could not  care less. No wonder people are not being treated decently in this country when this sort of attitude is displayed by them. Where on earth could this young 22- year old girl, who is an unemployed nursing aid, get the money to brief counsel to make the application that the Minister says that she ought to make? We know where the Minister will get the money for his counsel. It will not be out of his own pocket. Yet he could find the money so much more easily than this young girl could. Here a Minister on $27,000 a year with $36 a day in allowances, with cars and staff and all the perks you can think of, has the hide to tell a poor, unemployed nursing aid to engage counsel. She is not even a communist, mark you, not a criminal. She is a girl who has done no harm to anybody. She decided to go to gaol rather than pay the fine that was illegally imposed upon her. She said: 'I think the National Service Act is an immoral and unjust law. I will not comply with it in any regard because it is my Christian duty. She is a Christian. Let not the Minister for Immigration laugh that off because she is a practising Christian and a good cleanliving decent girl whom people had no right to grab by the scruff of the neck like a common criminal and shanghai to New South Wales to be incarcerated in a prison. Again there is that supercilious look on the face of the Minister for Immigration. He could not care less. He has sons and daughters. This girl is the daughter of somebody, let us not forget. Cannot the Minister wipe that smug grin off his face at all? Is it so funny that an innocent person is in gaol at this moment? 
I want to say that it is very doubtful whether the national service regulations are operative. Even that is open to doubt. We have heard a lot about the rule of law. We have heard a lot about the common law. But if we are going to talk about the rule of law for goodness sake let us make the rule of law something that we can respect. How can we respect this thing called 'the rule of law' when this Government allows people like this to be grabbed out of their homes and taken to gaol on the say so of a man who has no more legal right to make the decision than this book which I hold in my hand. Everybody knows this. That is the position. It is as simple as that and it is because it is so simple, perhaps, that the simple minded people opposite are not able to see how simple it is. But, worse than being simple., we are talking about a person's freedom. Honourable members opposite talk about the liberty of the subject. They talk about people bashing people up at union meetings. They talk about the destruction of property. 
What could be a greater act of violence than the violence that it reflected in the decision that was made yesterday to arrest this young woman, take her against her will outside the Territory in which she resided into another State, throw her into a prison and keep her there? Somebody without authority - with no more authority than this book - told her that she has to go to gaol and will be kept there tonight. If this Government could act as quickly as it did in reframing the Ordinance necessary to throw the Aboriginals out of the embassy this morning it would not have any trouble in arranging for this young lady to be let out of gaol in time to have her evening meal in decent surroundings as a self-respecting citizen, lt will stand to the eternal shame of every person who is personally responsible for this outrage if they allow her to stay in gaol tonight. 
I will say this for the Minister for the Interior: Although he is primarily responsible for what happened at the embassy last night the Minister is clearly disturbed and distressed over the case of this young girl. I do not blame the Minister for the Interior at all in this connection. It is obvious that he is distressed, but the Minister for Immigration is not distressed. The honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  is laughing about this, lt is obvious that the Attorney-General has not the slightest compassion, nor has he shown the least bit of distress at what is happening tonight to this innocent young woman. 1 now learn from the Leader of the Opposition that he has confirmed that the national service regulations are themselves inoperative. Is the Government going to allow this young woman who is in gaol because she handed out leaflets advising people not to observe an inoperative law - this person who was put into gaol by a person who had no right to impose a penalty on her - to spend tonight in prison? It will be a disgrace and a national scandal if this young woman is allowed to stay in prison tonight, lt is high time that the Government took stock of itself. The Government ought to realise that this is not a dictatorship: this is not a police State; we are not living under a government of Hitlerite Germany; we are not living in the Soviet Union; we are not living in Portugal or Fa.sc.isl Spain. We are living in what passes for a parliamentary democracy yet you behave like a bunch of ratbags who have not the slightest respect for law. 
I withdraw the imputation. 
I withdraw the statement. You are quite right,  Mr Speaker,  1 had no right to make it and I withdraw it. But the situation is an absolute scandal when we have in this Parliament people who seem not to care. Good God, what sort of a setup are we living under? Just where do the rights of man end or begin, if this is the way you are going to treat this young woman? I say to the Government: If it can act as quickly as it acted last night to correct the defect in the law which made it an offence to have an embassy on the lawns opposite, to get the printing presses going after midnight and to get police storming the countryside in the early hours of the morning, then why in the name of God can it not act with the same alacrity to ensure that this young woman is not kept in gaol tonight against her will? lt is a scandal. 
She is not legally kept there against her will. 
Yes, I have been misrepresented. The Treasurer has again misrepresented me on the same subject on which he has misrepresented me before when he said that the honourable member for Hindmarsh early last year advocated an incomes policy and was rejected by the Federal Executive which took the wise course of taking no action at all. I do not know how many times I have to correct these misrepresentations but I will make the correction every time I am misrepresented. I hope that as a consequence of this explanation and of reading direct from the minutes of the Federal Executive what I say might penetrate the skulls of the Prime Minister and the Treasurer, because they are the ones who continue to misrepresent the position. The Federal Conference met on 13th December 1971 at Townsville after the Parliamentary Labor Party had dealt with this matter. A motion was moved by  Mr Tack  Egerton and seconded by me immediately the session of 15th December began at 9.30 a.m. That motion moved by  Mr Egerton  and seconded by me read as follows: 
That this Executive condemns the Federal Government's proposals to amend the Arbitration Act to the detriment of Australian workers and brands the proposals as a deliberate political stunt to provoke industrial disputes and so provide the Liberal and Country Parties with the kind of political climate that might deflect public concern from the vital issues of unemployment, rising prices, high interest charges and inadequate social services. We declare our total opposition to the retention of strike penalties in the Act and affirm that a Labour government will remove these provisions from the Act. We are convinced that penal sanctions create rather than settle disputes and we commend the ACTU in setting up a special committee to consider the question of strike penalties and the observance of freely negotiated voluntary agreements. We assure the ACTU that a Federal Labour government will work in the closest co-operation with them in the reconstruction of the arbitration system. 

 Mr Bill Hartley then moved an amendment which was seconded by  Mr F.  E. Chamberlain. The relevant part of it reads: 
Consistent with the provisions of the Federal platform on industrial relations and the decisions of the recent ACTU Congress and the Interstate Executive of the Australian Council of Trade Unions of 18th November 1971, the Federal Executive determines that ALP policy supports the following principles-- 
This is  Mr Hartley's  amendment - 
Labor policy does not authorise any present or future Labor government, Federal or State, to legislate for penal sanctions or to legislate to provide any form of statutory cover for sanctions in industrial agreements. 
How can I make my personal explanation without reading the resolution? 
I am coming to the relevant part. 
Exactly. I will confine myself to the statement that the Federal Executive repudiated my position. The amendment continues: 
Consistent with the attitudes of the ACTU, Labor policy disapproves strongly the insertion of sanction clauses in voluntary industrial agreements. 
That amendment was put to the Federal Executive and was defeated because only 2 people besides the mover and seconder supported it. The motion which I seconded was then put and carried. A move to secure a presidential ruling that the decision of the Federal Executive which was carried as a consequence of my seconding  Mr Egerton's  motion did not constitute a rebuff to Caucus was rejected by the Federal  President  of the Party. I will conclude on this note: There is no excuse for the Treasurer misrepresenting the situation, misquoting me and misquoting what the Federal Executive did, because the decision of the Federal Executive was made known to the Press at the time it was taken. The full text of the resolution moved by  Mr Egerton  and seconded by me was given to the Press by  Mr Young  and was published. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labour and National Service who has just returned to the chamber. Would the Minister tell me whether there have been any alterations in the procedures for the issue and lodgement of claims for unemployment benefit since November of last year? If so, will he tell me how many and will he explain the nature of them? 
I begin by thanking the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  for supplying me last night with a copy of the speech he has just made. This is a welcome improvement on the normal practice which other Ministers follow of giving their opposite number as little notice as possible of what they intend to do. I thank him for that. I am pleased also that he has adopted one small portion of the recommendations contained in my paper to the Industrial Relations Society of South Australia on 7th August this year which pointed out that this sort of thing ought to be adopted. I am pleased for this small mercy. I only wish he had seen fit to adopt all of the other recommendations that I made in that paper. 
It was 7th August. I sent the Minister a copy. 
Yes. We can only assume that the decision of the Minister has been made since 7th August. If the decision was made before then why have we had to wait until this late stage to hear about it? Why did the people who would have been entitled to the benefit have to wait all these weeks without getting the benefit that is now proposed? That is the thing; you work too slowly. The Minister said that under the scheme certain categories will get benefits. He said that these will be the people who have reached the stage of eligibility for unemployment benefit. But the big secret is this: At what stage does a person reach eligibility for unemployment benefit? We know that a man whose wife works and earns more than $31 a week will not be eligible for unemployment benefit. Presumably he will not be entitled to get his fare from Adelaide to Mount Gambier and back. This is the first defect in the proposal. 
Another defect is: How does one find out the criteria by which the Department of Social Services determines whether a person is eligible for unemployment benefit? This morning I telephoned the Department of Social Services in Canberra and explained that I was a transport driver temporarily out of work. I said that I had an opportunity to get a job as a labourer earning $51.10 a week at Yass. I asked whether I would have to take the job or could I stay in Canberra on unemployment benefit. When the person to whom I was talking asked for my name, I told him. He said: 'Well, I think you had better ring  Mr Hamilton,  the head of the Department.' I rang  Mr Hamilton  and  Mr Hamilton  said: I will have to speak to the Minister to find out whether I can give you the internal memoranda, manuals and circulars which we circulate among our departmental officers for determining these things.' Therefore, unless an unemployed person was close enough to  Mr Hamilton,  the permanent head of the Department of Social Services, or was a personal friend of the Minister, presumably, he would never know whether he was eligible for unemployment benefit and consequently he would never know whether he was entitled to the fare. So much for the looseness of the verbiage used by the Minister for Labour and National Service in his statement. 
The Minister's statement is almost reminiscent of the Bill that was introduced into this place earlier in the year to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. It is a hotch-potch of loosely put together words; it is an odd assortment of ideas which, when analysed are very difficult to understand. There has been a considerable change in some of the criteria that is being used for registering the unemployed with the Department of Labour and National Service. During question time today I asked the Minister: 
Will the Minister tell me whether there has been any alteration in the procedures for the issue and lodgment of claims for unemployment benefit sine/ November of last year? If so, will he tell me how many and will he explain the nature of them? 
The Minister said that he did not know of any. He said that if there were any they were certainly not of a very major nature, the inference being that there were none at all. 
I have in my hand a rather important looking document that is headed: 'Minute' and 'Circular N72/1' and 'D.E.O. File 2/8/'. That document refers to another document dated 4th January 1972 which is a circular signed by a P. H. Cook. The circular makes 2 major alterations to the procedures that were to be followed. The circular states: 
D.E.O. staff shall not issue forms SU2 at the time of registration; This is a new procedure. 
The circular went on to state: . 
. its issue should be deferred until such time as they are .reasonably satisfied that suitable action has been taken, both by the applicant and the D.E.O. to obtain employment. 
That,  Sir, represents  quite a substantial revision of some of the operative procedures for the issue and lodgment of claims for unemployment benefit which previously applied. Underlined in paragraph 5 are these words: 
. Forms SU2 are not to be accepted for lodgment in D.E.O.s before the seventh day after registration for employment, with the date of registration being accepted as the effective date of lodgment.' 
The Minister apparently is seeking advice on this but we know very well that- this represents a change. It came at a time of- the year when the raw figures of unemployment had reached astronomical heights and when even the seasonally adjusted figures were causing the Government some considerable concern, but not so much as they would if the Government were still office next January or February. The Minister was desperately attempting to find some way of smothering up the real picture of the unemployment situation. I think that this document, . which I claim represents pretty valid, reasonable and responsible evidence of what has happened, ought to be taken into account. The document goes further. It states: 
We are currently having discussions .with the Department of Social Services (Rehabilitation Branch) regarding procedures associated with this form and I will be writing to you again on this matter in the near future. 
The document then states: 
I propose to recommend to Central Office that certain amendments be made to these revised procedures and I would therefore like to have by the end of February, by which time staff will have gained experience in dealing with these new arrangements, any suggestions District Officers have to offer towards improving the procedures. 
I would like to know what happened about that. I would like to know what procedures were changed, what did the District Officers say, was this acted upon and what effect did the action of the District Officers have upon the sum total of people who were unemployed? What the Minister seems to be overlooking altogether is that the big problem is not getting people to the employers. What we have to do is to have a more efficient Commonwealth Employment Office. What is wrong with having a job bank? What is wrong with having a computer system under which every new job that comes on to the market is fed immediately into the job bank computer so that anyone who wants to go to the Commonwealth Employment Office can see for himself what jobs are available and where they are situated. 
The Minister says that a number are being looked at. This is a recommendation 1 made in a paper on 7th August and I am pleased to know that the Minister is looking at it. I received a letter only this morning from a 13-year-old high school boy who signs himself John Rau. In his letter he said: 
Have a look at this wonderful piece of Liberal propaganda. It is promoting (suppozedly) - 
Supposedly' was spelt with a 'z' -  a very quiet and carefull, seldom heard of polotician, a Mister John MacCleay. Hope you get a laughe out of the cutting. 
I looked at the cutting and certainly did get a laugh out of it. On it is a picture of the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr John McLeay)  and  Senator Bonner  who is described as 'Australia's only Aboriginal M.P.' The article states: 
Let me point out something which is very sad but which is a very typical case. It was referred to me by the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  who has always been a man with a great humanitarian streak in his makeup and who is as saddened asI am to hear of examples such as this. A Rockhampton man was given a rail pass by the Department of Labour and National Service to travel some 200 miles to take a job at Springsure. He, a man with a wife and 2 children had to se" the family refrigerator to a neighbour for less than S30 so that they could pay a week's board in advance at Springsure. The honourable member for Capricornia said that advances for board should be made in such cases. But this man had received no benefit payment at that stage, What is the use of sending a man, his wife and 2 children to a place 200 miles away with just a train ticket?  His  wife and2 children cannot sit down and nibble at the rail ticket all day long for a fortnight waiting for the first pay to come in. Has the Minister ever thought of this? Of course he has not. The Minister has been pretty well heeled all his life and does not understand. 
I know it is not right, and it amazesme more than ever that one who has not been well heeled all his life should not understand the situation. I wanted the Minister to say that because I was never sure. I heard that he had had a rough time, but he looked as though he disapproved of what I said. Now that I know it is true it makes me wonder all the more. It satisfies me that he is not the real culprit. The culprit is the McMahon Cabinet which overrides him all the time. Every time he wants to do something decent the Cabinet overrides him and the Prime Minister says: There is good mileage in not doing it. So never mind about the bloke and his wife who has to suffer.' I conclude on that note. I can see that you also agree with what I say,  Mr Speaker.  I hope that when the Minister looks at the situation he will do a little more than just provide a tram ticket or something for starving people to live on for a fortnight while they wait to get their first pay packet, even if they do get a sensible or decent and acceptable job. 
Motion (by  Mr Fox)  proposed): 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
Yes, I am prepared to table the document, and I now do so. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 I rise to expose the duplicity of the Government's method of quoting the unemployment figures. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has told us in advance that on Monday next we can expect a very large drop of almost 6,000, or perhaps slightly more, in the raw figures and that the movement in the seasonally adjusted figures will be less than that. That means that the seasonally adjusted (figures are going to stand at 114,000 because in August- 
Well, an official of the Department of Labour and National Service is quoted as having said it, which is usually the Minister of Labour and National Service leaking this information to the Press and saying: 'Do not quote me. Say it came from an official of the Department'. 
The Minister says that what he said to the Press was a lie. We will see what happens. »n August 120,000 people were out of work, according to the seasonally adjusted figures, which was the highest number we have ever had in August since the seasonally adjusted data was first introduced. One would have to go back to the depression period of 40 years ago to find a figure as high as that. So there would need to be a very substantial reduction in the seasonally adjusted figures. 
It is very interesting to note how the Government changes or oscillates from using the seasonally adjusted figures to using the raw figures whenever this suits. In February of this year the Minister for Labour and National Service was quoted in the Adelaide 'Advertiser' as having said that there had been no major increase in the jobless during January. He could arrive at that conclusion only by quoting the seasonally adjusted figures because the raw figures which the Government now quotes showed that at the time that the Minister said that there had been no major increase in unemployment 130,000 people were out of work. This represented an increase of no less than 9,700 on the previous month's figures. The Minister was quoted in March as being confident of a drop in the jobless. But by then he had decided to quote the raw figures. He said that there were 115,000 jobless people in February compared with 130,000 previously. Only then did we hear about the raw figure of 130,000. It was brought in at that stage only in order to establish his case or his assertion that there had been a drop of 15,000. Of course on the seasonally adjusted figures, which he had used in the previous month, there was an increase of 7,200 and not the drop of 15,000 that he was able to produce by oscillating from the seasonally adjusted figures back to the raw figures. Since the Minister is laughing about what I am saying and I have  111111  in a good mood, perhaps he will agree to my incorporating in Hansard 2 tables showing the exact figures as produced for me by the Statistical Service of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library. I seek leave to incorporate those tables in Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  (The documents read as follows) - 

<graphic href="081131197210114_59_3.jpg"></graphic>

[footnote continued on bottom of next page. 

<graphic href="081131197210114_60_4.jpg"></graphic>

Included in the papers that are incorporated is another interesting thing. It shows that the Department of Labour and National Service is cooking the figures. I suggest that it is cooking the figures with the knowledge of the Minister. 
I will not withdraw it because I will prove that the figures are being cooked. I have already tabled in a previous debate a document to show that the Department gave instructions as to how the figures should r&gt;e cooked. Let me prove, by using an official document which 1 have now incorporated in Hansard, how badly the figures  have  been cooked. The Department of Labour and National Service issues its own figures on registrations and its own seasonally adjusted figures. When 1 was at the Canberra Club one night - apparently I was not recognised - there was behind me an officer, who could have been employed 
Published each quarter only - February, May, August, November. 
The Commonwealth Non-metropolitan Unemployment Relief Scheme commenced in December, 1971. 
Not yet available. 
<para pgwide="yes">Compiled at request by the Legislative Research Service from information contained in (a) issues of 77ie  Labour Force,  (CBCS) and (b) issues of  Monthly Review of Employment Situation  (Department of Labour and National Service). by any department at all, but who was chortling about how the Government was tricking the Opposition by putting in figures which were different and contrary to the figures of the Bureau of Census and Statistics. I put a question on the notice paper to find out whether it was a fact that the Department of Labour and National Service's figures were different from those of the official statistician, the Bureau of Census and Statistics. The answer was that they were; and they are. Let us examine the official figures issued by the Commonwealth Statistician for the month of May this year - they are the latest I have - on the 1 per cent survey that the Bureau makes. The Department of Labour and National Service said that there were 96,000 people out of work in that month. The survey conducted by the Bureau of Census and Statistics showed that there were 110,000 people out of work in the same month. It will be interesting to see what they show for August. But it is no accident that this occurs. 
If one were to go through the figures right back to 1964 one would find that there has been a vast disparity between the official figures provided by the Bureau of Census and Statistics and the figures provided by the Department of Labour and National Service. The Department of Labour and National Service does not give the full picture. The true position can be perhaps best obtained by looking at the 1966 census. The difference between the unemployment figure quoted by the Department of Labour and National Service for the month of June that year and the figure of those who in fact described themselves in the census as being out of work represented a variation of 31 per cent. In effect, a total of 31 per cent more people out of work was disclosed by the census taken in that year than by the figures of the Minister's own Department. I would like to know why we do not have the real unemployment figure for the month of June 1971, which is when the last census was taken. Is it because this would show a vast discrepancy between the real number of unemployed and those that were reported to be unemployed by the Minister in the month of June 1971? lt is 
IS months since the last census was taken. Why do we not have the figures now? Why have we had to wait so long for them? 
Let us have a look at what has been said as to whether the seasonally adjusted figures or the raw figures that the Minister now momentarily relies upon should be quoted. The Prime Minister said in a 'This Day Tonight' interview this year and at a Premiers Conference that we must look at the seasonally adjusted figures. According to a Press report of a television interview on the programme 'This Day Tonight' on 14th February this year the Prime Minister said:   . . the original unadjusted figures had an emotive quality, created the greatest public interest, and could be used for political purposes. 
But if you want to look at it for economic and national purposes the figures that you should look at are the seasonally adjusted figures. 
Of course, in the same month we had no lesser an authority for the same kind of statement than  Mr Lynch  himself. When we have the Minister agreeing with the Prime Minister and saying quite openly that the figures one has to look at are the seasonally adjusted figures and not the raw figures, why on earth is the Government now quoting the raw figures. Of course there is going to be increased unemployment. We need an expansion rate of 4 per cent in the work force, but we have one of only 1 per cent. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  has said that we cannot confidently expect any more than  a  2 per cent rate. So the unemployment situation is going to get steadily worse. There is no doubt at all but that by February we will have an unemployment pool of no less than 200,000 people. It is no use the Minister looking at percentages. We are not talking about percentages; we are talking about persons. It is no use calling an unemployed person a percentage and saying that you do not, therefore, have to worry about him. It does not matter where the percentages of unemployment are. The fact is that 86,000 people are out of work in Victoria, New South Wales and Queensland and 30,000-odd are out of work in the 3 Labor States put together. They are all human beings and it does not matter where they live. It does not matter what their percentage is. They are people, wherever they are. They are entitled to  a  job. A government that deliberately adopts an economic policy that makes it impossible for people to get work ought to be thrown out of work itself. 
 I am sorry to have to rise to speak on the motion for the adjournment; it must be many years since I have done this. I rise because something very shady is going on inside the Department of Labour and National Service and I think that it is spilling over into the Department of the Treasury. I say it is shady because information is being withheld from the people of Australia and from the Parliament.  Mr John  Tilling, who works for the Department of Labour and National Service has written a thesis for his degree of Master of Economics on the question of the distribution of the gross national product as between wages and profits. I know that the thesis has been seen by senior officers of the Department of Labour and National Service. I am informed, and verily believe, that it has been seen by the Department of the Treasury. In spite of this, the Department of the Treasury continues to give information which suggests that the share of the gross national product which goes to wages is increasing, whereas this thesis, which contains reasoning that cannot be contradicted, shows that it has been falling. 
I myself asked the Department of the Treasury for information about these figures and I was told that the share going to labour has risen. The honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  incorporated in Hansard a document prepared apparently by the Treasury to show the same sort of thing, when at the same time the Treasury had in its possession incontrovertible argument showing that the reverse was true. Worse than that, to compound the felony, when I caused inquiries to be made from the Department of Labour and National Service and from  Mr John  Tilling direct in order to have a copy of the thesis made available to me, he said that he was prepared to do it, but later he rang back to say that he had been directed by a senior officer or by his immediate senior officer in the Department of Labour and National Service not to make it available - to withhold it from the Parliament and from the elected representatives of the people. 
We are entitled to know what is in that thesis, just as we are entitled to know what is in the report of the inter-departmental committee on the question of child care centres. This Parliament has no right to be called upon to debate a Bill for an Act to deal with child care centres and at the same time have withheld from it vital, crucial information prepared by a special committee which would tell us whether the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  has introduced a Bill that coincides with the facts and whether the Bill introduced by the Minister is a Bill that should have been introduced, having regard to the findings of the inter-departmental committee. 

 Mr Tilling discusses both the conceptual and practical problems encountered when attempting to measure relative shares, with special reference to the Australian national accounts. From this basis,  Mr Tilling  works through a wide range of possible methods. 
Despite the different methods of analysis that he has adopted in the study, the results produced are generally consistent and statistically significant. Rather than stick to one base year,  Mr Tilling  has analysed the data using an unweighted series of data on wages and salaries and national product, a weighted series with 1948-49 as the base year, and a weighted series with 1958-59 as the base year. The choice of different bases to the statistical series does not affect the nature of the results of the study. An inherent problem encountered when investigating the long-run distribution of relative shares in a market economy is the changing structure of the economy in the long term. To overcome this problem of aggregation,  Mr Tilling  adopts a technique developed by Phelps-Brown, the effect of which compensates for the changing structure of the economy. In total  Mr Tilling  adopts 6 different approaches to the data: Adjusted unweighted, adjusted weighted for 1948-49, adjusted weighted for 1958-59, unadjusted unweighted, adjusted weighted for 1948-49 and unadjusted weighted for 1958-59. 
As to the use of national accounts, it can be said that there is considerable difference of opinion as to how national accounting data should be used in a study of this kind. Again  Mr Tilling  covers the field by adopting 4 different uses of national accounts. The first is gross national product, all industries and sectors. The second is gross national product at factor cost, less agriculture, mining and quarrying. The third is gross national product less the second and less goods and services produced by government authorities - as distinct from public enterprises such as government railways^ - and ownership of private dwellings. The fourth use is national product less the second and third and, in addition, electricity generation, public utilities generally, and the transport sector as a whole, both government and private. 
As outlined previously, there are 6 different statistical bases used for the study varying according to the base year used and the adjustment of the series for changing structural composition of the Australian economy. Within these series, the economy on which the calculations are based is presented in various stages of disaggregation, from the total economy - the interdependence approach - to the economic base which represents 63 per cent of the employed work force. Thus there are 24 least square regression equations which indicate the trend in labour's share in post-war Australia. 
In 21 out of 24 regression equations,  Mr Tilling  found that the share of national product going to labour had declined in the 20 years from 1948-49 to 1969-70. These findings are statistically significant at the 95 per cent level. That is, the investigator can be 95 per cent sure that the equation he has calculated is a true indication of the movement in the series and is not the product of chance. The 3 cases that indicated a' positive trend in the wage share were equations using an interdependent base as outlined previously, that is gross national product, all industry and sectors. It was this type of model that the Commonwealth used in the 1971-72 national wage case to argue that the distribution of income going to wages and salaries has increased between 1955-56 and 1970-71. 
The justification for the choice of a starting point in the 1954-55 or the 1955-56 period at the moment cannot be established. Anybody who understands the statistical approach to problems of this kind would find it very difficult to establish. I know what the Treasury does. It argues that profit rates before this time were abnormally low due to the effects of the Second World War and to other factors that are quite irrelevant and miss the point completely. The implications of this choice of starting point where profit levels are higher than the previous decade is that profit levels will be more likely to decline from that high point than if a lower starting point was taken. 
The case seems well established in my opinion that the proportion of labour's share of the national product in the postwar period has declined. The research work adopted a wide range of alternative approaches to the measurement of the distribution of income, and in the great majority of cases, 21 out of 24 found a statistically significant downward trend. By contrast the case for an increasing wage share, using a later starting point lacks empirical justification and is theoretically weak. 

 Sir, we in this Parliament are being deceived by public servants acting under the instructions of Ministers who are deliberately withholding from the Parliament vital information that has a distinct and crucial bearing on the decisions that we make here. Tonight I have read a document which as everybody will recognise is not a document that I could have compiled. It represents the thinking of a person who has written a thesis for the degree of master of economics. 
Yes, I have been misrepresented. I did not say, and I am sorry if the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  thought that I implied, that he put to this Parliament falsified figures. He is not a Profumo. He does not look like one and I am sure he is not one. Nor did I say that the Statistician was a crook, or anythink like it. What I said was something like what the honourable member said just before he resumed his seat, when he alleged that the Statistician who drew up the seasonally adjusted figures produced a misleading result. Statisticions do produce misleading results. The misleading results arise from whatever the chosen norm might be, and if you get a misleading norm you must get misleading results whatever the end figure might be. 
Another point I must clear up at once is the suggestion by the honourable member that I may have quoted these figures without the permission of the academic. 
You should have because I did it without his permission. 
That is right. I want to make it clear that I did not have his permission to do it. He does not know that I have the figures. He does not even know me from a bar of soap. I have never seen him, never spoken to him and never written to him. In case it may be felt that he has committed some indiscretion or some act of impropriety, as a statistician, or has broken some code which the honourable member seems to be able to lay his hands on, let me say in fairness to him that he knows absolutely nothing about this. That ought to be put clearly on the record. 
I think the Chair has been pretty lenient. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 12.6 a.m. (Thursday) 
1 seek leave to make a very short statement. 
The Opposition is disappointed that the Government, having gone so far along the road towards the Australian Labor Party's objective in respect of workers compensation, decided to stop at the 26-mile post and go no further. It seems quite absurd to me that a government which can recognise the justice of full wages during compensation for incapacity up to 26 weeks should say that once a person has suffered 26 weeks of incapacity, beyond that point he can go no further but must revert to ordinary weekly wages which, even with the amendments proposed by the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  will amount to only $43 a week for a single man and $54 for a man with a wife with an additional $5 a week for each child. The Opposition cannot agree with this concept. Nonetheless it is pleased to note that the Minister has seen the justice of its policy in respect of 26 weeks of a person's incapacity. However he does not seem to understand that the short-term incapacitations are not the ones that call for the greatest amount of help and financial assistance. It is the man who is incapacitated for long periods who really needs more money and for a longer period than docs the person whose incapacity puts him out of business for only a short time. 
When we reach the Committee stages I will move some amendments covering some 10 pages of printing but representing, because they have been clustered together into clauses, a total of 9 separate amendments. With the concurrence of the Committee I propose to move all amendments in globo and to have a vote taken on the one resolution that all of the amendments be agreed to. The Opposition will seek to change the definition of 'child' so that the definition will be broader than is now provided in the Act. It will seek to widen the definition of 'dependant' so that it will be wide enough to cover anyone who is, in fact, dependent upon the breadwinner or the injured worker. It will not matter whether the person is related. It could be a sister, a mother-in-law or a mother - anybody who is dependent on the injured worker. A widow who was dependent on the deceased worker should be entitled to compensation. The Opposition rejects the concept that it is proper to pay a lump sum amount to a widow or dependent widower and walk away from the scene saying: '1 have done all I need to do'. The Opposition believes that there is a moral obligation to provide for the widow of a worker who is killed in the course of his work and her children as though the worker were still alive. The Opposition completely rejects the concept of a total lump sum amount in the case of death and will propose that where a widow is left with dependent children she will continue to receive the same weekly pay week by week that she would have had coming into the home had her late husband remained alive. This will go on so long as she has dependent children. As soon as she no longer has dependent children it is proposed that she should receive a weekly amount equal to 75 per cent of the amount which her husband would have earned had he remained alive. I believe this is the only civilised, humane, sensible and reasonable approach to the whole question. 
The Opposition will propose the same in the case of permanent incapacitation. The amount of compensation will not be limited to full earnings for only 26 weeks as is now proposed. I wish that the Minister would wake up for a moment while I am talking. 
The Minister seemed to be snoring. If he can snore while he is awake, he is better than I am. What the injured worker should receive is the full amount of the earnings he would have received but for his injury for the whole period of the incapacitation. If he is totally incapacitated for 20, 30 or 40 years he should still be paid the amount that he would have received but for the injury. Further, we see no justification for saying to a worker who is totally incapacitated as a consequence of the loss of 2 eyes that because he is getting weekly payments he cannot get the lump sum amount which the legislation provides for the loss of 2 eyes. The Government's proposal says that he is entitled to a lump sum amount for the loss of 2 eyes but if the Loss of his eyesight caused him to be totally incapacitated he should get no lump sum at all but a weekly payment for life. The weekly amount that the Government provides for the first 26 weeks is not, in some cases the amount that a person would earn had he been still employed because it does not take overtime into account. It is based upon the person's entitlement under the sick leave provisions of his award or determination and overtime is not included. 
The Opposition's amendment will define average weekly earnings. He will be entitled to get average weekly earnings, not some amount that he would be entitled to as sick leave. Average weekly earnings will be defined in accordance with the Victorian legislation. It is important that we stay with the definition in the Victorian legislation because, as in all new fields of legislation, an Act is readily understood only after there has been a fair amount of case law surrounding it. The Victorian definition of average weekly earnings has been interpreted by the courts to mean what everybody knows it means. For that reason the Opposition adopts that definition and is disappointed that the Minister has not seen fit to do likewise. 
It is absurd to be prescribing fixed amounts for anything - whether it be for death or for the loss of any limb,  organ,  eyesight or anything else - because, as money values change, there should be some automatic provision to ensure that the compensation which is payable to a person rises or falls automatically with the value of money. Consequently the Opposition amendment adopts this formula. 
Sitting suspended from 6.15  to  8 p.m. 
I was saying, prior to the suspension of the sitting for dinner, that it is quite absurd to fix a lump sum amount for a widow whose husband has been killed in an accident at work or going to work and to say to that widow: We will pay you $14,500 and then, so far as we are concerned, you can sink or swim. We could not care less. Neither do we care for your children, once we have paid a miserable lump sum to them'. It is also absurd to say to an injured worker: 'If you are injured and permanently incapacitated, the only amount that you will receive after the period of 26 weeks will be that which is prescribed by the Act'. This could be only one-quarter of the amount that he would be earning, but for the accident. 
The Opposition places no limit on the amount that a person should receive while he is suffering incapacitation due to injury sustained at work or while travelling to work. The person who earns $150 a week still has the same commitments whether he is at work or whether he is lying on his bed at home or in hospital. It is absurd to think that a person should receive less than he normally would have received but for an accident. There is nothing novel about paying people the full amount of wages which they would have earned but for an accident. This principle operates in the Electricity Trust of South Australia where a full make-up pay system operates. It operates in respect of power house employees in Sydney. It operates in the building trades, and 1 was pleased to notice that the Minister for Social Services was impressed by what his friend, Pat Clancy, and others were able to achieve in the building industry in obtaining a full make-up pay system. 
But why stop at 26 weeks? This is the thing that staggers me and leaves me almost speechless - not quite, but almost. I think that we are still living in the Dark Ages. Our attitude to this kind of thing is the attitude of the 17th century. We have not become enlightened to the point that the authorities are even behind the Iron Curtain or in Arabia or anywhere else where the Arabs live. Some of them are further advanced than we are. Some of the Latin American countries are further advanced than we are. Bulgaria and Yugoslavia are further advanced than we are. They pay the full amount of workers compensation during periods of incapacitation. Even Mexico, a country that is very poor by our standards, does not expect that a person who is injured can live on less. 
I do not know about Uganda, but that would be the sort of place where I would expect the honourable member's chief interest to lie - in the standards which operate in Uganda. I am obliged to the honourable member for Diamond Valley for the interjection because this approach to the matter is the sort of approach that one would expect in Uganda. I thank him. But it is not the kind of approach that one would expect in an enlightened civilisation such as our own. 
Our proposal is that a widow who is left with children relying upon her should continue to receive the same weekly payment, while those children are dependent upon her, as she would have received from the breadwinner but for his accident. 'Dependant' will mean a child who is dependent on the mother for its education or who is not self-supporting. So, if a child were going to university, its university education would not have to be interrupted just because its father was killed in an accident at work. The Minister for Social Services is going backwards and forwards between the table and his advisers. He is so staggered by the truth of what 1 am saying that he cannot believe it is true. So he must keep going backwards and forwards and saying: 'Surely that is not true'. Of course, his advisers have to assure him that it is true. When 1 introduce a Bill next year to give effect to the amendments which I am now proposing, I hope that the present Minister for Social Services will show a more enlightened attitude towards this matter. I have the authority of my Leader to announce here tonight that, as soon as the elections are over, if a Labor government is elected, it will introduce a Bill to give effect to all the things which, tonight, the Minister will use his authority in the House to force a division upon and to force his members on party lines to reject. But we do not have to wait very long. There is hope for the Commonwealth employees because early next year a Bill will be introduced by which all the things I am talking about will come into being. Is that not worth fighting for? Of course it is. 
The lump sum amount which the Government will pay a widow under this Bill is to be a miserable $14,500. That is what she will receive  -  $14,500. The Government will then turn its back on her and say: 'We have paid our debt'. What utter rubbish! How could the Government pay its debt to a widow? She might be a very young widow with years of her life in front of her and she might remain a widow for 20 or 30 years. We believe, however, that if a widow remarries she should be entitled to a cut-off payment of 104 times the weekly payment that she would have received under the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill. But, in addition to that, in order that the man she marne:; does not have to maintain the children of her first marriage, we would provide that weekly payments must continue to be paid in respect of each child at a rate equal to not less than one-sixth of the amount which the widow would have been receiving but for her remarriage. Another point that I would like to make here is that under our proposal all widows will be deemed to be dependent whether they are or not. A widower also will receive compensation if in fact he was a dependant of the deceased worker. So, we have looked at this from every point of view. 
I can never understand why the Government thinks it is possible to do justice to people by specifying a fixed sum of money, being that amount of money which the Government uses for ascertaining the lump sum payments by applying a percentage to that sum of money. So, in order to meet the rise and fall of the purchasing power of money we have written into our amendment an escalation clause which will automatically adjust the total amount to which scheduled injuries are related by multiplying the national minimum wage for the particular city by 520, which would give for the city of Sydney a total sum of $26,936 compared to $14,500 which is proposed to be paid by the Government. It is more than double that amount. Is it too much? Of course it is not, because the total amount - the $26,936  -  would apply only to a person who lost both eyes, both hands, both feet, a foot and a hand or the power of speech. If a person suffers those kinds of injuries, surely he is entitled to an amount of not less than the $26,936 to which I have referred. 
The other great anomaly in the Government's proposal is that, if a person is totally incapacitated as a consequence of the injuries to which I have just referred or, for that matter, any other injury, he receives no total lump sum payment if he qualifies for a weekly payment for life under the provisions of the Bill. He is entitled to both because the compensation about which we should be talking is the kind of compensation that would be recoverable in common law actions for damages where 100 per cent negligence could be proved against the employer. We must cut out altogether this idea that there is such a thing as partial culpability or total culpability. 
I am sorry to have to refer again to another matter contained in the Bill. This relates to the amount of compensation provided under the Bill for the loss of one's reproductive organs or the capacity to engage in sexual intercourse. Why is the Minister so oblivious of the difficulties that are suffered by people who suddenly discover that as a consequence of an accident they are no longer able to engage in sexual intercourse. Has he lost interest in this side of life altogether? Does he not care any more about the plight of a young man who suffers this terrible injury. Let him take his mind back 40 or 50 years. Would he have been prepared in those days to accept a miserable $7,250? I am pleased to see you laughing,  Mr Speaker.  I assume that you would not accept it. Like you, we say it is too little and that the amount to be paid should be not less than the $13,450 which the Labor proposal would give having regard to the percentage of the special compensation provided for in our Bill. 
We are not satisfied with the way that the Government's Bill and the existing Act deal with the loss, or the loss of use, of a faculty, an organ or some part of the body not elsewhere covered, because unless the loss of a faculty, an organ or some other part of the body is specifically referred to in the Bill the person suffering the loss gets nothing. It might be damage to the spleen, to the gall bladder or to some other part of the body. It might be some internal damage which imposes upon the person suffering it a lifelong agony and disability. There is nothing in the Act as it now stands to give any unfortunate person in this category any extra amount. In the case of partial incapacity we believe that the obligation ought to be upon the employer to try to find another suitable job, and if another suitable job cannot be found at the same rate of pay the obligation should be upon the employer to make up the difference between the rate of pay that the injured person is receiving for the job which is found as a substitute for his earlier job and the amount he would have received had he still been employed in his normal occupation. 
I will say to his credit that the Minister has given a great deal of attention to the question of vocational training. It is important that we do everything possible to try to restore people who are designated as permanently or totally incapacitated so that they regain health and strength. I do not take anything away from the efforts that he has made to deal with the important aspect of rehabilitation, but I part company with the Minister on the score of what happens when a person earns something as a consequence of the rehabilitation. If we really want to encourage people to be rehabilitated we ought to say to them: 'As far as we are concerned, you are a write off for the rest of your life. We will treat you as totally incapacitated, but if you are prepared to be rehabilitated we are prepared to give you all the facilities for rehabilitation. If you can earn a partial salary or a full salary, that is a bonus for you'. It is far better having everybody employed as a useful, self supporting, dignified, proud member of society than it is to have everybody forced by virtue of a penalty incorporated in the present Act to shrink from rehabilitation. We should not subtract from a person's compensation entitlement anything that he might earn through rehabilitation. In other words, what we are saying is that the amount of compensation payable under the workers compensation legislation should be at least the amount which a person can recover in a common law action for damages where he can prove full negligence against the other party. But whereas in any common law actions the worker would receive a lump sum payment for the loss of earning capacity plus a lump sum payment for pain and suffering, we would see that he got a lump sum payment for pain and suffering - that would be an amount as high as  $26,000 -  and in addition he would receive weekly payments for life instead of a lump sum in lieu of weekly payments. Even though a Commonwealth employee would normally have to retire at  65  years of age, under this proposal of ours he would continue to receive his full compensation until he died, even if he lived until he was  75  years of age. 
We will not oppose this Bill; we will allow it to go through. It brings some improvements, lt brings in for the first time the right to full wages for the first  26  weeks. I am sorry that the Minister stopped at  26  weeks. I was hoping he would have grasped the nettle and would have applied the principle of full compensation during the whole period of the employee's total incapacity. The Bill increases the weekly payments, and that is something. The weekly payments have been increased so that a man can get  $43,  with another  $11  for his wife and another  $5  for each child. But it is far better to do the thing properly and give him complete justice by giving him the full amount of what he has lost. For those reasons we will support the Bill. 
In conclusion, although a Labor Government, if elected in the elections to be held in December, will bring in a Bill along the lines of the amendment that I am now moving, it will be treated only as a stop gap measure. It will give to every Commonwealth employee, no matter in which State he is employed, the benefits that I have just enunciated. But then we will not regard ourselves as having completed the job; we will not rest on our oars. We will go through the Bill completely. We will go through the Bill from beginning to end to see that all the anomalies are removed. Why should we not cover everybody in the Australian Capital Territory, the Northern Territory and at the North West Cape, all Commonwealth employees wherever they be employed, waterside workers, seamen and anybody else engaged in interstate trade and commerce? Why should they not all be covered by the one Act? Why should we have one Act for Commonwealth employees, another Act for seamen, another 
Act for the North West Cape, an ordinance for the Northern Territory and another ordinance for the Australian Capital Territory? Why can they not all be made uniform and brought into one Act so that we would not have the present useless, stupid paperwork and we would not have to engage in a cognate debate to deal with 3 Bills when we ought to be covering all by one. I thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  for the sympathetic hearing you have given me. 1 sincerely hope that the law I have enunciated tonight will be on the statute book and operating before this time next year. 
I now propose formally to move in globo the amendments standing inmy name. I have already talked about them and explained them so there is no need for me to recapitulate. The amendments refer to clauses 4, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 13 which read: 
Clause 4. 
Section 5 of the Principal Act is amended by inserting in sub-section (1.), after the definition of "medical treatment", the following definition: " 'overtime'  includes - 
any duty  on  shifts  or on  Saturdays, Sundays or other holidays; and 
excess travelling time;". 
Clause 7. 
Section 39 of  the Principal  Act is amended  by omitting from sub-section  (11.)  the words  "any of  the  last four  preceding  sub-sections," and inserting in  their stead the  words  "sub-section  (6.) (7.), (9.)  or  (10.) of  this section,". 
Clause 8. 
Section 45 of the Principal Act is amended - 
by inserting after sub-section (2.) the following sub-sections: " (2a.)  Notwithstanding the last preceding sub section, but subject  to  the succeeding provisions  of  this section  if  the prescribed amount applicable to the employee under the next succeeding sub-section  in respect of a week,  being one  of  the first twenty-six weeks  of  the period, or  of  the aggregate  of  the periods,  of  the incapacity, is greater than the  amount of  compensation that would, but for this sub-section, be payable tohim in respect  of  that week under the last preceding sub-section (including sub-sections (3.) and  (4.)  of this section, if applicable), the amount  of  compensation payable to him  in  respect  of  that  week is  that prescribed amount. " (2b.) For the purposes of the last preceding sub-section, the prescribed amount applicable to an employee in respect of a week is - 
in the case of an employee who is. during that week, employed by the Commonwealth under conditions of employment providing for sick leave payments - an amount equal to the sum of - 
the sick leave payment that he would receive in respect of that week if, during that week, he were entitled to, and were granted, sick leave on full pay by reason of an illness that is not attributable to an injury in relation to which this Act applies; and 
the amount, if any, that was payable to the employee under the next succeeding section in respect of the week that ended immediately before the commencement of the period of the incapacity or, where there are two or more periods of incapacity, the last of those periods; 
in the case of an employee who is not employed by the Commonwealth during that week, but was, immediately before he ceased to be employed by the Commonwealth, employed under conditions of employment providing for sick leave payments - an amount equal to the amount that would be applicable to him under the last preceding paragraph if he had continued in that employment; or 
in any other case - an amount determined by the Commissioner, having regard to the following: 
if the employee is, during that week, employed by the Commonwealth - the amount of the earnings, if any, payable to him in respect of that week in respect of that employment: 
if the employee is not, during that week, employed by the Commonwealth - the amount of the earnings, if any, that, if he had continued in the employment in which he was engaged immediately before he ceased to be employed by the Commonwealth would have been payable to him in respect of that week in respect of that employment; and 
any other matter that the Commissioner considers to be relevant. "(2c.) For the purposes of the last preceding sub-section - 
an employee who would be, or would have been, employed but for his incapacity shall be taken to be employed, or to have been employed, as the case may be; 
a reference to a sick leave payment is a reference to a payment by way of salary, wages or pay in respect of a period during which the employee concerned is absent from his employment by reason of illness; and 
a reference to earnings, in relation to an employee - 
includes a reference to the earnings that would be, or would have been, payable to the employee but for his incapacity; and 
does not include a reference to a payment in respect of overtime or a reference to an allowance that is intermittent or is payable in respect of special expenses incurred or likely to be incurred by the employee in respect of his employment."; and 
by omitting from sub-section (3.) the words "the last preceding sub-section" and inserting in their stead the words "sub-section (2.) of this section". 
Clause 9. 
Section 46 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from paragraph (b) of sub-section (2.) the word "sub-section" and inserting in its stead the words "sub-sections (2a.) and". 
Clause 10. 
Section 50 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from paragraph (a) of sub-section (2.) the words "in pursuance of this Act" and inserting in their stead the words "under a provision of this Act, other than sub-section (2a.) of section 45,". 
Clause 11. 
Section 99 of the Principal Act is amended - 
by omitting from sub-section (6.)the words "so much of"; and 
by omitting from sub-section (6.) all the words after the word "dependant" (second occurring). 
Clause 13.  (1.) The amendments made by this Act, other than sections 8, 9, 10 and 11, apply in relation to any weekly payments of compensation made in respect of a period occurring on or after the date of commencement of this Act notwithstanding that the compensation is payable in respect of an injury sustained, a disease contracted, or an aggravation, acceleration or recurrence of a disease suffered, before that date. (2.) Where, on or after the date of commencement of this Act, an employee - 
dies; 
suffers a loss of a kind referred to in section 39, 40 or 42 of the Principal Act; 
suffers facial disfigurement of a kind referred to in section 41 of that Act; or 
becomes liable for any cost of a kind referred to in sub-section (3.) of section 37 of that Act, the amendments made by this Act, other than sections 8, 9, 10 and 11, apply in relation to any compensation payable in respect of that death, loss, disfigurement or cost, notwithstanding that it results from an injury sustained, a disease contracted, or an aggravation, acceleration or recurrence of a disease suffered, before that date. (3.) The amendments made by sections 8, 9 and 10 of this Act apply in relation to - 
an injury the date of which is the date of commencement of this Act or a subsequent date; and 
the contraction, aggravation, acceleration or recurrence of a disease, the date of which is, by virtue of sub-section (2.) of section 29 of the Principal Act, to be deemed to be the date of commencement of this Act or a subsequent date. (4.) The amendments made by section 11 of this Act apply in relation to damages recovered on or after the date of commencement of this Act. (5.) Expressions used in this section have the same respective meanings as in the Principal Act. 
I move: 
Clause 4, omit the clause, insert the following clause: - "4. Section 5 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by omitting from sub-section (1.) the definition of 'child in relation to whom this Act applies' and inserting in its stead the following definition: -  "child" means a son, daughter, grandson or grand-daughter, whether legitimate or illegitimate, or child by adoption, or other child in the custody, care or control of the employee, who is not self-supporting, and includes a son or daughter, whether legitimate or illegitimate, who is born after the employee's death;'; 
by omitting from sub-section (1.) the definition of 'dependant' and inserting in its stead the following definition: -  "dependant", in relation to a deceased employee, means the widow of a deceased person and such persons as were wholly, mainly or partly dependent upon the employee at the date of the death of the employee or would, but for the incapacity or death due to the injury, have been so dependent;'; 
by inserting in sub-section (1.), after the definition of 'medical treatment', the following definition: -  "overtime" includes - 
any duty on shifts or on Saturdays, Sundays or other holidays; and 
excess travelling time;'; 
by adding at the end of sub-section (1.) the following definition: -  "widow" in relation to a deceased employee includes a woman who, although not legally married to the employee, lived with him at the time of his death on a bona fide domestic basis and, in relation to a deceased aboriginal native of Australia or of a Territory of the Commonwealth not forming part of the Commonwealth, includes a person who was recognized as the wife of that aboriginal native by the custom prevailing in the tribe or group of aboriginal natives of Australia or of such a Territory to which that aboriginal native belonged.'; 
by omitting from sub-section (4.) the words other than sub-section (5.) of section 43'; and 
by omitting from sub-section (10.) the words 'an impairment of speech of the employee referred to in sub-section (10.)' and inserting in their stead the words 'a partial loss referred to in sub-section (4.)'.". 
 Omit clauses 7, 8 and 9, insert the following clauses: - " 7. Section 25 of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section inserted in its stead: - 
For the purposes of this Act, the average weekly earnings of an employee before an injury shall be calculated in accordance with this section: - 
a reference in the succeeding provisions of this section to earnings of an employee in relation to any employment shall be read as including a reference to any allowance payable to the employee in respect of that employment other than an allowance that is intermittent or is payable in respect of special expenses incurred or likely to be incurred by the employee in respect of that employment; 
where an employee was, at the date of the injury, employed by the employer only in part time employment or in employment in respect of which the employee was not paid, any earnings of the employee from any other employment shall be treated for the purposes of this section as if they were earnings of the employee from his employment by the employer; 
subject to the succeeding provisions of this section, the average weekly earnings of an employee before the injury shall be calculated in relation to the period immediately preceding the date of the injury in which he was continuously employed by the employer but any part of that period that was earlier than twelve months before that date shall be disregarded; 
subject to the next succeeding paragraph, if, during the period ascertained in accordance with the last preceding paragraph, the minimum amount per week payable to the employee in respect of his employment by the employer was varied as a result of the operation of a law of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory of the Commonwealth, or as a result of the making, alteration or operation of an award, order, determination or industrial agreement, or of the doing of any other act or thing, under such a law, so much of that period as occurred before the variation took place or, if there was more than one variation, before the last variation took place, shall be disregarded for the purposes of the last preceding paragraph; 
where - 
as a result of a variation in the minimum amount per week payable to the employee in respect of his employment by the employer, a period that occurred before the variation took place would, by reason of the last preceding paragraph, be disregarded for the purposes of paragraph (c) of this section; and 
if that period were so disregarded, it would be impracticable to calculate the average weekly earnings of the employee before the injury in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, or the average weekly earnings as so calculated would not fairly represent the rate per week at which the employee was being remunerated in respect of that employment before the injury, that period shall not be so disregarded but the average weekly earnings of the employee during that period shall be taken to be the amount that would have been his average weekly earnings during that period if the variation had taken effect at the commencement of that period; 
if, during any part of the period in relation to which the average weekly earnings of the employee before the injury are required to be calculated by virtue of the last three preceding paragraphs, the earnings of the employee were reduced, or the employee did not receive any earnings, by reason that he was absent from his employment owing to illness or otherwise, that part of that period shall be disregarded for the purposes of paragraph (c) of this section; 
where, by reason of the shortness of the period during which the employee has been employed by the employer, it is impracticable to calculate the average weekly earnings of the employee before the injury in accordance with the last four preceding paragraphs, or the average weekly earnings as so calculated would not fairly represent the rate per week at which the employee was being remunerated in respect of that employment before the injury, the average weekly earnings, as calculated in accordance with the preceding provisions of this section, from employment by the employer before the date of the injury of an employee who was performing comparable work shall be taken to be the average weekly earnings of the first-mentioned employee before the injury; 
subject to paragraph (k) of this section, if the minimum amount per week payable to the employee in respect of the employment by the employer in which he was engaged at the date of the injury would, if he had continued in that employment, have been increased - 
upon the attainment by the employee of a particular age; or 
upon the completion by the employee of a particular period of service, a reference in this Act to the average weekly earnings of the employee before the injury shall be read as a reference to the amount that is, by virtue of the preceding provisions of this section, to be taken to be the amount of those average weekly earnings, increased by the same percentage as the percentage by which that minimum amount would have been so increased if the employee had continued in that employment; 
subject to the next succeeding paragraph, where - 
the relevant employment of an employee is employment referred to in sub-section (4.) or (5.) of section 7, or sub-section (2.) of section 8, of this Act; and 
the employee is not in receipt of earnings from any otter employment at the date of injury, a reference in this Act to the average weekly earnings of the employee before the injury shall be read as a reference to an amount determined by the Commissioner to be the amount per week that the employee would have been able to earn at the date of the injury (including any amount that he would have been able to earn in respect of overtime) if he had engaged in suitable paid employment; 
if the minimum amount per week payable in respect of employees included in a class of employees in which the employee was included at the date of the injury is increased or reduced on or after that date as a result of the operation of a law of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory of the Commonwealth, or as a result of the making, alteration or operation of an award, order, determination or industrial agreement, or of the doing of any other act or thing, under such a law, the amount that is by virtue of the preceding provisions of this section, to be taken to be the amount of the average weekly earnings of the employee before the injury shall be increased or reduced bythe same percentage as the percentage by which that minimum amount was so increased or reduced, as the case may be; 
in this section, "earnings" includes earnings in respect of overtime; and 
where the employee delivers to the employer a statement in writing verified by statutory declaration setting out the amount of his earnings during any period, that statement shall be prima facie evidence that that amount was the earnings of the employee during that period.'. "8. Section 38 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting sub-section (5.). "9. Section 39 of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section inserted in its stead: - 
(1.) Where an injury sustained by an employee arising out of, or in the course of, his employment is a loss specified in the first column of the table in sub-section (9.) of this section, a lump sum of compensation equal to the percentage of special compensation specified or referred to, in relation to that injury, in the second column of that table is, subject to this Act, payable to the employee. (2.) For the purposes of this section, special compensation is an amount calculated by multiplying the minimum weekly wage for adult males as fixed from time to time by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission by five hundred and twenty. (3.) For the purposes of this section and the table in sub-section (9.) of this section, the permanent loss of the efficient use of a joint, organ, faculty, power, sense, limb or member, shall be deemed to be the loss of that joint, organ, faculty, power, sense, limb or member. (4.) Where an injury sustained by a employee arising out of, or in the course of, his employment is the partial loss of speech, eyesight, hearing, taste or smell, or of the use of a faculty, organ, limb, member or joint, a lump sum of compensation equivalent to such percentage of the amount of special compensation payable under sub-section (1.) of this section in respect of total loss of a similar nature as is equal to the percentage of the diminution of the efficiency of the faculty, sense, organ or part of the body concerned is, subject to this Act, payable to the employee. (5.) Where an injury sustained by an employee arising out of, or during, or in the course of, his employment is the loss of genital organs or the permanent loss of the capacity to engage in sexual intercourse or of the procreative function, the amount of compensation to be paid to the employee, shall be fair and reasonable having regard to the nature of the injury, the age of the employee, and any circumstances relevant to the injury or the consequences of the injury, but the amount of compensation shall not be less than 

<graphic href="081131197210243_73_1.jpg"></graphic>

fifty per centum of, or more than the amount of, special compensation. (6.) Subject to this Act, the compensation payable under this Act in respect of an injury that is facial or bodily disfigurement to an employee is such amount of compensation, not exceeding the amount of special compensation, as is fair and reasonable having regard to the nature of the disfigurement, and any circumstances relevant to the injury or the consequences of the injury, and that compensation is payable to the employee. (7.) Where an employee sustains more than one injury in relation to which this section applies, he is entitled to payment of a lump sum of compensation equal to the aggregate of each lump sum payable under the preceding provisions of this section in respect of each of those injuries. (8.) The amounts of compensation provided in this section shall be in addition to any other compensation prescribed by this Act. (9.) For the purposes of this section, the table is as follows: - 

<graphic href="081131197210243_73_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="081131197210243_74_2.jpg"></graphic>

"9a. Section 43 of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section inserted in its stead: - 
 (1.) Where the death of an employee results from, or is contributed to by, an injury, compensation is payable in accordance with this section. (2.) If the deceased employee leaves - 
more than one person who is a widow for the purposes of this Act, with or without any dependent children, but no other dependants; or 
a widow or dependent widower and one or more dependent children, but no other dependants, a weekly payment of an amount equal to the employee's average weekly earnings before the injury is, subject to sub-sections (7.) and (8.) of this section, payable - 
in a case to which paragraph (a) of this sub-section applies - to the widows, or, if there are any dependent children and the Commissioner so determines, to the widows and dependent children, in such shares as the Commissioner determines; or 
in a case to which paragraph (b) of this sub-section applies - to the widow or widower, or, if the Commissioner so determines, to the widow or widower and dependent children in such shares as the Commissioner determines. (3.) If the deceased employee leaves a widow or dependent widower but no other dependants, a weekly payment of an amount equal to seventyfive per centum of the payment prescribed by the last preceding sub-section is, subject to subsections (7.) and (8.) of this section, payable to the widow or widower. (4.) If the deceased employee leaves one or more dependent children, but no other dependants, a weekly payment or payments of such amount or amounts, not exceeding in the total the maximum weekly payment prescribed by subsection (2.) of this section, as is reasonably necessary to ensure the proper maintenance and education of the child or children is payable to the Commissioner for the benefit of the child or children. (5.) If the deceased employee leaves one or more dependants including any dependant in relation to whom sub-section (2.), (3.) or (4.) of this section does not apply, a weekly payment of such amount as is fair and reasonable, having regard to the extent of dependency of the dependent concerned, is. subject to the next succeeding subsection, payable to each dependant. (6.) The amount payable under the last preceding sub-section shall not exceed in the aggregate - 
if there is more than one dependant - the maximum weekly payment prescribed by sub-section (2.) of this section; or 
if there is only one dependant - the maximum weekly payment prescribed by subsection (3.) of this section. (7.) Weekly payments under any of the preceding sub-sections of this section are not payable to a widow or other female dependant, or dependent widower (as the case may be) of a deceased employee after her or his marriage after the death of the employee, but, if immediately before the injury or death of the employee, the widow or other dependent female or dependent widower (as the case may be) was wholly, substantially or partly dependent upon the employee's earnings, a lump sum equal to the total of one hundred and four weekly payments, at the rate payable to her or him immediately before her or his marriage, is payable to her or him upon her or his marriage. (8.) If- 
the deceased employee leaves one or more dependent children and, thereafter - 
the widow or dependent widower of the deceased employee or another person caring for the child or children marries or dies; or 
the Commissioner considers that circumstances have arisen that affect the proper maintenance and education of the child or children; 
any variation of the circumstances of any of the dependants of a deceased employee has occurred; or 
there is, in the opinion of the Commissioner any other sufficient cause, the Commissioner may vary any apportionment or, subject to the maximum weekly payments prescribed by sub-sections (2.) or (4.), or subsections (5.) and (6.), of this section, as the case requires, vary the amount of, or cancel, weekly payments that are the subject of a determination under any preceding provision of this section, but where the widow, dependent widower or another person caring for the child or children marries or dies, the weekly payments payable to each child shall not be less than one-sixth of the compensation that would have been paid to the deceased employee had he survived and been totally incapacitated. (9.) Notwithstanding anything in this Act - 
the Commissioner may, in respect of a child of a deceased employee who is nol self-supporting, authorize the continuation of weekly payments until the education of the child is completed; 
where two or more employees die as the result of injury at or about the same time, and al the time of injury they were contributing towards the support of the same dependant or dependants, nothing in this Act shall be construed as preventing the Commissioner from determining that those dependants were dependent upon the earnings of each or all of the deceased employees; and (c) the amount of any child endowment paid under Part VI. of the Social Services Act 1947-1972 shall be disregarded in determining the extent of any person's dependency.'. "9b. Sections 45 and 46 of the Principal Act are repealed and the following sections inserted in their stead: 
Where an employee is totally incapacitated for work by an injury, a weekly payment of a sum equal to the employee's average weekly earnings before the injury is payable to the employee for the duration of the period for which he is so incapacitated. 
Where an employee is partially incapacitated for work by an injury, a weekly payment of the sum (if any) by which the weekly amount that he is earning in some suitable employment or business after the injury is less than his average weekly earnings before the injury, or, if he is not engaged in paid employment, a weekly payment equal lo his average weekly earnings before the injury, is payable to the employee for the duration of the period for which he is partially incapacitated. 46a.  -  (1.) In assessing the amount of the weekly payments to be made under either of the last two preceding sections, the Commissioner shall, subject to the next two succeeding subsections, have regard to any payment, allowance or benefit that the employee receives from his employer during the period of his incapacity, and the amount of the weekly payment otherwise payable under whichever of those sections is applicable shall be reduced to such amount (if any) as is just and proper in the circumstances of the case. (2.) The weekly compensation payable under either of the last two preceding sections shall not be reduced as a consequence of any earnings received by the employee during or after vocational training. (3.) Child endowment under Part VI. of the Social Services Act 1947-1972, a pension or allowance in respect of a child dependant upon the earnings of the employee, a payment other than that part of a pension not attributable to contributions for the pension paid by the employee under the Superannuation Act 1922-1971, the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948-1971 or the Parliamentary Retiring Allowances Act 1948-1968, deferred pay, a payment under section 74 of the Public Service Act 1922-1972 or under section 8 of the Commonwealth Employees' Furlough Act 1943-1968, and payments for public holidays, annual leave or long service leave under any other law, award, determination or agreement, are not payments, allowances or benefits to which regard shall be had under sub-section (1.) of this section. (4.) Where an employee is, subject to subsection (I.) of this section, entitled to weekly payments in accordance with either of the last two preceding sections and by reason of his retirement on the ground of invalidity caused by injury or disease, is also entitled to a pension under the Superannuation Act 1922-1971, the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948- 197 L or the Parliamentary Retiring Allowances Act 1948-1968, the liability for the weekly payments shall, if the employee so elects, but subject to the regulations, be redeemed by the payment of a lump sum of such amount as is determined by the Commissioner, having regard to the nature of the injury and the age and occupation of the employee at the date of the injury, and that lump sum shall be paid to the Commissioner for the benefit of the employee. 46b. Subject to sections 47 and 50 of this Act, where a determination is made that the liability of the Commonwealth to make further payments to the employee under section 46 of this Act in respect of an injury is to be redeemed, compensation is not payable to the employee under section 45 or section 46 of this Act in respect of a period of incapacity for work resulting from that injury, being a period occurring after the date of the making of the determination'. "9c. Section 47 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from paragraph (b) all the words after the words 'as the case may be'.". (3.) - Clause 10, omit the clause, insert the following clauses: - "10. Section 50 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from paragraph (a) of sub-section (I.) the words 'section 39 or'. "10a. Section 51 of the Principal Act is amended - 
by omitting sub-sections (1.) and (2.); and 
by omitting from sub-section (3.) the words sub-section (9.) of section 45, sub-section (5.) of section 46' and inserting in their stead the word and figures 'section 46b'.". (4.) In clause 11, omit 'and'. (5.) Clause 11, at the end of the clause, add the following word and paragraph: - "; and (c) by omitting from sub-section (9.) the words 'under sub-section (5.) or (7.) of and inserting in their stead the words 'in respect of a child under'.". (6.) - After clause 11. insert the following clause: - "11a. Section 100 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph (a) of sub-section (4.) the words 'under sub-section (5.) or (7.) of and inserting in their stead the words 'in respect of a child under'.". (7.) In clause 13, sub-clause (1.) omit 'sections 8, 9, 10 and', insert 'section'. (8.) In clause 13, sub-clause (2.), omit 'sections 8, 9, 10 and", insert 'section'. (9.) In clause 13, omit sub-clause (3.). 
I ask a question of the Prime Minister. This question is without notice. Was the present Economic Attache of the Philippines Embassy refused diplomatic accreditation while the right honourable member for Higgins was Prime Minister and the present Prime Minister was Minister for Foreign Affairs, because of the Attache's dealings in the Philippines and on Australian racecourses? 
Was this Attache later granted accreditation when the right honourable gentleman himself became Prime Minister? Has he checked the report that this diplomat was appointed without the knowledge or approval of  President  Marcos? Will he now table all documents relating to the Government's change of attitude in relation to this appointment after he became Prime Minister? 
I rise merely to state the position briefly. The proposal is that the Standing Orders be suspended in order to give the Parliament the opportunity to do a simple thing, that is, to declare that it is in favour of the adoption of the Jess Committee's report, that it rejects the recommendations of certain public servants, and that it, as the elected representatives of the taxpayers who pay the public servants their salaries, has decided that it will accept the advice of its own Committee. 

 Mr BARNARD (Bass)- I wish to give the House an assurance that the Opposition will not require a vote to be taken on this motion because the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  has given an assurance that a statement will be made on the defence forces retirement benefits scheme. I hope that the Minister's assurance will be honoured. I expect that it will be. I have no reason to doubt the Minister. But I also hope that it will be made at a time when an opportunity will be given to honourable members to debate the subject fully. 
I am sorry that I have to be honest and say a few things that represent more realism than some of the remarks we have heard from the other side of the House so far have shown. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  intrigued me when he talked about his great respect for the institution of Parliament. I have never heard such balderdash in all my life. 
Never mind about sitting down. The honourable member will have to listen to it. I am going to repeat some of the words the honourable member himself has uttered in this place before I sit down. Hundreds of questions have not been answered - so much for respect for the institution. Thousands of questions have been answered only after months of delay. Reports have been withheld from the Parliament. Reports that have been submitted by committees of the Parliament have been withheld from Parliament and have been emasculated, like the Jess report. Information has been suppressed so that the Parliament could not learn the facts. Debates have been conducted without honourable members knowing what the facts were, because of the Government's lack of respect for the institution of Parliament. The executive has constantly used the Parliament as a mere rubber stamp for decisions it had already made - so much for the Prime Minister's alleged respect for the institution of Parliament. Important Bills have been brought down at the eleventh hour without honourable members on either side having had a proper opportunity to consider them - so much for the Prime Minister's alleged respect for the institution of Parliament. Public servants have been directed to refuse to answer questions before parliamentary committees - so much for the Prime Minister's pretended respect for the institution of Parliament. 
Having said that, I want to dissociate myself completely from any good wishes that might have been extended' to the Prime Minister and to the other people who have spent so much of their time during the last 23 years preventing the people of Australia from getting the kind of legislation they have long been hungering for. I think the pensioners have no reason to thank the Government and the Ministers who sit behind it for the miserable mean handout which they got. The workers who are trying to live on $51.80 a week have nothing to thank the Prime Minister and his Government for, because that was the amount, which members of the Government actually opposed as being too much while they put their posteriors on the back seats of black limousines and drove around in receipt of ministerial salaries and earning almost as much in one day from away from home expenses as some people are expected to live on and to keep their family for a whole week. 
I want to say something about draftsmen. The Government is at fault - perhaps it is your fault,  Mr Speaker;  I do not know - or somebody is at fault in advertising for draftsmen who are already well experienced. You will never get enough draftsmen unless you decide to bring in cadets and train them in the numbers that you need. You will not get experienced men to come in as draftsmen. I want to say, on a more friendly note, that I agree with all that has been said about the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp).  At least we have had a well run Parliament since he became the Leader of the House. I think of the days of the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Erwin). 
Will you keep quiet? 
Do not talk to me like that. You make me sick every time I look at you. Fortunately I will not have to look at you in the next Parliament. 
I wish you would not drink so much on the last night. Try to behave yourself. Try to remember that temporarily you are a Minister of the Crown. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I do join with all those who have wished honourable members who are leaving the best of good health during the years that they will be in requirement. Among them - I will not mention them - are men of great distinction. Unfortunately there are better men going out of the Parliament than some of those who are staying in. That is the tragedy. The Parliament will bc the poorer for their leaving and I am sure that some of the more objectionable members on the other side of the Parliament unfortunately will not be here after the election. So that is one consolation we have.  Mr Speaker,  to you I say that occasionally I have noticed that you have indicated some semblance of being impartial and I congratulate you for the effort that you were able to make on those odd occasions. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
How many buildings in Sydney are occupied in whole or in part by the Commonwealth Taxation Office. 
What is the amount of floor space occupied in each building and what is the cost per square foot. 
What is the number of staff located in eacb of the buildings. 
In how many of the buildings is there a separate area set aside for lunch room and canteen facilities. 
What is the respective size of each of the lunch rooms. 
Where no lunch room or canteen facility is in existence, what arrangements have been made for staff who bring a cut lunch. 
What action is proposed by the Taxation Office administratis to provide adequate lunch room facilities for staff. 
What is the attitude of the Public Service 
Board and the Government in relation to providing lunch room amenities for staff of the Commonwealth. 
I am obliged to the honourable member for asking this question without notice because it gives me an opportunity of reminding the Opposition members of one fact which will prove embarrassing to them. In 1927 there was a gentleman named Clyde Robert Cameron who was then 14 years of age. In 1947 he, together with the present Secretary of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Souter,  appeared before the Public Service Arbitrator in a hearing to determine a new determination for the Commonwealth Railways. As a consequence of this, there was written into the Commonwealth Public Service Arbitrator's determination for the Commonwealth Railways, a provision which strictly laid down the condition that nobody would be entitled to paid public holidays and other benefits unless they were members of their appropriate unions. The determination then went on to say that the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner would be entitled- 
The rest of us are in 1947. I repeat that it was written into the determination that no employee would be entitled to the benefit of paid holidays unless he was a member of his appropriate union, but that the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner would be entitled to assume that all employees were members of their respective unions unless the union concerned advised the Commissioner to the contrary. This worked extremely well. Nobody was prevented from joining the Commonwealth Railways by the mere fact that he was not a member of a union, but if he was not a member he was not entitled to share in union benefits. 
In considering the Government's proposal to introduce an extra week's annual leave for members of the Commonwealth Public Service who were to be covered by the determination which was about to be made by the Public Service Arbitrator I discussed with  Mr Cooley, Chairman  of the Public Service Board, the method by which we could determine who were members of a union and who were not.  Mr Cooley  saw some difficulty in applying the rule unless there were some formula by which various departments and the Public Service Board could easily discover which members of the Commonwealth Public Service were members of a union, so I put to him that we ought to adopt the proposal which was adopted by the Public Service Arbitrator in 1947.  Mr Cooley  expressed great relief at not having to go through what he thought would be a cumbersome procedure for discovering who were members of a union and who were not. The remarkable thing about this is that the scheme in the Commonwealth Railways has worked so well- 
Pursuant to section 70 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904- 1972 I present the sixteenth annual report of the  President  of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for the year ended 13th August 1972. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
and (3) See answer to (1) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department is unable to supply this information. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matter has not yet been considered. 
See answer to (1) above. 
Employee Training: Investment by Companies  (Question No.  121) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matter has not yet been decided. 
, (3) and (4) See answer above. 
Strikes: Effect on Community (Question No. 47) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
and (3) See answer above. 
If the honourable gentleman will try to contain himself until the Bill is introduced, ail will be explained then. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: No. 
The change in the levy system by the AEWL seeks to preempt the advice of the SIC and seeks to affect fundamentally the Government's options. I would have wished to have an opportunity to consider fully this question in an atmosphere that was free from the difficulties that have now been created by the announcement of the AEWL. I want to express my appreciation to the honourable member for Wannon for raising this matter. It is a matter which I myself raised with the Council a long time ago. I assure the honourable member for Wannon that my Department and I will be keeping an eye on the situation and we will act quickly to see that a proper decision is taken when the time is appropriate. 
Yes, I am doing something. As I told the honourable member, I have taken up the matter with the employers. I have taken it up with the Stevedoring Industry Council. I will be writing to the body concerned again tomorrow. It came as a surprise to me to learn through unofficial sources that this action had been taken, in a sense unilaterally, without the Government being consulted. My Department is greatly concerned about this matter and we most certainly will take appropriate action. 
I realise that. Most of it is due to the fact that your government did not negotiate the matter properly in 1969. At the time it was worried only about bashing waterside workers. 
Debate interrupted. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
On 15th January 1973 the following organisations were invited to make submissions concerning the proposed amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, namely: 
ACTU, CCPSO, ACPSA, Victorian Employers' Federation, MTIA, National Employers' Policy Committee. 
Full details of the Government's proposed changes to the Act have not yet been publicly announced. 
See answer to (3) above. 
To receive submissions. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I don't know. 
I was correctly reported as stating in Perth that we ought to get better value for the money we are now spending on unemployment relief in rural and now in metropolitan unemployment relief programs. I said that I did not like a scheme which virtually turned people into members of a chain gang chipping grass and engaging in other non-essential schemes which provide work and keep people off the dole, but which do not provide them with any real job motivation and which do not contribute, to any extent worth mentioning, to tha improvement of society in the areas in which they work. I did applaud the Canadian scheme which encourages local initiatives so that jabs that have some social meaning can be embarked upon and so that unemployed people can be employed doing that sort of work. The Canadians have found that the scheme works very well. 
If the Canadian scheme were adopted here it would apply not only to metropolitan areas but also to areas like Newcastle and to country areas. The honourable, member for Shortland has shown a continuing interest in this matter. He has been to see me on 3 separate occasions, as a consequence of which I took the initial step of asking my Department to prepare plans for submission to Cabinet. I talked with the departmental officers about this matter in Melbourne yesterday and I hope to be in a position shortly to make submissions to Cabinet on it. When the submissions are made it will be made quite clear that we would use this sort of enterprise to deal with pollution problems. I am sure that when I am in a position to present the submissions Cabinet will be glad to adopt the scheme. We will be able to dispense with the chain-gang method of providing employment which the previous government was able to dream up, and have something that will be worthwhile for the people who are doing the work and worthwhile for the communities in which the work is carried out. 
I, like the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  am concerned at the implications of the change in the guaranteed minimum wage levy for the non-permanent ports by the Association of Employers of Waterside Labour. I am concerned, firstly, because it may ultimately jeopardise the employment of some hundreds of waterside workers. I am concerned, too, that it may lead to the closure of ports in a way inconsistent with our developing decentralisation policies. I am concerned, finally, that the AEWL has decided on this action without consulting me and, indeed, in anticipation of the inquiry which I have initiated. 
The guaranteed minimum wage scheme was agreed by the National Stevedoring Conference early in 1969 and became operative from 30th June of that year. The various provisions were incorporated in the waterside workers award and appear in clause 36a of that award. Broadly speaking, the . guarantee for each port is calculated quarterly and is based on the average number of hours worked per week in the preceding year. The arrangement provided a guaranteed minimum income for workers in ports where fullscale permanent employment is not regarded as an economic proposition. At the outset it was decided that the scheme would be financed by a uniform rate of levy in the ports concerned. Initially this levy was set at 8c per man hour, but immediately prior to the recently announced changes this had risen to 40c per man hour. 
Because of the uniform rate of levy it follows that some ports will, in effect, be subsidising others simply because the level and trend of activity varies from port to port. For example, the average weekly payment under the scheme during 1970-71 varied from as little as 10c in Geelong to as much as $10.88 in Bowen. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a list of the average weekly payments in the various ports covered by the guaranteed minimum wage scheme for the financial years 1970-71 and 1971-72. 

<graphic href="082131197303061_73_1.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the House. The attitude of the previous Government - of which the honourable member for Wannon was a distinguished, though, on occasions, rather destructive member - to the introduction of the guaranteed wage was conveyed to the parties at meetings of the National Conference of the Stevedoring Industry during 1969. That was when the actual levels of the guarantee were seen as a wages matter. Hence, the previous Government did not take any particular line, show any particular interest in the matter or make any submissions to the parties in favour of the small port. 
I regret that from 5th March of this year the AEWL decided to alter the basis on which the guaranteed wage levy would be made. The AEWL did not consult me, nor did the Stevedoring Industry Council, the Australian Council of Trade Unions or the Waterside Workers Federation. The changed basis of levying is inconsistent with the equalising philosophy of the Stevedoring Industry Charges Act which covers the levies on account of long service leave, attendance money and so on. The levy was altered from a uniform rate of 40c to a rate depending on the minimum wage payments required in each port The effect of this has been to raise the levy to $1.50 per man hour in Cairns, $1 in Mackay, $1.70 in Coffs Harbour, $1.15 in Portland and $1.20 in Esperance. These were the greatest rises and these are the ports where the threat to viability is greatest. On the other hand, in some ports the levy was considerably reduced. For example, it was reduced to 2c per man hour in Geelong, 20c in Broome, 20c in Albany, 25c in Devonport and 30c in Bowen. The AEWL claims that the levy would have risen to 60c had it been kept uniform. So at 22 of the 30 non-permanent ports where a rate of 60c or less applies, there appears to have been a reduction on what would otherwise have been the case. I ask for leave to incorporate in Hansard a list of ports, together with the levy applicable at each port and the work force in each port. 

<graphic href="082131197303061_74_2.jpg"></graphic>

The AEWL decision has good effects and it has bad effects. A good effect is that the levy per man hour in a number of ports has been reduced and that this ultimately will contribute to the more efficient functioning of these ports. On the other hand, the future of the 5 ports I named as suffering most by this change is clearly jeopardised. These 5 ports have  a  total work force of 337 and provide a vital service to the hinterland in the region of the ports concerned. However, we are not able to say now what the ultimate effect of this change in the levy will be and it is certainly quite possible that most of these ports will be able to retain their labour force even with the higher levy; we do not know. If they are unable to retain their labour force - and my Department is closely watching this - the Government will have to examine the case for each individual port to see which ports should be kept open and to determine what financial arrangement is most appropriate to achieve this end. 
Whatever the effect of the AEWL move, I believe that it should have consulted the Gov ernment before it took the action which is precipitating the crisis which is causing concern to the honourable member for Wannon and me. 
On 23rd February 1973 I wrote to  Mr Craig,  the Executive Director of the AEWL, concerning the Government's intention with respect to the future of the stevedoring industry. I said in that letter that I proposed to ask the Stevedoring Industry Council for advice on a number of matters which appeared to be crucial to the future of the industry. Amongst those matters were: 
What employment arrangements should be made in respect of ports in which no permanent employment arrangements appear to be viable In the foreseeable future? 
I asked also what special financial arrangements, if any, should be made in respect of those ports. I ask for leave to incorporate in Hansard my letter to  Mr Craig,  together with a copy of  Mr Craig's  reply to me. 
Curiously enough 1 am able to give the preliminary figures for South Australia, though I have not as yet compiled the figures for other States. However I indicate that I will do so later. I find that national unemployment has fallen by something like 30,000 for the month. That is the biggest fall in the number of unemployed since the statistics were first kept 25 years ago. In South Australia, the State in which naturally enough I have taken most interest, I find that unemployment has fallen by not less than 4,400 or 28.2 per cent, by far the sharpest drop in unemployment figures in South Australia in any month of February since unemployment statistics were first kept 25 years ago. The House will be interested and, I know pleased to learn that the fall of 28.2 per cent for the month of February compares with a 3-year average fall of about 1,500 in absolute terms, or 13.7 per cent, while unfilled vacancies - the most pleasing feature of all - in South Australia increased by 596 for the month, which is 13.8 per cent as against a 3-year average decline in South Australia of about 650 or 16.1 per cent. 
I am obliged to the Leader of the Country Party for that interjection! They do have a good government in South Australia. Undoubtedly this is largely the cause of the remarkable improvement in employment in that State. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The principal purpose of this Bill is to incorporate in the existing legislation improvements along the lines of those that were provided for in the amendments I moved in October last year during the Committee stage of the debate on the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1972. Those amendments embodied the Australian Labor Party's immediate objectives in relation to this legislation which provides workers' compensation cover for employees of the Commonwealth and authorities of the Commonwealth. Honourable members will recall that at that time I indicated that if a Labor Government were to be elected in December 1972 a Bill providing for such improvements would be introduced this year. This Bill honours that promise. 
Injury' and 'disease' provisions 
Before going on to outline the main changes which will flow from giving effect to that preelection promise, I think I should mention here that we are taking this opportunity to remove what is considered by the Government to be a serious anomaly in the present legislation. Under the existing Act, a temporal connection with the employment is sufficient to give an entitlement to compensation in the case of an injury, but it is not sufficient in the case of a disease. The amendments proposed in the Bill will allow cases involving disease to be treated on the same basis as those involving injury. Injury will be defined to include a disease or the aggravation, acceleration or recurrence of a disease and eligibility for compensation will be established if the disease, or the aggravation, acceleration or recurrence, arises out of or in the course of the employment. Though these amendments regarding injury and disease were not included in the amendments I moved last year, honourable members may recall that amendments along similar lines were included in the series of amendments that I moved on behalf of the Australian Labor Party during the debate on the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1971. 
Compensation  for total incapacity 
The major changes which the Government proposes to introduce by this Bill relate to the rates and amounts of compensation payable under the Act. In accordance with our policy that an employee in receipt of compensation should not suffer any loss of earnings, the Bill provides for the weekly compensation payment for total incapacity for work to be increased to the level of the employee's average weekly earnings, including overtime, in his pre-injury employment. Provision already exists in the Act for the amount representing an employee's pre-injury average weekly earnings to be varied, from time to time, to take into account subsequent variations in the rate of pay for his particular preinjury employment and this will now have the effect of automatically adjusting the weekly compensation payment. 
Compensation  for partial incapacity 
The Bill retains the principle that the weekly payment for partial incapacity for work should be an amount equal to the difference between the employee's average weekly earnings in his pre-injury employment and the weekly amount he is earning after the injury. However, the limitation which the existing Act places on the amount of this payment is removed. Furthermore, the Bill proposes that the Commonwealth shall endeavour to provide suit able employment for a partially incapacitated employee and, if such employment is not provided, the employee is to continue to receive weekly payments on the basis of total incapacity. 
We consider that it is fair that an obligation should also be placed on the partially incapacitated employee to act reasonably and so the Bill provides that the Commissioner for Employees' Compensation may suspend the weekly payments if the employee unreasonably refuses or fails to accept suitable employment, or to satisfactorily undertake such employment, when it is provided. 
Compensation for Death 
A major change is proposed in relation to the compensation payable where an injury results in the death of an employee. We propose to replace the existing lump sum payment with a weekly payment related to the average weekly earnings of the deceased employee. Because of this relationship, the weekly payment in a death case will be automatically adjusted from time to time, in line with  variations  in the rate of pay for the particular employment in which the employee was engaged at the time of the injury which resulted in his death. Under these amendments, a widow will not have to prove dependency if she was living with the employee on a bona fide domestic basis at the date of his death and, for this purpose, she will qualify if she was only temporarily living apart from him, perhaps because he was in hospital or she was merely temporarily away from the family home. 
Where there is a widow or a wholly dependent widower and one or more dependent children, or grandchildren, the weekly payment we propose is an amount equal to the full average weekly earnings of the deceased employee. On the other hand, if a widow or a wholly dependent widower is the only dependant, she or he will receive a weekly payment equal to 75 per cent of the deceased employee's average weekly earnings. In other cases, the weekly payments to persons who were wholly or partly dependent upon the deceased employee are to be determined by the Commissioner, subject to the total of such payments not exceeding the amount of the  average  weekly earnings of the deceased employee if he leaves 2 or more dependants or 75 per cent of that amount if there is only one dependant. 
When he is determining the weekly amount payable for the benefit of a dependant, the Commissioner is to have regard to the need to secure the proper maintenance of the dependant and, where appropriate, the proper education of that dependant. In the case of a dependant other than a widow, a wholly dependent widower or a dependent child or grandchild, the Commissioner is also to have regard to the extent to which the dependant was dependent upon the deceased employee. The Commissioner will have power to vary or cancel the weekly payments payable in death cases to take into account a change in the financial circumstances or needs of a dependant or for any other sufficient reason. The Commissioner will be required to make such a review in cases where there is a widow or wholly dependent widower and one or more dependent children or grandchildren and the widow or widower dies. 
Furthermore, a weekly payment being made to a widow or widower will cease upon her or bis remarriage but, if she or he was wholly or partly dependent upon the deceased, a lump sum equivalent to 104 times the weekly payment will be payable. 
Compensation for Specified Losses 
Another significant change relates to lump sum payments for specified losses or injuries. We propose that these lump sums be related to the national average weekly earnings per employed male unit as published by the Commonwealth Statistician and this will provide an automatic adjustment at quarterly intervals. The formula in the Bill provides for a maximum lump sum equal to the national average weekly earnings multiplied by 260 and, on the latest published figure, this gives an amount of $26,026 compared with the current maximum of $14,500 in the principal Act. 
Certain losses will attract the maximum amount of compensation under this section and others will attract a percentage of that amount. The existing percentages for the latter type of loss have been reviewed and increased. As well, some new losses have been provided for. These are: The loss of binocular vision, the loss of the procreative function, bodily disfigurement and the loss of a part of the body or of a faculty not elsewhere provided for in the section. 
Under the Bill all losses will be included in the one clause - the proposed new section 39 - and the amount calculated in accordance with the formula to which I have referred will become the maximum payable under the section even where multiple losses are involved. At the same time, however, it is proposed that these lump sums will be payable although an employee is totally incapacitated for work and also that they will no longer terminate any entitlement to weekly payments that an employee may have for total or partial incapacity for work. 
Lump sum redemptions 
Under the principal Act an employee who is partially incapacitated may request a lump sum payment in redemption of the Commonwealth liability to make weekly payments for his partial incapacity. The Bill proposes an amendment to the relevant section that will also allow a request for redemption to be made by a totally incapacitated employee who is in receipt of a pension, such as superannuation or defence forces retirement benefits pension, on account of invalidity due to his compensable injury. 
Vocational training 
The Bill will insert a new section of a beneficial nature for the severely handicapped. This proposed new section will apply only where an employee is totally incapacitated and would remain so permanently but for vocational training provided under the Act. In these circumstances, any earnings by such an employee during or as a result of the vocational training will no longer result in a reduction of his weekly compensation payments. 
Reimbursement of costs 
I come now to the question of costs incurred by a claimant in connection with a request to the Commissioner for reconsideration of a determination. At present a claimant cannot claim reimbursement for any such costs he incurs. By comparison, if a claimant institutes proceedings before a compensation tribunal or a prescribed court in relation to a determination and, before the proceedings are completed, the Commissioner varies or revokes the determination so that the proceedings are rendered abortive, then the Commonwealth is liable to reimburse the claimant for any costs reasonably incurred by him in connection with the proceedings. Under a new provision contained in the Bill the Commonwealth will be liable to meet any costs reasonably incurred by a claimant in relation to a determination which is varied or revoked by another determination as a result of a request for reconsideration. The Commonwealth will be liable for such costs when the second determination is more favourable to any claimant whose claim was dealt with by the first determination and also in the case where the second determination is less favourable to a claimant, provided he was not the claimant who made the request for reconsideration. This new provision will apply in relation to costs incurred on or after the date of commencement of the amending legislation. 
Consequential amendments 
Honourable members will appreciate that, with a comprehensive piece of legislation such as the principal Act, the proposed amendments which I have already outlined necessitate many minor amendments of a consequential nature. I should mention also that the Parliamentary Counsel has taken this opportunity to include some drafting changes in this Bill. 
Amendment of other Act 
A further matter which honourable members might like to note concerns the United States Naval Communication Station (Civilian Employees) Act 1971-1972. This is a companion piece of legislation which extends to civilian employees employed by the United States Navy in connection with the Station the terms of the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Act 1971-1972. The Bill provides for amendments to the Schedule to the United States Naval Communication Station (Civilian Employees) Act 1971-1972 so as to apply to the civilian personnel employed in connection with the Station the amendments to the Principal Act that I have outlined. 
Application of amendments 
The intention is that the amending legislation will come into operation on the day on which it receives the royal assent and the Bill provides for the  new  weekly incapacity payments to apply on and from that date, notwithstanding that the payments relate to an injury sustained before that date. The' new weekly payments for death and the new basis of payment in respect of lump sums for specified losses will apply on and from the date of commencement of the amending Act in all cases where the death occurs or the loss is suffered on or after that date, even though the death or the loss may have resulted from an injury sustained before that date. Perhaps I should add that the new provisions relating to disease cases will apply only where a disease is contracted or the aggravation, acceleration or recurrence of a disease occurs on or after the date of commencement of the amending legislation. 
Standard safety code 
At this stage I think I should remind honourable members that the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) legislation applies not only to employees of the Commonwealth and Commonwealth authorities but also to holders of statutory offices, members of Commonwealth authorities, members of committees appointed by the Government and to certain classes of volunteers. When our proposed amendments come into operation all persons covered by this legislation will have the benefits of a workers' compensation code which will be considerably in advance of the codes applying under the workers' compensation legislation in the States and this, of course, is in keeping with the Australian Labor Party's view that the Commonwealth should be the leader in this field. 
However, we will not be satisfied simply with this. It is only right and proper that there should be a comprehensive compensation code to cover all workers who are injured. But there is another aspect of this matter of industrial or work injuries to which I now want to refer and this is the prevention of accidents. We are not convinced that enough attention has been given in the past to the consideration of what can be done to reduce the incidence of accidents. In fact the prevention of industrial accidents and disease is specifically mentioned in the federal platform of the Australian Labor Party. The platform notes that the toll of personal injury is one of the disastrous incidents of social progress that calls for a co-ordinated response from the nation as a whole and goes on to state the objectives of the Australian Labor Party. This is for the Government to act: 
To establish mandatory occupational safety and health standards applicable to all employees of the Commonwealth, of Commonwealth authorities and of Commonwealth contractors, in the Territories and in interstate trade and commerce; 
to provide for the effective enforcement of such safety and health standards; 
to provide for research relating to occu pational safety and health; 
to provide for training programs to increase and improve personnel engaged in the field of occupational safety and health; 
vo delineate more clearly the responsibilities of the Commonwealth Government and the States in their activities relating to occupational safety and health; (fi to provide grants to the States to assist them in identifying their needs and responsibilities in the area of occupational safety and health and to develop plans to conduct experiments and demonstration projects in connection therewith; and 
to provide for appropriate accident and health reporting procedures which will help achieve the foregoing objectives. 
On other occasions, when speaking on this legislation in this House, I have acknowledged that some companies in Australia are doing an excellent job in this sphere. I have mentioned the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd as one company which, through a comprehensive accident prevention scheme, has substantially reduced the time lost through accidents at its works. In fact over the last 15 years it has reduced the incidence of accidents by no less than 93 per cent. So far as the Commonwealth Public Service is concerned, I know that some work has already been done in connection with accident prevention but I think it is time for greater attention to be given to this matter throughout the whole of the Commonwealth Public Service and in its instrumentalities. I have therefore decided to recommend to Cabinet the establishment of a representative committee to draw up a uniform code of safety standards for adoption by all Commonwealth departments. Once the terms of this new code have been thrashed out and approved by Cabinet I shall ask Cabinet to authorise the setting up of whatever machinery is necessary for enforcement of the new code so as to ensure that all departments will observe the new safety standards. Once we have a standard safety code it may become necessary to extend it to private industry, either through consultation with the States or by providing for it to be included in Federal awards. I am glad to notice that the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  agrees with what the Government intends to do in the field of safety enforcement. 
In conclusion I should like to make the point that, while accident prevention is of prime importance, it is also relevant in relation to the improvements in the compensation code provided for in the Bill. It is true that, under the proposed new provisions, injured employees will receive much more than they receive now under the existing Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Act. However, if we can get a worthwhile code of safety standards operating effectively, the net result will be an immense reduction in human suffering caused by avoidable injuries at work, and consequently an immense saving in lost production and government expenditure. 
It is a very proud and satisfying moment for me to be standing here on the government side of the House of Representatives to move the second reading of this Bill. I have worked on this matter for the best part of my parliamentary life. I want to pay special tribute to the unselfishness of my colleague, the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  for so generously allowing me the . pleasure and the honour of presenting the Bill to the Parliament. He had every right, as the Minister administering this section of Commonwealth activity, to have insisted upon presenting the Bill himself. He was generous enough and, I think, humane enough to know how I felt about the whole matter and to know what a great joy it would be to me to be the one to do it. I thank him for that and I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Peacock)  adjourned. 
The answer is really quite simple. It is possible for this sort of thing to happen simply because of the arrangements made by the former Government with these employers and of the legislation which protects their rights. 
The answers to the 3-pronged question are yes, yes, no. 
I could congratulate the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  on the delivery of his speech but that is about all. It was a very poor sort of speech. It consisted of accusing the Government of- 
To reply to the interjection, yes, Tammany Hall. I think another term that he used was 'open drawer for favours rendered', which brings me to the point that I should like to raise now. When I took up my office in Canberra some weeks ago, the first message that came through my telex when I pressed the button was addressed to the  Hon.  P. R. Lynch,  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, Parliament House, Canberra. It was a long telex message in which a certain  Mr John  Michael Downing offered to provide a reasonable fee for time spent. It stated: 
A reasonable fee is payable for time spent and if your man wants to ring Hector Ward on 65 5666 in Perth or myself on 21 4225 for more information we will accept reverse charges. 
If you can suggest anyone let me know urgently and I will try another talk. 
What do honourable members think the person sent the telegram about? The telex continued: 
Can you suggest a person in Canberra who can make a contact with some visiting Russians on behalf of a client of mine? 
We were hearing about the socialist monolith just a few moments ago. The telex stated further: 
My client Geotechnics (Aust) Pty Ltd has State Government permission to commence operations as a manufacturer of electronic equipment for the geological services. They have had discussions with a Russian company Licensingtorg and have reached a stage where they have adapted the Russian equipment to suit Australian conditions. (The original equipment was subject to heat failure). The Russian group are quite prepared to have Geotechnics manufacture in Australia but require a payment of $27,000 together with royalties. This seems a little steep to my client and they feel that this makes it a poor proposition. If a better deal could be negotiated they would be able to make other equipment and market it throughout Australia. 
Apparently the contact in Canberra is  Mr Velenchi  who is a Commercial Consul on 95 9033. Can you suggest someone to talk to  Mr Velenchi  and make contact with Licensingtorgs representative and find out what is happening and whether they propose to come to Perth for discussions? 
The drawer is open! It was rather an ill chosen phrase for the honourable member to talk about the open drawer. I should have thought the last question the Opposition would have wanted to raise was the question of letting contracts. What sort of things happened while that party was in government. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a list of contracts that were let by the previous Minister for Works during the months of September and October  1972. 

<graphic href="082131197303083_13_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="082131197303083_14_1.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the House. An examination of Hansard will show that the lowest tender was not always accepted by the former Government. I have had cause to raise in the Parliament an example of where the lowest tender was not accepted in a case involving the supply of meat by companies in Adelaide to the Department of Navy and the Department of Air. I was able to establish beyond all doubt that there was something rather fishy about the whole business, sp much so that it was rectified later by the unsuccessful tenderer in the case in which I had some grave doubts being awarded a tender later on. 
Let us look at some of the things that have happened during the previous Government's reign. There is a building at 162-166 Goulburn Street in Sydney. It had to be partitioned so that it could be used as office accommodation by the government. But a condition of the tease was that the Department had to employ the owner's own contractor. His services were quite unsatisfactory and complaints were made to the owner. The Department of Works had to get an appropriation from Parliament for the work. Its estimate of the cost of the partitioning was $152,000. The accepted tender price of Allen Constructions Pty Ltd was $180,000. 
I dare say the honourable member must have had a finger in this pie because he seems to be almost hysterical about the fact that it is now being revealed. I shall have to have a look at some of the other particulars concerning the honourable member and this company to see what is the connection. This is not the only example: The Department of Transport had an office in North Sydney in which alterations and partitioning were carried out for the Department on floors 3 to 9 inclusive. However the lease required that Max Cooper and Sons, who were the contractors nominated by the owners, should be given the work. The Australian Mutual Provident Society was the owner. One selected tender of $125,000 was obtained from the contracting firm. The Department of Works estimated the cost of the work at $87,000. After negotiations the contractor later reduced the price to $107,000. So I could go on. Another example involved die Department of Works. Parliamentary approval was gained for the expenditure. Later an additional expenditure of some $40,000 was required. When the contractor was approached and told that the price was excessive he said: 'I will take off $20,000 and stick to the other $20,000 for good measure'. This is typical of the sort of thing that happened during the former Government's reign. I would like to see - I have said this publicly - a system of open government which involves a system of open tendering. Why on earth can we not have the good old English system where every tender is placed in a box and opened on the day that tenders close, when the public can come along and see for themselves what the tender prices are. What is wrong with this good old English system which for so . long was abandoned by the previous Government? 
The Labor Party for many years has never advocated compulsory unionism. The only time that compulsory unionism was included in the Party's platform was during the period when the element within the Labor Party which finally broke away to form what is now called the Democratic Labor Party had control of policy making. It is true that then, for a few years, there was provision for compulsory unionism in the Party platform, but as soon as the Labor Party cleansed itself of this element in the Party it was decided in 1957 at the first conference held after that very happy event that we would alter the policy of compulsory unionism to one of preference to unionism. That is the policy of the Party at the moment. We do not say to anybody that they will not have a job unless they are a member of a union. I do not believe in that. I do not believe in compulsory unionism. The Country Party in Queensland for years had compulsory unionism actually written into its printed platform. It has maintained the principle of compulsory unionism ever since it took office in Queensland following the defeat of the Gair Government. Let us have no more nonsense about this business of compulsory unionism. The Labor Party platform is clear and open. We do have a clear right and mandate to incorporate these conditions in contracts that are let. The Labor Party platform states quite clearly: 
All contracts made by the Commonwealth, or by authorities of the Commonwealth, shall provide for preference to unionists, and observance of award rates and conditions (including the provisions of the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act) by contractors and sub-contractors. 
There is a very good reason for that being included in our platform. The Labor Party wants the contractors to observe award rates and conditions. So much for the nonsense talked by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition about circumventing established conciliation and arbitration procedures. Far from circumventing conciliation and arbitration procedures, the purpose of my Party is to make sure that the procedures are observed. The purpose and object of the Act is to encourage the formation of employee organisations. We want to encourage the formation of employee organisations in accordance with the objects of the Act. 
It appals me to think that an honourable member would rise in this Parliament and suggest that Commonwealth Public Service officers are so corrupt that they would allow themselves to be parties to bribery. This is a grave reflection on the integrity of the public servants who are responsible for awarding contracts. A more grave accusation could not possibly be made against them. To take certain aspects of human relations into account when determining the awarding of contracts is no more open to corruption than the past Government's practice, which has been followed by this Government, of taking into account the suitability of a contractor to complete a contract. The same public servants are awarding contracts now as were awarding them under the previous Government. If the public servants who are working for the present Government are corrupt and subject to bribery, the question immediately is posed that they must have been subject to bribery and corruption in the past. That is obvious; it is axiomatic. It immediately follows that if they are corrupt now they must have been corrupt when the Liberal-Country Party coalition was in government. My Party throws that accusation back into the teeth of the Opposition and in particular into the teeth of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. A more damaging and less justifiable claim than that could never have been made in this Parliament. 
I would like the House, before it involves itself too deeply in this debate, to think about some of the activities of the former Government which led to the sale of the Commonwealth Oil Refineries and Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Ltd. I remind honourable members of the way the former Government interfered with the private banking system and the way that Ansett Transport Industries Ltd was always able to pull strings, how National Instruments Pty Ltd was able to receive special concessions, how the deal concerning Jetair (Australia) Ltd was brought off without calling for public tenders. I should like the former Prime Minister to explain these things. I am so used to looking at him as the only honourable member opposite who could qualify for that title. I apologise for saying that. Can he explain how it came about that Avis Rent-A-Car System Pty Ltd received the contract to service all the Australian airports with a contract that did not resemble in any way the original specifications? Can he explain to us all the ramifications of the Fill deal? How can the previous Government answer those questions? 
I know from the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard),  who has authorised me to reveal this to the Parliament for the first time, that there was no control at all over spares for the Fill. What is the good of buying an aeroplane, a motor car, a sewing machine or anything else if there is no right to buy spares or there is no control over the price of the spares? I would sell or give someone a motor car, provided that he guaranteed that he would use no other and would pay for all the spares at the price I decided to make him pay. Members of the Opposition should be the very last ones to talk about things like Tammany Hall, open drawers for favours rendered, concessions to political parties or political preference. 

 Senator Cavanagh, the Minister for Works, has rendered a great service in laying down proper directives concerning the letting of contracts. The directives which  Senator Cavanagh  has insisted upon are all sustainable. He says that he wants to make certain that the union relationship is good. What is wrong with that? We want good industrial relations.  Senator Cavanagh  wants to make certain that employees are covered by workmen's compensation. What is wrong with that? He wants to ensure that award rates will be observed. What is wrong with that? He wants the right for union officials to be able to enter premises and to inspect the books. What is wrong with that? He wants preference to unionists. The Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has granted that under  1S1  awards. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 

 Mr LYNCH (Flinders)- I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable gentleman must confine himself to a personal explanation. He must not make a speech. 
 I am sorry I was not here at the beginning of the speech by the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke),  but if the first part of it was anything like the last part I am glad I was not here, lt was a concoction of fabrication, it represented just a miserable, petty attempt to try to get. political capital out of a situation that ought to be regarded as far above party political considerations. 
We are greatly concerned about the future of the ports affected by the change in the levy which guarantees a minimum wage for waterside labour, and it ill becomes the honourable gentleman to come into the Parliament and try to make political capital out of the misfortune that the people in these ports are facing. lt ill becomes him, a new member, to come into this Parliament and talk about what is happening in the stevedoring industry as though the present Government is responsible for what is happening. If he did not know more about the stevedoring industry than that, he should not have nominated for his seat, lt is quite clear that he knows nothing about the industry and he is the last person therefore who ought to stand up on his 2 hind legs and talk about it. Whatever is wrong with the stevedoring industry today can be sheeted fairly and squarely to the doorstep of the former Government. 
Naturally; I agree with the honourable member. He is as intelligent as he looks. He is able to see that if there is anything wrong with the industry it must be the fault of the former Government because the present Government did not make the law. What is this nonsense and all this miserable bleating about things that are wrong in the stevedoring industry? 
Would you mind your own business? 
I will come to what 1 did last week if you would just contain yourself for a while and try to act like a member of Parliament instead of like some yahoo from Queensland. 1 apologise for that. 
During the past  2  years the total number of breaches of awards was  24,000,  no less. Thirty-six of these were recommended for prosecution during that period. Only five were determined and brought to a successful conclusion. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition, in his capacity as Minister for Labour and National Service in  1971,  explained to me that it was the normal practice for the Department to receive written representations and oral representations from employers to have award breaches disregarded by the Department and no prosecutions launched. He admitted to me that in one year - I think the year before last - there was a total of only  3  employers prosecuted for breach of awards. He admitted moreover- 
Yes, and  1  will come to the amount of fines imposed. 
I do thank him. The Minister admitted that it was not the cutsom of the previous Government to use that part of the Act - section  1 19 (2.)  - to prosecute employers at all. Indeed, he said that there had not been a prosecution against employers under this section for more than  20  years, yet this was the section which the Government always used and supported the use of against unions. This was the section which would have imposed upon the guilty party prosecutions entailing up to  $1,000 -  indeed, up to as much as  $1,000  a day - but never once did the previous Government use that section against the employers who commited breaches of the award. Instead, it used a section of the Act which enabled employers who were prosecuted either to escape with a caution or to be found guilty without a fine, and the average penalty imposed upon employers under the section used by the former Government for breach of an award was about  $10  to  $15  - some fines were as low as  $2.  So it meant that the cost to the union of prosecuting an employer for a breach of an award was far greater than the amount the employer had to meet in the form of a fine, and this had a deterrent effect upon unions pressing their right to prosecute employers who were in breach of awards. 
My Government has decided that a very strong attempt will be made by the Department to enforce the award provisions upon employers who are in blatant disregard of the law. We are going to increase the number of arbitration inspectors and we are going to make it easier and more expeditious for them to carry out their prosecutions. We will no longer require them to go through the long rigmarole which the previous Government required arbitration inspectors to follow. So I can assure the "honourable member that strong action will be taken by the Government. More inspectors will be put on. We will prosecute employers through the Commonwealth Industrial Court instead of going to magistrates, because under the Act the Commonwealth Industrial Court is the court which has to interpret federal awards. 
Mr Speaker, it will be comforting to the honourable member for Mackellar (Mr Wentworth) to know that I do not dislike him at all. Indeed, I rather like him; I am very fond of him, as he must have many times suspected. I think it would be unfair for me to hold out much longer the source of my information about the honourable gentleman. My information is that a communist organiser named Frank Graham - would that name ring a bell with the honourable member - was the one who nominated the honourable member to be a member of the Federated Clerks Union which was then under the control of a person whom the honourable gentleman himself described - together with one other whose name I shall give in a moment - as the most dangerous communist that this country has ever seen. This was Mr Hughes. That was the honourable gentleman's description of Mr Hughes.
I always tried to take a very kindly view of the honourable gentleman. He is a nice person. When he was the Minister for Social Services he did try very hard, and he is very good in all fields except in the field of communism; this is where he blots his copybook, unfortunately. But of course one can never tell what is behind a person when he carries on a charade like this. I shall always remember reading a book on Russian intelligence. The very first lesson you are taught if you want to be a Russian spy - this was specially so in the days of Stalin - is to placate your intended victims by making them believe that you are really strongly opposed to Communism. You would get a special dispensation from the Kremlin under which you were permitted, with the knowledge of the Central Committee of the Communist Party in Moscow, to carry out terrible tirades of abuse against communism because this would give you an opportunity to sit down and have a cup of tea with people like the late Sir Wilfrid Kent Hughes and even with the honourable gentleman who is now folding his arms in relief - the honourable member for Moreton (Mr Killen). In this way you could extract from your colleagues - ministerial colleagues especially - very valuable and important secret information which could then be passed on to your bosses in the Kremlin. 
I have never said that the honourable gentleman is a communist spy. I have never said it because I cannot prove it, and I think that if you cannot prove a thing you have no right to say it. But there are some things about the honourable gentleman that makes me very suspicious. For example, it was said away back in 1950 that he was an undercover member of the Port Kembla branch of the Communist Party. The honourable gentleman who was then the representative of the electorate of Kingsford-Smith alleged that he held ticket number 261. The honourable member for Mackellar denied that that was the correct ticket number but until 1967 he did not deny that he was a member of the Communist Party. For 18 years he sat back and was honest enough not to deny the allegations against him. Then in 1967, rather belatedly I would have thought, 18 years after the first allegation was made he made a rather feeble attempt to deny that he was a member of the Communist Party. 
There are some things about the honourable gentleman which I think I should tell the new members here because 1 believe that this legendary figure ought not to be allowed to wither on the vine and pass out of history as the forgotten man. We should remember some of his exploits, especially during World War II when he commanded a volunteer defence corps and was asked by his commander to carry on certain exercises at Cronulla in order to demonstrate whether or not an enemy would be able to take possession of the Cronulla foreshore. So the honourable gentleman, with great skill and characteristic attention to detail, decided to blow up the Cronulla bridge to demonstrate just what could be done. It was a perfect example. He then dressed up some of volunteer defence corps members as tram conductors and approached the Redfern police station. Just as the police were changing shift, each of his tram conductors suddenly produced a pistol. They took possession of the Redfern police station and held it for something like 7 hours. After that they retreated from the police station, took possession of Field Marshal Blamey, took him to Leura in the Blue Mountains and held him there incommunicado. 
Eventually, of course, there had to be an end to these marvellous exploits. I am told that the honourable gentleman's commanding officer instructed him to mount his motor cycle, upon which he had broken all speed records in previous activities, to disappear in the direction of the Brisbane Line and not to come back again. 
I think that the honourable gentleman's repartee is worth recording. In answer to that charge by the late honourable member for East Sydney, he gave the House the benefit of this gem of oratory: 
I feel that the honourable member for East Sydney is wasting his talents. He should be out at La Perouse throwing boomerangs. 
As I said, I have observed the honourable gentleman with a great deal of attention and affection over the years. I think that the House would like to hear what the Melbourne 'Herald' said about the honourable gentleman on one of his performances. We saw him in action again this morning but this happened many years ago, back in 1954. Honourable members will agree with me that he has not changed very much. 
The Melbourne 'Herald' commenting upon one of his contributions to the House very much along the same lines as we heard a moment ago, said: 
Mr Wentworth created an extraordinary scene. He moved from his rear seal to the front corner benches and yelled enthusiastic support for Sir Eric Harrison. Then, alternately laughing wildly and putting his tongue out- 
That is an extraordinary thing, but he used to do it. The article continued:
... Mr Wentworth began to jump quickly up and down on the seat. He would then stop jumping, pat himself vigorously on the back of his head, stick out his tongue and then resume his jumping.
I ask you, Mr Speaker: Do you not think we ought to take a very kindly interest in this man? I think we will all agree that he is not well, but there is no reason why we should shun him. I think we ought to try to help him. I remember the famous occasion when he was running a newspaper called the 'Illawarra Star' on the south coast of New South Wales. The honourable member will remember that he had trouble with the unions. On one occasion they declared the 'Illawarra Star' black. So he thought to himself: How do I get on side with the unions? Thinking that the unions down there were communist controlled, he got in touch With another communist, a man called Edward Roach, whom he has frequently described in the Parliament as the most dangerous and evil communist that this country had ever seen. But that did not prevent him from inviting Mr Roach to his loungeroom to work out some scheme by which he could get the unions on side. The scheme was that he would present the 'Illawarra Star' Cup to the best team of marchers in the 6-hour day celebration held on the south coast. The honourable member was not worried about a 35-hour week; he wanted a 30-hour week. Sure enough, the Waterside Workers Federation contingent won the cup and was presented with it. In fact, I have a photograph of the honourable gentleman presenting the 'Illawarra Star' Cup to this dangerous communist, Mr Roach. Mr Ward, who was there at the time, assured me that when the honourable member for Mackellar finished shaking hands with Mr Roach, he actually genuflected to Mr Roach. I ask honourable members to remember that there will be another instalment of the exploits of the honourable member for Mackellar during World War II next time he gives us the pleasure of hearing something more about communism. 
Sitting suspended from 11.28 a.m. to 2.15 p.m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: . 
19,581 people were counselled by the Vocational Guidance Service during 1972. 
(a) Metropolitan residents . . . . 15,604 
Country residents .. 3,977 
17 years of age and under .. 12,589 
18 to 20 years of age .. 3,131 
21 years of age and over .. 3,861 
Males...... 12,454 
Females . .  7,127 (3) The Department has 10 vocational guidance units located at: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In Canberra, on 6th May 1970, agreement was reached on these procedures and an official announcement made which stated inter alia that the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the National Employers' Policy Committee would be advising their respective affiliates to adopt the principles expressed in the agreement. The announcement went on to say: 
It will be the mutual responsibility of individual unions and employers to give effect to the guidelines in one of the following ways: 
by incorporating the procedures in awards by consent; or 
by incorporation in agreements lodged with the appropriate tribunals; or 
by the formal exchange of agreed documents. 
The meeting agreed it would be important to translate these principles into action as soon as practicable on the basis of mutual decisions by the parties; to the extent that the negotiating parties to these principles can assist in such implementation this will be done.' 
Accordingly this responsibility for implementation and observance is primarily a matter for individual unions and employers. 
It should be remembered that these procedures were agreed against a background of trade union opposition to any form of penal provisions and, as I have already publicly announced, the Government will be removing that disturbing element from the industrial arena. This should greatly facilitate the implementation by individual unions and employers of the recommended procedures. 
1 am informed that the information requested by the honourable member is shown In the following table: 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is given by the following table: 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) The number of officers in the CES in each State is as follows: 
I am;informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician's most recent survey of the incidence of industrial awards, determinations and collective agreements was made in May 1968. This survey excluded all employees in the Australian Capital Territory, the Northern Territory, rural industry: and private domestic service. Detailed results of the survey were published in Labour Report No. 55, 1970. 
The estimated number of employed civilian wags and salary earners in Australia in January 1973 (excluding employees in the Australian Capital Territory, the Northern Territory, . rural industry and private domestic service) derived from the Commonwealth Statistician's preliminary , statement 'Employment Wags and Salary Earners: Australia, January 1973', was 4,467,500. 
The number of these employees' in each of the 3 categories as set out below, was calculated by applying the relevant proportion established by the abovementioned survey. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Published statistics on weekly wage rates to adult males under the Commonwealth and State award for calendar years as such are not available. However, the Commonwealth Statistician's publication 'Wage Rates and Earnings, December 1972', which was released on 13th March 1973, gives end-of -month figures for the weighted average minimum weekly rates payable to adult males in Australia for a full week's work (excluding overtime), as prescribed in awards, determinations and collective agreements. The mid and end point figures for each calendar year are as set out below: 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A survey of personnel practices undertaken by my Department in 1967 found that out of568 firms drawn from all States of Australia, 400 or 70 per cent reported that they had designed the personnel selection procedures they were using. 
This survey also found that 259 or 46 per cent of the 568 firms had developed ability or aptitude testing programs. 
and (4) As recently as September 1972 my Department carried out a survey to examine aspects of recruitment and selection procedures in a range of Australian firms. The results of this survey are currently being analysed. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The last estimate made of the cost of labour turnover in Australian manufacturing industry was in 1970. On the basis of the figures available at the time of calculation was made that the overall cost of labour turnover for the 1967-68 financial year was at least $45. 5m, This is only a very approximate estimate due to inadequacies in the data available. 
Because relevant data is not available it is not possible to arrive at a figure for the cost of labour turnover in Australian industry as a whole. 
Labour turnover rates in Australian industry are surveyed for the month of March each year by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics. The rates for 1971 and 1972 were as follows: 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The latest available industrial disputes statistics published by the Commonwealth Statistician are the preliminary figures for December 1972 which were released on 9th March 1973. The relevant statistics (as defined and reported in that publication) are given below. Figures for the number of man-days lost and of the number of workers involved are not published for each State monthly but are . published quarterly. The latest quarterly statistics that have been published are for the September 1972 quarter. 
the number of man-days lost- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The latest available industrial disputes statistics published by the Commonwealth Statistician are the preliminary figures for December 1972 which were released on 9th March 1973. The number of industrial disputes (as defined and reported in that publication) in Australia during December 1972 was 121. Figures for the number of disputes are not published for each State monthly, but are published quarterly. The latest quarterly statistics that have been published are for the September 1972 quarter. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics of industrial disputes published since 1913 by the Commonwealth Statistician show that the number of working days lost during 1971 was exceeded in the years 1917, 1919, 1920 and 1929. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Figures were not maintained for persons under the age of 21 years for the period 1963-1971. However figures for persons under 19 years were kept and these account for a very high percentage of the young people counselled by the Commonwealth Employment Service. The figures for the period are: 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (3) A survey conducted by my Department in 1969 on wage incentive systems in 1,327 firms in private industry showed that 26 per cent of 623,344 employees employed by the firms were working under an incentive system. The employees constituted 21 per cent of the Australian non-government workforce. 
74.5 per cent of the incentive schemes were those which directly related bonus payments to measured performance. Other systems included bonus payments on merit ratings (11 per cent of schemes), indirect bonuses where employees not directly engaged on production work were paid a bonus based on the performance of direct workers (6.5 per cent), profit-sharing (3 per cent) and systems providing for a regular bonus (2 per cent). 
The results of the survey when compared with those of a 1949 survey conducted by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics on the extent of the use of incentive schemes suggests that the incidence of these schemes has shown little change over 20 years. In 1949 28 per cent of employees covered by the survey received incentive payments whereas in 1969 the figure was 26 per cent. There is no reason to believe that there has been a significant change since the 1969 survey. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
During 1972, 1,786 unemployed former national servicemen registered for employment assistance at offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service. An additional 269 former national servicemen who were employed but who were seeking alternative employment also registered for assistance. 
(a) The number of unemployed former national servicemen awaiting placement in employment at 29th December 1972 was 138. Former national servicemen who were already employed but were seeking alternative employment at the same date numbered 43. 
At 2nd March 1973 the corresponding numbers were 172 and 64, a total of 236. 
At 2nd March 1973, 419 unemployed former national servicemen and 72 who were seeking alternative employment had sought the assistance of the Commonwealth Employment Service in obtaining suitable employment since the beginning of the year. 
Tonight we have seen another bit of electioneering by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The honourable member has always been able to present himself as a man with a fair amount of confidence in his ability to put a case. He usually looks confident even though his speeches have not always deserved the confidence that he seems to acquire when delivering them. But tonight his speech was quite poor. It was only mediocre and he lacked that ring of confidence and certainty that he usually is able to muster when he talks at this table. I was trying to analyse the change that has overcome this gentleman. I was not quite able to work out the reason for the change but I have just been informed that for the whole of the period that he was a backbencher in the Parliament he did not bother to ask one single question about the port of Portland. He never bothered to write to any of the Ministers- 
Did he? In that case, I have to drag the honourable member for New England into it also. I have been through all the Cabinet submissions from the Department of Labour concerning this matter. 
Since the honourable member has chosen to attack me, one would assume that the Department of Labour is blameworthy or praiseworthy for whatever goes wrong or goes right in the industry. I have caused a search to be made extending back to  1964 - 8  years now - and  1  can find not one Cabinet submission from the Department of Labour that would support the views now put by the honourable member. The honourable gentleman has evinced absolutely no interest in this subject for as long as I can remember. I was here when he first came into this Parliament as an upstanding, bright, eager-eyed young man from Wannon, but never once have I heard him say anything about Portland until now when a State election is pending. Why is Portland going through the trouble that it is now experiencing? It is going through the trouble because the Government that he actively supported in Cabinet and in the Parliament was responsible for altering the Stevedoring Industry Act which this Government inherited. It is not our Act; it is the Act for which the parties to which he and the Leader of the Country Party belong are responsible and which brought about the present state of affairs. The present state of affairs could not have happened unless the law permitted it to happen. Who made the law that permits it to happen? None other than the honourable member for Wannon and his Liberal and Country Party colleagues. 
The honourable gentleman who is looking around as though he made a great point ought to look this way and hear my point. He made great play of a statement made by the Honourable Murray Byrne who is the Minister for State Development and Decentralisation in Victoria and who is fighting desperately to try to win the seat of Portland from the Labor Party. So the Honourable Murray Byrne will do anything and say anything at all in misrepresenting the situation in Portland as being the result of this Goverment's failure to act in the interests of the port rather than the failure of the former Goverment, because the Act about which we are talking was not an Act that was passed by the Labor Government but an Act that was passed with the active support of the Federal member for Wannon. I decided to write to  Mr Byrne  on  27  th March, this is, as soon as I heard about the meeting to which the honourable member for Wannon refers. I said this: 
In the present controversy over the future of the port of Portland, a number of matters have been misrepresented, and in particular, the Commonwealth's role and the Commonwealth's responsibility. 
I have been disturbed, for example, to notice the statements attributed to you in the Press attacking me as though Portland's problems were of my, creation; and I was disturbed, too, on being informed that at a meeting concerning Portland which was chaired by you on Friday 23rd March, to which the Department of Labour was not initially invited- 
That is how much interest the Honourable Murray Byrne had in the Department of Labour. He did not even bother to invite representatives of the Department to be officially present at the meeting, and neither did the honourable member for Wannon. So it is quite clear that all they are trying to do is to make political capital out of this matter. At this meeting to which representatives of my Department were not even invited- 
Do not carry on as if you are the only son of a wealthy Western District squatter. You have been spoilt. 
The honourable member is interrupting me because he is trying to prevent me from reading the rest of this letter. 
I want the people in the gallery and other people to hear about it. At this meeting a motion was adopted which attempts to shift the responsibility for the viability of Portland entirely off the State Government's shoulders and entirely on to my shoulders. That resolution read: 
This meeting asks  Mr Cameron  to make a direct approach to the AEWL and to use his influence to have the decision reversed. If no satisfactory reply is received within a week, Murray Byrne is empowered to send a representative group through  Mr Fraser  to see  Mr Cameron. 
Nothing could be more ridiculous than that. Fancy sending anybody from Portland to represent Portland's interests through the honourable member for Wannon, who has not lifted a finger to help Portland in the whole of the time he has been in Parliament. In my letter I went on to say: 
Let me say that I find the basis on which the motion was adopted on Friday quite erroneous. This is because it bears no relation to the true cause of Portland's problems. I think you know that I have already asked  Mr Norman  Foster to investigate the situation at Portland and I expect to have his report in a few days. However, it is clear to me, at this stage, that the problems that exist at Portland have been evident for months and even years before the change in AEWL levy. 
I have some news for the honourable member for Wannon. I shall be seeking leave to make a statement in this Parliament concerning the Portland situation as soon as I receive the report from  Mr Norman  K. Foster, who will be reporting to me, I hope, by Tuesday or Wednesday of next week. My letter continued: 
As I am sure you are well aware, the viability of a port is ultimately determined solely by the volume of cargo which can be shipped through it. This in turn depends upon the industries which carry on their activities in the surrounding district and the arrangements which they make to obtain their raw materials and transport their products. 
The honourable member for Wannon who is the biggest and richest wool grower in the Western District sends all of his wool through the port of Geelong. Here is a man who has the audacity to pretend that he has some interest in the port of Portland and in the viability of that port. I go on to state to  Mr Byrne: 
For some time cargo through-put al Portland has been declining and the cause of this is the way in which local industries have chosen to operate. 
The honourable member and his wealthy friends have decided to send some hundreds of thousands of bales of wool through Geelong instead of Portland. Why does he not send it through Portland which is the wool centre? That is the proper place from which to send it. I continue in the letter: 
So long as through-put continues to decline, the change in the AEWL levying system is of marginal significance - of less significance, for example- 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In successive fiscal years from 1963 onwards the number of apprentices employed under the Scheme were 1; 432; 709; 570; 457; 617; 778; 818; 970 and 1,167. 
1963- Engineering and Electrical, 1; 1964- Engineering and Electrical 383, Building 49; 1965 onwards under the same two trade groups, 452 and 257: 374 and 196; 280 and 177; 371 and 246; 478 and 282; 511 and 286; 586 and 358; and in the year 1972, 724 and 415 respectively. With effect from 1969 printing trades were included and numbers employed were 18; 21; 26 and 28. 
The annual sums paid to employees in allowances for the fiscal years 1963 onwards were $68; $29,098; $85,350; $74,987; $98,784; $89,446; $105,054; $31,181; $151,384 and $261,467. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department advises that increases in staff of the Commonwealth Employment Service and the percentage increase are as follows as at 31st December 1972: 
 I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Positions designated Psychologist have existed in the Department only since 1967. The number of officers employed in operational positions of psychologist in each of the past 6 years is as follows: 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The latest available Trade Union Statistics published by the Commonwealth Statistician show the following proportion of total wage and salary earners in Australia who were members of a trade union: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government's attitude to negotiated agreements is clearly stated in its platform. It supports and encourages such agreements as the best basis for the maintenance of good industrial relations, the avoidance of industrial disputes and adverse effects on the community. 
The scope of the agreements is  a  matter for the parties. 
At this stage the Government's role will be confined to ensuring that such agreements are well understood and approved by the union members concerned otherwise they will not have the force of an award under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
and (5) See answer to (1) above. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) I am informed that the number of productivity groups in operation on 31st December of each of the last 10 years, the number of firms involved and the percentage of groups outside the capital cities were: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
<para pgwide="yes">In November 1965, August 1966 and 1967, and May 1971 the Commonwealth Statistician conducted surveys of the nature and extent of multiple job holding in Australia. The results of the 1971 survey are shown in the following table. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following estimates have been compiled in co-operation with the State Labour Departments and the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics. They arc based on Stale Statistics of claims finalised during 1969-70 under Workers' Compensation Insurance and on special extractions compiled by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics from data supplied by the States. 
Fatalities- 360 
Temporary disabilities involving the loss of one or more working days or shifts - 270,000 
Working time lost from disabilities of one day or longer - 700,000 man-weeks 
Claims paid under Workers Compensation and Employers Liability- -$117,435,000. 
Responsibility for accident prevention rests primarily with State Governments, except in territories under the control of the Commonwealth and in Commonwealth employment. The action proposed by the Government in the field of occupational safety and health was given in some detail when 1 presented the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1973 to this House on 7th March. 
1 am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Figures are noi available for calendar years, but would approximate very closely the figures for fiscal years which are for the years ending 30th June 1963 through to 1971: 40, 45, 54, 54, 32, 57, 23, 34, 46. My Department placed no trainees in technical colleges in the year ending 30th June 1972 because the responsibility was transferred to the Department of Education in December 1971. 
and (c) Separate figures for (b) and (c) are not available, nor are figures for calendar years. Total figures for the years ending 30th June 1963 through to 1972 are: 99, 132, 161, 157, 123, 172, 202, 156, 193, 226. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department assists the United Nations and its major specialised agencies and the Department of Foreign Affairs in the recruitment of experts for overseas assignments. The Department provides a referral and pre-selection service for the various organisations which are, in turn, responsible for the final selection of candidates and allocation of assignments. 
The numbers of persons appointed from Australia to such overseas assignments in each of the past 10 calendar years are set out in the following table: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised that because the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission's year begins on 14th August and ends on 13th August of the succeeding year the information requested can only be provided for the annual periods as shown below. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A recent survey suggests that annual cost in terms of wages and salaries paid to employees during absence was $640m. Information is not available for cost estimates to be made of such effects as disruption to production and reduced utilisation of overheads. 
The nature of the work environment and personnel policies and practices pursued in the individual work place are among significant factors in relation to absence from work. Consequently, responsibility for the control of absence rests with management. However, to assist management with this task my Department will conduct research not only into the incidence and causes of absence but also into such positive areas of relevance as job satisfaction and job enrichment. The results of this research will be widely publicised. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member's question is not clear  as  I am advised the Public Service Board deals with  a  large number and range of matters each year. 1 have assumed the question seeks information on wages and conditions matters to which the Public Service Board was a respondent that came before the Public Service Arbitrator and were resolved by consent. Statistics on these matters are available on a financial rather than a calendar year basis. 
I am informed that the percentage of such consent Determinations of the Public Service Arbitrator for each financial year from 1965-66 is as follows: 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On present published information it is not possible to provide estimates for all the groups  on  either a calendar or financial year basis. The advice of the Commonwealth Statistician is being sought on this matter. 
See answer to part (1). 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
4,000. 
SI 1,442.50. 
To the end of 1972. 286  of  those listed in the publication are known  to  have been placed In employment in Australia. 
Public Service Board: Matters Resolved by Consent (Question No. 41) 
-I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
PostDischarge Vocational Training Scheme for Members of the Permanent Forces; 
I lay on the table a document prepared by the Permanent Head of my Department concerning Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd employer nomination at Whyalla - unskilled and semi-skilled workers. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The principal function of the Professional Employment Offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service is to assist professionally and technically qualified persons and those who thoughnot so qualified have experience appropriate to senior level positions to obtain employment and to assist and advise employers seeking to recruit such personnel. 
I  am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the calendar years 1963 to 1972 the following numbers of handicapped persons applied for employment assistance through the Commonwealth Employment Service - 
I thank the honourable member for the question without notice. The average weekly earnings at the moment amount to more than $100. The figures are issued each quarter. The number of people who do not receive the average weekly earnings amounts to about 64 per cent of the total employees in the Australian work force. 
1 admit that it is a shame and it indicates clearly that the award rates are far too low. The reason that average weekly earnings appear to be high - and they certainly give a distorted figure of the true position - is that the salaries of everybody who is designated as an employee are included in the total figure. Therefore the salaries of Prime Ministers, Judges, Ministers, leading executives and all other highly paid people are lumped together with the earnings of those who are receiving only $51.10 a week. Then the total sum is divided by the total number of wage and salary earners in the work force which amounts to about, but not quite, 4.5 million people. It includes, of course, overtime and also the salary that the honourable member for Boothby gets as managing director of McLeay Carpets. It all adds up. 
Yes. And it includes all other carpet-baggers. It is a distorted figure and should never be quoted as representing the amount that the ordinary wage and salary earners get. 
If the honourable gentleman had taken the bother to ask me this question a few minutes ago as we passed each other in the corridor I could have told him very simply that the Permanent Head of my Department is not given to making immoderate statements and he did not make an immoderate statement on this occasion. In view of the fact that the matter has now been raised, as soon as question time has been completed I will table the full statement made by the Permanent Head of my Department from which the honourable member who asked the question will feel that he has badly misinterpreted what the Permanent Head said. I hope that in due course the honourable member will tender a suitable apology to him. 
In accordance with my party's policy of tabling the records of meetings held between Commonwealth and State Ministers I table the notes of the Sixth Meeting of Commonwealth and State Labour Ministers held on Friday, 23rd February 1973, in the conference room of the Department of Labour, Century Building, 125 Swanston Street, Melbourne. I would like to add that this is the first of such reports ever to be made available to the Parliament. 
Since the guaranteed minimum wage levy issue has become the subject of some particularly opportunistic politics by the Victorian Government and, in this Parliament, by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  I want to put on record the course of events which led to this statement today. The first point is that the Association of Employers of Waterside Labour chose to alter the funding basis of the guaranteed minimum wage levy only a month ago. The day after on Tuesday, 6th March I told this House that I was deeply concerned at the implications of the move by the AEWL. I said that 1 was concerned because it might jeopardise the employment of some hundreds of waterside workers, because it might lead to the closure of ports in a way inconsistent with our developing decentralisation policies and finally because the AEWL had decided on this action without consulting me and in anticipation of the inquiry which I had initiated on 23rd February. 
I undertook to examine the effects of the change and to determine what new financial arrangements might be appropriate to offset the ill effects of the move by the AEWL. That was on 6th March. The following day I sent a letter to all members of the Stevedoring Industry Council confirming that an inquiry into the industry should take place and that I would expect it to include an inquiry into the effect of the changes in the method of imposing AEWL levies to finance the guaranteed minimum wage in casual ports. I ask for leave to incorporate in Hansard a copy of the letter which I sent to all members of the Stevedoring Industry Council on 7th March 1973. 

 Mr R. M. Northrop, Q.C.,  Chairman,  Stevedoring Industry Council, C/o Owen Dixon Chambers, 205 William Street, Melbourne, Victoria 3000. 
Dear  Mr Northrop, 
I refer to my letter dated 23rd February in which 1 indicated my intention of seeking advice from the Stevedoring Industry Council on a number of matters relating to the future of the industry. The major parties represented on the Council have indicated to me that they see no difficulties in the way of the Council giving me advice in relation to the questions which I propose, namely: 
What scheme of permanent employment, if any, can be introduced into ports in which the 1967 National Conference scheme involving weekly hiring does not operate? 
What employment arrangements should be made in respect of ports in which no permanent employment arrangements appear to be viable in the foreseeable future? 
What special financial arrangements,if any, should be made in respect of ports covered in  (1)  and (2) above respectively? 
What changes, if any, should be made to the basis on which the Stevedoring Industry charge is presently levied, and in particular whether the present 'man hour' basis should be replaced or supplemented by some other method of assessment? 
I would appreciate the Council furnishing me with its views on these matters no later than 31st July 1973. This would not, of course, preclude the Council advising me on any one of these issues at an earlier date if it felt in a position to do so. 
You probably will be aware of the recent public comment concerning the effect of changes in the method of imposing AEWL levies designed to finance the guaranteed minimum wage in casual ports. In my view, this matter is comprehended by item (3) above, and 1 would expect the Council's advice to take into account considerations arising in this area. 
Yours sincerely. 
CLYDE R. CAMERON 
I thank the House. That letter was sent 2 days after  I  was informed of the AEWL decision. It is difficult to imagine the former Government, of which the honourable member for Wannon was  a  member, acting with the speed with which  I  acted in this case. Over the succeeding week my Department continued to monitor the effect of the AEWL levy. On 15th March 10 days after the AEWL decision became known I told the House: 
The inquiries I have made have convinced me that it is not a matter entirely in the hands of the employers to correct. It cannot be corrected at all unless we alter the legislation which brought about the disaster. 
Honourable members will appreciate the significance of that comment a little later. During the same debate the honourable member for Wannon alleged, quite incorrectly, that I had not written to the AEWL. The letter dated 7th March, which I have incorporated in Hansard, proves him wrong. The honourable member has been consistently wrong and has consistently attacked me for inactivity when, in fact, I have expended a great deal of energy in correcting the mistakes of the Government of which he was a member. During my speech on 15th March this year I announced that  Mr Norman  Foster- 
Yes, a good man. I agree with the honourable member. During my speech on 15 th March  I  announced that  Mr Norman  Foster, together with 2 departmental officers had been dispatched to Portland to make an on the spot investigation of the trouble. The issue came up in the House again on 28th March, 3 weeks after the AEWL changed its levying  arrangements. I said in that debate that I would be seeking leave to make a statement in this Parliament concerning the Portland situation as soon as I received the report from my Department which would be reporting to me by Tuesday the following week. That is today. I am happy indeed I am very proud to be able to present that report now. That report is now tabled. It has been supplied or will be supplied upon request, to all honourable members. 
It was on that date 28th March that I read to the House part of a letter which I had sent to the Honourable Murray Byrne, Minister for State Development and Decentralisation in the Victorian Government. That letter replied to the criticism of me that had been made by  Mr Byrne  in the Press and clearly demonstrated the political opportunism of the Victorian Government and its allies in this Parliament in vilifying me during the period of the State pre-election campaign.I ask for leave to incorporate in Hansard the full text of my letter to  Mr Byrne  to which, I might add, he has not yet cared to reply. 
If the Honourable Murray Byrne had the interest in the welfare of Portland that he pretended to have for the purposes of the election campaign, I would have thought that at least he would have replied to my letter to him dated 27th March, but not a word have 1 heard from the Honourable Murray Byrne. The day after that letter was sent 28th March acting on advice from  Mr Foster  and other officers of the Department as to the seriousness of the situation in some smaller ports, I sent an urgent telegram to the parties to the Stevedoring Industry Council. That telegram read as follows: 
In view of the difficulties at smaller ports I would be glad if Council could urgently advise me of their views on the guaranteed minimum wage levy. Specifically I seek its view on the desirability of funding the guaranteed minimum wage levy in non-permanent ports out of the uniform levy imposed under the Stevedoring Charges Act, on all ports permanent and non-permanent. 
I had the added advantage that  Mr Norman  Foster had actually conferred with the members of the Stevedoring Industry Council and was able to report to me directly on the issues as the Council saw them. 
This proposal seemed to me the only one which could advantage Portland. Cairns, Mackay, Coffs Harbour and Esperance - the ports in which the guaranteed minimum wage levy had been increased - without disadvantaging the remaining ports whose levy had been decreased. The effect of merely returning to the old system - the course advocated by the honourable member for Wannon - would have been to help Portland marginally, and only marginally, at the expense of ports like Geelong outside his electorate. I could not afford to be so partisan. 1 had to adopt a national outlook to this question and had to behave in more of a statesmanlike manner than the purely partisan parish pump attitude which the honourable member for Wannon has only recently been able to raise in himself. Until recently he did not bother to have even a parish pump interest in the electorate of Wannon but now at any rate he has been able to muster this interest while the Victorian State election campaign is in progress, a synthetic parish pump interest in the affair. 
This afternoon the Stevedoring Industry Council informed me of its unanimous recommendation and I am pleased to be able to read now to the Parliament the text of the message that I received. The Council agreed, firstly, that it is desirable that the costs of the guaranteed minimum wage scheme should be funded through the stevedoring industry charge and, secondly, that in that event the cost of this particular item of expenditure should be made from the proceeds of all three rates of charge Which will involve a contribution from permanent ports, as applies in the case of other industrial costs. I am able now to state to the Parliament that I am authorised by a unanimous decision of the Government members Industrial Relations Committee to recommend to the Cabinet that the guaranteed minimum wage levied in the non-permanent ports be funded from the charges made under the Stevedoring Charges Act. This means that all ports, permanent and non-permanent, will contribute to the minimum wage payments made in the smaller ports. 
No, you cannot ask anything. This will have a very substantial effect on the viability of some of these ports. For example, in Portland the guaranteed minimum wage levy will be reduced from $1.15 a man hour to about 2c or 3c a man hour. 
Now we have a cry -Hear, hear' from the honourable member who presided over the decision of Cabinet to destroy the smaller ports by the introduction of the former legislation which placed the full responsibility for maintaining these smaller ports in the hands of the employers concerned. Here is the guilty man sitting at the table, the honourable member for Wannon. He was responsibile for the situation that we are in now. Not one word did he utter in this Parliament in protest against the Government's action. Not one question did he ask while he was a private member in this Parliament about the future of Portland. He had 2 spells as a private member - one before his dismissal as a Minister and another during the interregnum till he got back into the Cabinet as the Minister for Defence. On not one occasion did he make any attempt to raise this in the Parliament, so meagre was his interest in the port of Portland. And if it were not for the fact that we have a State election in Victoria his interest now would be no more than it was then. 
All the non-permanent ports will be advantaged by the change as this levy of 2c or 3c a man hour will be uniform. Only Geelong, whose levy has fallen to 2c now, will not gain by the change but neither will it suffer by the change. I believe that this recommendation represents a far better solution to the problem of the non-permanent ports than those which have been advocated by the honourable member for Wannon or by the Victorian Government. It is the solution advocated by  Mr Bill  Lewis, the member for Portland in the Victorian Parliament, who has been indefatigable in his representations to me on this matter. Every day since this dispute occurred  Mr Lewis  has been in touch with me and my office. Every day I have given him a running account of how the negotiations are proceeding and noone could have taken a greater interest in the affairs of the port of Portland than  Mr Lewis.  The only time I have heard from the honourable member for Wannon was when he twice got up in this Parliament and gazed up at the Press hoping that it would report him for the purposes of his local paper. Beyond that not a scintilla of interest did he show in the whole Portland dispute. 
I believe we have the right solution. It was the inability of the honourable member for 
Wannon to understand the working of the levy system which led to his quite erroneous and unworthy accusation that a deal had been done between the AEWL, the Waterside Workers Federation and the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the parties to the Stevedoring Industry Council. In fact, he showed so little knowledge of the industry that my informants advise me that when he was dealing with this matter in another place he made such a fool of himself that the Honourable Murray Byrne had to call him to one side and explain to him what it was all about. Even the Honourable Murray Byrne laughed about it. I do not know whether the Honourable Murray Byrne is a member of the Country Party or the Liberal Party but he was almost beside himself with mirth at the lack of interest which the honourable member for Wannon displayed when he was called upon to pontificate on the disputes at Portland. The honourable member for Wannon tabled in Parliament on 28th March a letter to  Mr Murray  Byrne from the Executive Director of the AEWL,  Mr Craig,  in which  Mr Craig  said that at a Stevedoring Industry Council meeting on Friday, 16th March, 'an arrangement whereby some casual out-ports were subsidising others was rejected entirely by the parties to the discussions, including the Waterside Workers Federation and the ACTU on the grounds that it was improper for some small ports which may well have problems of their own to be forced to carry additional costs to maintain another port or ports'. 
The honourable member for Wannon implied that this was a conspiracy but I believe that the Council was quite correct in rejecting a scheme of cross-subsidisation between out-ports - that is, temporary ports - just as it was quite proper to recommend a scheme of cross-subsidisation which would involve the permanent ports. That is just another example of the disregard of the facts by the honourable member for Wannon. 1 believe a solution of this kind justifies the 4 weeks time between the AEWL's change and this announcement during which we have examined the possibilities within my Department. After 23 years of inaction by the former Government, of which the honourable member for Wannon was a member, my Government and my Department in the short space of 4 weeks has been able to come up With a solution which will, providing the State 
Government does its part - and I emphasise that provision - bring a solution to the problems of the port of Portland. 
I turn now to the report on Portland prepared by  Mr Foster  and other officers of my Department. Although the report has been prepared very quickly in response to the urgency of Portland's problems, I believe it makes a profoundly important contribution to the future of smaller ports generally. The report makes it quite clear, as I have already pointed out in my letter to  Mr Byrne,  that the viability of smaller ports like Portland will not, in the end, be judged by the nature of the levying arrangements for the guaranteed minimum wage. The causes of Portland's decline go far deeper and quite beyond the ambit of my portfolio. There is, however, a great deal that the Victorian Government, which has attacked me with such ferocity over this issue, could do to ensure Portland's future. My Department's report concludes in the following manner: 
Having considered a wide range of views, examined submissions and documentation together with (he results of inspections at Portland, the following matters are noted. 
The port faces a number of problems which threaten its viability. They include trends toward centralisation and containerisation, seasonal factors and special overseas customer requirements. These have not occurred suddenly (except perhaps for seasonal factors) but have been evident for several years. 
Although the Victorian Government has espoused the development of Portland as an example of decentralisation, a pattern of trade and transport has been allowed to develop which has resulted in cargoes by-passing Portland in favour of Melbourne and Geelong. These developments, depending as they do on road and rail transport, lie within the  power  of the State Government  to  correct. 
The introduction of the changed levy arrangements has caused considerable concern in Portland. This concern was exacerbated by what was seen as a cavalier attitude on the part of the AEWL whereby interested parties were denied an opportunity to express a viewpoint on this matter prior to changes being made. The change in levy arrangements was seen as a fundamental departure from the established practice of uniform levies, and not merely an increase in the rate. It was interpreted by some parties that smaller ports such as Portland were being deliberately driven out of existence. In this context, the view was put that the AEWL represents shipping companies and was subject to control and direction by overseas shipping interests to this end. 
Having regard to suggestions that the former basis of funding the guaranteed wage should be restored, it is clear that the pattern of cargoes moving through Portland developed under the  old  basis of funding when a uniform rate of levy was applicable. It follows then that reverting to the former basis of funding will do nothing to encourage the future balanced growth of the Port. 
It was suggested that the establishment of a container facility for roll-on roll-off vessels should be given consideration as a first step in a co-ordinated approach to ensuring the future of the port. In view of the declining pattern in non-bulk cargoes, and existing competition from road/rail transport, such a step could only be justified if suitable action were taken by State and local authorities to ensure a worthwhile volume of cargoes being available for shipment. 
Future employment arrangements for waterside workers in small ports (including Portland) were the subject of a communication from the Minister for Labour to the Stevedoring Industry Council on 23rd February 1973. The Minister sought the Council's .consideration of this whole area and such an examination by this forum would give the Minister guidance as to the future of small ports and place the labour aspects of this matter in the proper perspective. (n other words, the report notes that a change to the minimum wage levy will not save Portland. Its vitality depends on action by the Victorian State Government. Without that, nothing that we can do by way of levies will provide a cure for the problems of Portland. Figures within the report sustain the argument that Portland's decline began long before 5th March when the employers' organisation decided to increase the charges. For example, in the financial year 1967-68, 63,942 bales of wool were shipped from Portland. This represented 38.98 per cent of the bales sold in Portland. 
That is what I am trying to find out. I do not know whether he sells all his wool through the Portland wool stores. I do know that there was one time when, according to reports - I do not know whether they are true and I cannot vouch for them but the honourable member will tell us later - he shipped his wool direct to the London wool stores. He did not worry about the Portland wool sales. I do not know whether that report is correct but he has friends in London and he knows more about London than he does about Portland so he probably decided to do that. By the financial year 1971-72 only 5,309 bales were shipped from Portland. This represented 2.24 per cent of the wool sold. A similar situation is reflected in the export of dairy products from Portland. 1 do not know whether the honour able member for Wannon also milks cows but if he does he might be able to explain how these figures came about. In 1967-68, 11.410 tons of dairy products were exported through Portland. In 1971-72, 5,930 tons were shipped. As the report notes: 
It would seem that rail and road transport organisations have been able to apply policies which have operated to oppose the Victorian Government's announced policy of decentralising trade at Portland. lt is for that reason that the report says that it is:  . . unlikely that a reversion to the former funding arrangements will have any significant effect in developing trade through the port. 
The Government has decided not to revert to the former funding arrangement, but even the new and generous arrangements which I now recommend to Cabinet will have insufficient effect on stevedoring costs to save Portland without rapid action from the Victorian Government of the kind referred to in the report. 
I place on public record my appreciation of the tremendous interest of and the great help I have received from  Senator Primmer  in this matter. He has given a great deal of his time to this subject and, like the local State member,  Mr Bill  Lewis, M.P., has been in daily contact with me to ask that my Department indicate clearly what it proposes to do in this matter. I have now done that, but I repeat that if the Victorian Liberal Government does not get off its backside and do something about it the port of Portland will be doomed no matter what the Australian Government does. The port of Portland will not survive if the Liberal Government of Victoria pays special concession freights to take the wool and other materials that normally would be shipped through Portland down to Melbourne for shipping. We will not get the best out of Portland if the Victorian Liberal Government does not do something about the roll-on rolloff facilities that must be introduced into Portland. We need stern loading also in Portland if we are to get the best out of the port. lt is a good port. I believe it has a draft of something like 70 feet. It is one of the deepest ports - if not the deepest, very nearly the deepest - between Melbourne and Fremantle. As I say, it is a good port, lt does not deserve to languish and it does not deserve the shocking treatment and neglect which the former Government demonstrated towards it when that Government had the opportunity to do something positive to save the port from the disaster that is now overtaking it. I present the following paper: 
Guaranteed Minimum Wage Levy for NonPermanent Ports- Ministerial Statement, 3rd April 1973.  and move: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Suspension of Standing Orders 
Motion (by  Mr Clyde  Cameron) - by leave - agreed to: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Wannon speaking for a period not exceeding 30 minutes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The New South Wales State Industrial Commission's main findings were that: 
it rejected the employers' submission that there could be no ground for a reduction in working hours unless it was common throughout the electricity supply industry; 
it would be proper to support a shorter working week if special circumstances applied to a particular industry; 
there have been enormous changes In the electricity supply industry, resulting in increased efficiency, since 19S2. 
almost half of all employees in the industry belong to the Salaried Division; &lt;e) the electricity generation sector of the industry is the most capital intensive of all industries; 
during the year 1971 alone the Electricity Commission extracted from charges no less than $48m towards capital expenditure; 
8,354 persons employed in the electricity supply industry already work less than 40 hours a week, and that 5,971 of these work a 35-hour week and 2,296 work a 36i-hour week. 
there are 2 subsidy schemes in operation which are designed to assist country Electricity Councils to pursue a policy of rural dec.trification which are financed from charges made to city consumers; 
most of the Electricity Commission's employees work only a small amount of overtime and the average weekly overtime paid to employees of Electricity Councils is substantially lower than the average overtime paid in all other industries in Australia; 
the 35-hours a week employees of the Electricity Commission work a nett 35 hours; 
the effective daily working hours of field crews are as low as 5 or 6; 
the differentiation between the ordinary hours of 40 hours per week for the predominantly manual workers and the ordinary hours of 35 hours a week for the predominantly professional administrative and clerical group is paralleled in the United Kingdom where the National Board for Prices and Incomes described it as 'the result of an historical accident'; 
the awards covering employees in the industry provide the same hours as the awards covering employees in more labour intensive industries; 
'It is an indubitable and uncontested fact' that the industry has demonstrated a capacity to improve its productivity and efficiency in terms of the number of units produced and distributed compared with the number of persons employed; 
advances in and the utilisation of the latest technology are the most important contributing factors to the increased productivity and efficiency in the industry and that the growth of the economy and the consequential increase in sales of electricity are yet another factor in increased productivity; 
employees' willingness to transfer from the older power stations to other establishments does not assist their case for a shorter working week; 
the fact that a particular industry has a special economic capacity is an irrelevant factor in according its employees a shorter working week; 
the benefits of increased productivity itself from utilisation of advanced technology belong to the community to be shared by all for the general good; 
productivity gains belong to the community as a whole and not to a particular group of employees (or, presumably, employers); 
it could not assert any sound logical justification for the widespread differentiation which exists between the hours of manual and nonmanual workers; 
the shorter week should apply to all employees in all industries or not at all; 
no firm conclusion was reached on the costs and prices of a shorter working week; 
outer employers would lose tradesmen to the electricity industry if a 35-hour week were introduced into that industry; 
a 35-hour week would provide work for additional employees in the electricity industry in New South Wales, and that it is unlikely that the number would be obtained; 
there would be a loss of productivity by other industries which lost the benefits of the work done by those transferred to the electricity industry; 
increased prices for electricity could cause the present consumers to change to diesel fuel, fuel oil, liquified gas, etc. and it could also adversely affect the subsidy scheme for country areas; (aa) because of the foregoing conclusions there were no grounds for a shorter working week in the electricity supply industry but that if there were any prospect of redundancy in the industry, it would have paid serious attention to it. 
The Commission made its report on the basis of whether special circumstances distinguished the work performed by the Wages Division rather than on the special circumstances of the industry itself. 
The Commission's findings appear to merely reflect the status quo rather than provide a design fur progress. The findings were partly influenced by tho working hours operating in foreign countries and by the standards set by the International Labour Organisation which are designed to uplift working conditions for the emerging countries of Africa, Asia and South America and for territories like Papua and New Guinea and the colonial possessions of Portugal. 
(a) Pursuant to the provision of section 35 (1) (o) of the New South Wales Industrial Arbitration Act, the Commission was asked to consider and report upon the following matters: 
The terms and conditions of employment of persons employed in the electricity supply industry, that is, the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity in New South Wales; and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, whether there are any grounds for a reduction in the ordinary working hours or ordinary working days of persons now working a 40-hour week in the said industry; and, if there were a reduction in such working hours or working days, on the economic effects which would result from such reduction'. 
Over 100. 
(i) 3rd August 1971. (ii) 25th September 1972. 
Yes. 
and (5) It would not be proper for me to comment on the findings of a State industrial tribunal. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member, having preceded me in the Ministry, should be aware that my Department's published Monthly Reviews of the Employment Situation provide detailed information on the numbers of registered unemployed and vacancies in each State and in each non-metropolitan district office. This information is also provided in respect of broad occupational categories for each State. The published data throw considerable light on the extent of labour shortages or surpluses in particular States and areas. I accept, however, that additional analysis of CES information is required for detailed manpower and regional policies 2 areas which were neglected by the previous Government. As the honourable member knows, my Department has set up an advisory committee to examine, inter alia, the statistical requirements for a comprehensive manpower policy so that Government action could be taken where necessary to offset a situation of labour shortage or surplus in particular areas and occupations. 
I am advised that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (la) Figures of the total number of inquiries made to the Commonwealth Employment Service are not available as no record is kept of telephone calls. The figures shown below relate to the total number of persons who registered with the CES for employment assistance during 1972 and to the number of people who called seeking advice or information. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill proposes an increase in the statutory maximum rate of charge which can be imposed on the employment of class A waterside workers. The Stevedoring Industry Charge Assessment Act 1947-1971 provides for the assessment and collection of the Stevedoring Industry charge at rates prescribed by regulation under the Stevedoring Industry Charge Act. Different rates are payable in respect of the classes of waterside workers. Class A waterside workers are registered regular waterside workers employed on weekly hire at permanent or continuous ports. Class B waterside workers are employed at continuous non-permanent ports. Class C waterside workers are those employed at noncontinuous ports and include irregular waterside workers on Part B of the register at all ports. 
The Stevedoring Industry Charge Act limits the rate of the charge payable in respect of the employment of these three classes of waterside workers as defined in the Stevedoring Industry Charge Assessment Act. The maximum rates of charge under the Stevedoring Industry Charge Act are $1 per manhour, $1.75 per man-hour and $1.20 per man-hour for A, B, and C classes respectively. The actual rate charged within these maximums is fixed by regulation and, in the case of class A waterside workers, the rate charged is now at the maximum. 
The purpose of the Stevedoring Industry Charge Bill 1973 is to amend the Stevedoring Industry Charge Act 1947-1971 to permit the charge to be imposed at rates up to $1.50 per man-hour for class A waterside workers. The amendment is necessary because the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority has found itself unable to meet its financial commitments with regard to class A waterside workers from the charge revenue. An increase is now needed because of changes that have occurred in wage rates and conditions of employment and because of further increases which will affect the level of payments to be made by the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority in respect of long service leave and idle time. 1 am pleased to be able to inform the House that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has authorised me to announce that part of the increase in the levy will be attributable to new funding arrangements for the guaranteed minimum wage in non-permanent ports. These payments, formerly funded by the employers through a levy applicable only to non-permanent ports, will now be funded through the general industry levy applicable to all ports. It is not known just how much will be needed to fund these ports. Estimates vary from as little as 3c as at the beginning of the year to as much as 10c, being the amount which it is anticipated might be needed in the event of there being increased wage rates or other increased charges upon the fund. In the circumstances, the Government believes that the proper course to follow at this stage is to increase the charge in the way outlined. This amendment will not in itself vary the present rate of the charge. The actual rate of charge, as I said before, is fixed by regulation and any alteration is made after considering a recommendation from the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. I have much pleasure in commending the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr  Bonnett) adjourned. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Absenteeism. Studies conducted by my Department on absence from work in Australia have indicated that considerable differences occur in levels of absence between firms and between industry and occupational groups. For example, a survey of 186 firms carried out for the months of August and September 1966, found absence rates ranging from 2.3 per cent to S.8 per cent, with an average of 4.2 per cent of total work-hours rostered. For statistical reasons entirely reliable conclusions cannot be drawn from these figures about absence in the Australian workforce as a whole. However, a rough approximation can be arrived at by applying the average figure of 4.2 per cent to the total workforce, so obtaining a figure of ten thousand workdays lost through absence per 1,000 employees each year. Statistics available on absence do not permit the requested international comparisons to be made. (b)Industrial Accidents. A Working Party set up by the Commonwealth and State Departments of Labour has estimated that, for the years 1967-68 and 1968-69, disabling injuries causing one or more days' absence from work were occurring at the approximate rate of 40 per million man-hours worked, or approximately 80 per 1,000 employees per year. 
No detailed estimates have been made for other years. However, there are strong indications that in all States and in Commonwealth employment there is a slight but perceptible decrease in the number of injuries in relation to the workforce. 
Injury rates have been quoted by some major industrial countries but differences in the bases of reporting and in methods of collection make any comparisons extremely unreliable. 
Strikes. The table below (based on information supplied by the International Labour Office) shows the number of days lost through industrial disputes per 1,000 persons employed in a number of countries, from 1966 to 1971. The industries covered are mining, manufacturing, construction and transport. As the definitions used for these statistics vary from country to country too much significance should not be attached to relatively small differences in the figures. The information was published in the October 1972 issue of the United Kingdom Department of Employment Gazette. 
 I am advised that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
An amount of $29,922 was expended on advertising by the Commonwealth Employment Service in 1972. 
 The Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following information in reply to the honourable member's question: 
Annual national accounts estimates for Australia are published for financial years ending June, and the table has been prepared accordingly. 
 The Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following information in reply to the honourable member's question: 
The following table has been calculated by dividing gross non-farm product and its major cost components by gross non-farm product at constant (average 1966-67) prices and then calculating the year to year percentage changes in the resulting ratios. The cost components are described in the answer to question No. 45. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The detailed information sought by the honourable member is not available in a readily accessible form. Its extraction from the records would require the expenditure of greater staff resources than could be justified since details of decisions and orders of Federal industrial tribunals including those relating to wages and salaries and to hours of work are published in the Industrial Information Bulletin. The publication of the Bulletin, as the honourable member will be aware, has fallen behind schedule but steps have been taken to rectify this. If the honourable member requested the information in order to assess trends in movements in wages and salaries I refer him to information on weekly wage rates published by the Commonwealth Statistician. At the end of December 1972. the latest period for which information is currently available, the weighted average minimum weekly rates payable to adult males for a full week's work (excluding overtime) as prescribed in Federal awards, determinations and collective agreements was $65.80 which represented an increase of 12c or .18 per cent on the weighted average at the end of the previous month. Comparable information for adult females is not available but the weighted average minimum weekly rate payable to adult females as prescribed in Federal and State awards, determinations and collective agreements was $51.58 at the end of December 1972 which represented an increase of 17c or .33 per cent on the weighted average at the end of the previous month. 
1 am not aware of any adjustments to standard hours of work prescribed in Federal awards since 4th December 1972. 
Television Programme: 'A Current Affair' (Question No. 324) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
No, but If any information comes to my notice I shall advise the honourable member. 
I have received numerous representations from craft unions supporting the concept of flat rate increases to the national wage. 
I know of no such organisation. 
in reply - I thank the Opposition for the co-operation it has shown in this matter. Further, I thank members of the Opposition for the thoughtful contributions they have made to the debate. The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  touched upon a terribly important point when he said that our aim should be to prevent industrial accidents and disease rather than to ignore these matters and to go on increasing the amount of compensation paid to injured employees. In other words, we have to think in terms of human suffering rather than trying to compensate for it. We have to try to eliminate accidents and disease. The honourable gentleman was absolutely correct when he drew attention to this aspect of the Bill. I am sure that he is right when he says that anything the Government does to try to eliminate industrial accidents and disease will have the wholehearted support of the Australian people. I know that this aim has the support of every Party and every member of the Parliament. 
I will be introducing shortly, perhaps towards the end of this year, a Bill to provide for a uniform code for the prevention of industrial accidents and disease. The dearest wish of all of us is to prevent industrial accidents and disease. It is no help for employers, insurance companies, union secretaries or anyone else saying it is not possible to reduce the incidence of industrial accidents and disease. It can be reduced. Whatever anyone might say about the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and whatever criticism may be levelled at the economic and perhaps industrial power that company exerts, no-one can deny that BHP has set a magnificent example in Australia in showing just how much can be done to prevent industrial accidents. Over the last IS years in the Australian iron and steel industry, which is one of the most dangerous industries in Australia, BHP, through diligence and through applying itself to the task, has been able to reduce the incidence of industrial accidents in its iron and steel plant by no less than 93 per cent. This is a magnificent record. The Wiltshire File Company, which is now owned by BHP, has reduced the incidence of industrial accident in its plant by about the same degree. 
Ordinary steel files - nail files, wood files, steel files and all that kind of thing. They do not make Australian Security Intelligence Organisation files. One has to go to  Senator Murphy  or to  Senator Greenwood  to get those sorts of files. But this firm makes all the other kinds of files. 
I was recently at the Kwinana steel works and I was tremendously impressed by what I saw when I chanced to drop in upon a meeting of the safety officers of that company. I was absolutely astounded when I learnt that the company had now completed three million man-hours without losing one single day through industrial accidents. This can be done. We are losing $ 1,000m worth of production each year because of industrial accidents. As the honourable members for 
Maranoa has correctly pointed out, the proper thing to do is to see that industrial accidents are reduced and, if possible, eliminated. The Commonwealth ought to be setting the example. At the moment the Commonwealth does not have even a uniform code of industrial safety within its own departments and it does very little, I am ashamed to admit, to enforce a code of industrial safety. The Commonwealth makes not one-tenth of the effort that BHP makes to prevent industrial accidents. This situation will be rectified within the next year at the very latest. 
The Australian Workers Union is a union about which I do not know very much. 
The honourable member for Maranoa raised a proper point when he asked what the proposed benefits would cost, and I compliment him for turning his attention to this matter. I admit that I was remiss in not mentioning what the cost would be. But  Senator Greenwood,  whose mind seemed to be running along the' same lines as that of the honourable gentleman on this matter, asked  Senator Douglas  McClelland, who represents the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  in the Senate, on 28th March of this year what would be an estimate of the additional cost of benefits provided for in the current amendments now before the House. The reply was that the additional cost should amount to about $2,700,000 per year for all of the Commonwealth's employees and for employees working for Commonwealth agencies and instrumentalities. The amount is really not as much as that because once employees become entitled to the benefits of this Bill they would not be entitled to social service benefits. So that amount would be subtracted. In addition, employees would have to continue to pay ordinary income tax. Therefore the cost would not be as great as that. At its worst the cost would be $2,700,000. 
I think the strong point of the case presented by the honourable member for Maranoa was that we ought to be aiming at the elimination of industrial accidents. He is absolutely right because this is what we ought to be doing. If we can do this - and we must do it  -  the cost will be nowhere near the figure of $2,700,000. I conclude my remarks by thanking the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  for the co-operation that he has given in this matter. This is an urgent and important Bill and it represents a great step forward. The passing of this legislation will mean that Australia will have moved to the front in the field of compensation. No longer will we be able to point to Bulgaria, Yugoslavia and the Soviet Union and say that these are the countries that are leading the world in workers compensation. We have now taken the lead. No other country in the world has a system of workers compensation to compare with ours. This is a very proud position for us to take. 
Before concluding my remarks I want to pay proper attention to what the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  did when last year as Minister for Social Services he introduced legislation which for the first time gave Commonwealth employees full pay for a period of 26 weeks. The legislation we are now considering extends the length of time beyond 26 weeks. The great majority of people who are affected by injuries at work usually recover by 26 weeks after which they are back at work again. However, I think it would be remiss of me not to express my appreciation of what the honourable member for Mackellar did last year when he was Minister for Social Services. As I said, this legislation will take the benefits a bit further. At any rate, Australia is now in the forefront. We are leading the world and it is a proud position for Australia to be able to claim. I am very proud that this Bill - this great advance - is to go through with the full co-operation of all parties in the Parliament, and for that I am grateful. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 6 - by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 7. 
Section 25 of the Principal Act is amended  by  inserting after sub-section (11) the following subsection: - (11a) If an employee causes to be furnished to the Commissioner a statutory declaration by him stating that a specified amount was. or specified amounts were, earned by him from employment during a specified  period, that declaration is prima facie evidence that that amount was, or those amounts were, so earned by him.'. 
I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause:  *7.  Section 25 of the Principal Act is amended - 
by omitting from sub-section (2) the words "is intermittent or"; 
by omitting sub-section (9) and substituting the following sub-sections: "(9) Subject to the following provisions of this section, if the minimum amount per week payable to the employee in respect of the employment by the Commonwealth in which he was engaged at the date of the injury is increased, or would if he had continued in that employment have been increased, by reason of - 
the attainment by the employee of  a  particular age; 
the completion by the employee of  a  particular period of service; or 
the receipt by the employee of an increase in salary, wages or pay by way of an increment in a range of salary, wages or pay applicable to him or to the office, position or appointment held by him,  a  reference in this Part to the average weekly earnings of the employee before the injury shall be read as a reference to the amount that is, by virtue of the foregoing provisions of this section, to be taken to be the amount of those average weekly earnings, increased by the same percentage as the percentage by which the minimum amount per week is increased, or would have been increased, as the case may be. "(9a) Subject to the following provisions of this section, if the employee continues after the date of the injury to be employed by the Commonwealth and the minimum amount per week payable to the employee in respect of that employment is increased by reason of the promotion of the employee, a reference In this Part to the average weekly earnings of the employee before the injury shall be read as a reference to the amount that is, by virtue of the foregoing provisions of this section, to be taken to be the amount of those average weekly earnings, increased by the same percentage as the percentage by which the rninimum amount per week payable to the employee is increased by reason of that promotion."; 
by omitting from sub-section (10) the words "Subject to the next succeeding sub-section" and substituting the words "Subject to the following provisions of this section"; and 
by inserting after sub-section (11) the following sub-sections: "(Ha) Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing provisions of this section, if the amount of the average weekly earnings of an employee before the injury as calculated in accordance with those provisions would, but for this subsection, exceed - 
in the case of an employee who continues to be employed by the Common wealth - the amount per week of the earnings that the employee would receive if the employee were not totally or partially incapacitated for work; or (b) in the case of an employee whose employment by the Commonwealth has ceased by reason of his death or otherwise 7 
the amount per week of the earnings that the employee would receive if the employee had continued to be employed by the Commonwealth in the employment in which he was engaged at the date of the injury; or 00 the amount per week of the earnings that the employee would receive if the employee had continued to be employed by the Commonwealth in the employment in which he was engaged at the date when his employment by the Commonwealth ceased, whichever is the greater, the amount so calculated shall be deemed to be reduced by the amount of the excess. "(11b) If an employee causes to be furnished to the Commissioner a statutory declaration by him stating that a specified amount was, or specified amounts were, earned by him from employment during a specified period, that declaration is prima facie evidence that that amount was, or those amounts were, so earned by him.".'. 
I have conferred with the spokesmen for the Country Party and the Liberal Party on this matter. They are both in agreement with the amendment and understand it. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. . 
 Clauses 8 to 36 - by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
The Schedule. 
The following provisions of the Principal Act are amended by omitting the words 'of this Act', 'of this Part' and 'of this section' (wherever occurring): 
Sections 2 (1), 5 (1) (definitions of 'Compensation Tribunal', 'employee', 'the Commissioner', and 'the proclaimed date"), 5(8) and (10), 6, 8(2) (b), (c) and (d), 8(4)(b) and (c), 19(4), 23 (3), 25(6), (7) and (9), 27(3),32(3) and (4), 33(1) and (3) (a), 34, 35, 37(5), (6) and (9), 49(3), 51(3) and (4), 52(3), 53(3), 54, 55 (3) (a) and (4), 57(3), 58(1) (a) and (5), 60 (4), 61 (3), (4) and (5), 62 (2), 63 (1), (2), (5), (6), (7) and (8), 72, 74(4), 76(5), 78, 85(5) and (7), 89(e), 92(1) and (2), 97(c), 100(3) (a) and (5), 101(3), 102(1), (2) and (5), 103(5), (6) and (7), 104(3), (6), (9), (10), (11), (12) and (14), 105(2), 107(1), (8) and (9), 108(2) and (3) and 117(3) and (4). 
Amendment (by  Mr Clyde  Cameron) agreed to: 
Omit from paragraph 1 the figures and word 25 (6), (7) and (9)' substitute '25 (6) and (7)'. 
Schedule, as amended, agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report - by leave - adopted. 
That was said by the present Deputy Leader of the Opposition last year in his capacity as Minister for Labour and National Service. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)There is no substance in the point of order. It is not within the province of the Chair to do that any more than it would be for the Chair to draw attention to the fact that there are so few members of the Opposition in the House at the moment. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is the first stage of a radical transformation of industrial relations in Australia. Later stages of this transformation will involve an examination of all aspects of industrial relations in Australia by a special committee of inquiry to ensure that policies and procedures for handling labour relations will be suitable for our needs over the next decade or so. This will take us far beyond a mere examination of the law on conciliation and arbitration. I intend to divide this examination into 2 parts. The first will deal with the quality of work in Australia and the second - a much larger and longer inquiry - will make an in-depth study of the institutional framework of labour relations. 
The committee will report on the need for constitutional reform including the delineation of Federal and State jurisdiction in labour relations and the limitations of Commonwealth power. It will examine the functioning of the conciliation and arbitration system including the workings of the Act, the desirability of experimenting with new forms of agreements like productivity agreements, whether there is any role for voluntary mediation or conciliation committees and what ground rules could be evolved for collective bargaining in Australia. It will examine the needs of .trade union and employer organisations in Australia, the need for amalgamations, for trade union education and for closer consultation between unions, employers and government. 
It will examine plant level relationships, including the need for worker participation, the role of shop stewards and shop committees and the concept of works' councils. It will examine wages and working conditions for employees in Australia, including wage concepts, the changing relationship between the poorly paid and the highly paid, the role of the national wage case and other cases setting national standards on matters such as hours, leave and equal pay. In all these studies the Government's aim will be to create conditions for the achievement of social justice and industrial harmony. As honourable members know, the Australian Parliament has only limited authority to make laws to regulate labour relations. The Australian Constitution limits this Parliament's jurisdiction to interstate industrial disputes. In the courts, by resort to fiction and technicality, a fairly wide ambit has been given to this phrase. There is a limit, however, beyond which plain words cannot be stretched even by the ingenuity of lawyers. 
Constitutional Limitations 
Labor believes that ultimately there will have to be an expansion of Commonwealth power in the field of industrial relations because, to quote from our Party's platform, to allow the Commonwealth power to deal with industrial matters to remain in its present form is like expecting to control modern motor traffic with laws taken from the horse and buggy days'. It is the task of the national Parliament to create labour relations which meet and match the needs of the community and which will anticipate and overcome obstacles to justice and common sense in industrial relations. 
However, the question of increased Commonwealth power is one we must postpone for later consideration. Our immediate aim is to give effect to those aspects of industrial policy which can be dealt with within the rather limited area of power granted by the Constitution. Therefore, this Bill will pass into law a number of proposals contained in the Prime Minister's policy speech originating in the Australian Labor Parry's Federal platform. In addition, this Bill will correct a number of defects arising from the set of amendments made by the former Government. 
In 1904 the founders of compulsory arbitration in Australia embarked on a novel, and what must have then appeared to be, a rather bold social experiment. Many of the problems which have arisen in the past 70 years could not have been foreseen at the time of Federation. The next generation of Australians will look back on the experience of compulsory arbitration to this date as a necessary prelude to a more systematic solution of the problems of industrial relations and employment. On the whole, compulsory arbitration has served a useful purpose. The central position of power occupied by the tribunals, however, could never have been attained or maintained without popular approval and especially without the support of the trade union movement. 
In recent years, however, many large employers as well as the great mass of union members have become impatient with the penal aspects of the federal system. As unions and employers become better organised, as their research facilities grow and as they become more aware of the advantages of negotiation and the disadvantages of remaining passive clients of an arbitration commission, so will the acceptability of the Commission's penal powers diminish and the area of its influence as a arbitral body contract. Important industries are now becoming the scene of negotiated agreements. For some years now we have been witnessing a fundamental change in the work of the Commission. Increasingly the Commission relies upon procedures of negotiation and conciliation; less and less does it invoke its authority to arbitrate. 
This Government will not abolish conciliation and arbitration; it will reconstruct it and strengthen it to eliminate features repugnant to harmony and good relations in industry and thus set it on a course not requiring constant correction by legislation as we have seen since 1949. The system has been jerry-built over the years. Indeed, the Act has been affected by no fewer than 29 separate amending Acts in the last 23 years of LiberalCountry Party government. Some of these were machinery matters such as judicial salaries, but some were major amendments such as the provision of strike penalties, the separation of judicial functions from the arbitral functions and the separation of conciliation processes from those of arbitration. 
A Clear Mandate 
As I said earlier, the Government has a clear mandate for the changes it intends to make. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  in his policy speech, said that the strength of multi-national corporations in the Australian economy requires strong unions as well as strong government. He said that Labor would facilitate the amalgamation of trade unions. It would reduce government interference in industrial relations, put conciliation back into arbitration and abolish the penal clauses. The Prime Minister was speaking on the authority of the decisions of the 29th Commonwealth Conference of the Australian Labor Party held in Launceston in 1971. The program adopted at that Conference has been given the widest possible publicity. The Party's policy statement has been circulated throughout the nation. In speeches I made as shadow Minister for Labour in the 18 months preceding the elections, in the Parliament and at seminars and conferences throughout the Commonwealth, I stated and explained our policies. Our intentions were fully discussed in the election campaign. We can, therefore, fairly claim to have a clear mandate for what is proposed in this Bill. 
The Bill provides for a number of major changes. They are: The removal of existing barriers to trade union amalgamation; the protection of organisations and their members from civil actions for tort in connection with industrial disputes; the removal of the Commission's authority to ban strikes and the removal of all penal sanctions upon strikers; procedures to ensure that certain types of agreement are acceptable to members of organisations affected by them; provision for democratic control of unions and the fullest participation by union members in the affairs of their organisations; provision to enable action to be taken for the recovery of wages at law within a period of 6 years instead of the 12 months' limitation that now applies; the removal of the various defects which have been shown to exist in the 1972 legislation; elimination of the power to award costs in proceedings before the courts, the Registrar or the Commission; and provision to overcome some of the problems created by the Moore v. Doyle case. 
Union Amalgamation 
This Government rests upon the goodwill of the mass of ordinary working people, their wives and their families. It is determined to keep in proper check those gigantic forces of capital, privilege and power that penetrate the lives of the community at every point. Both the Government and the people need the organised strength of the working people gathered together in strong, effective and responsible trade unions. We plan, therefore, to encourage the amalgamation of trade unions. The trend to amalgamation has accelerated in the last few years. Honourable members will be interested to recall figures supplied by the Commonwealth Statistician through the then Minister for Labour and National Service regarding the size of trade unions in Australia at the end of December 1970. He reported that there were 305 separate trade unions in Australia. Of the 305 unions, 152 had less than 1,000 members; another 96 had between 1,000 and 5,000 members; 34 between 5,000 and 20,000; 19 between 20,000 and 50,000; and only 14 with a membership of over 50,000. In West Germany, with a population much larger than Australia - 61 million to be precise - there is a total of only 16 unions, one of which, the Metal Workers Union, has a total membership of 2,070,000. 
Grave defects attend this dispersal of working people throughout such a large number of separate organisations. There is unnecessary duplication of work. Salaries paid to officials of great energy, dedication and talent are low and unattractive, and discourage men of quality from making the sacrifices that a career as a trade union official often involves. The population base from which the leaders are drawn is often small. Demarcation disputes concerned with protecting the revenue and membership of a union threatened with loss of coverage by encroachments of other unions are a common occurrence in this country. Too much time is lost through disputes over which unions should handle a certain job. The mobility of trade union officials from office to office is sometimes restricted by rules which require officials to be drawn from among longstanding union members only. 
The cost of libraries and research staff - essential for good quality industrial leadership - is frequently beyond the resources of small unions. Even the cost of assembling the members and officials in conference is too much for some unions frequently to bear. Discussion and policy making in tune with the needs of the members always suffer when the members and their leaders cannot frequently consult each other. Employers and the organisations that represent them do not suffer these handicaps. They draw upon the whole workforce in industry, the Public Service and the universities for people to represent and uphold their industrial interests. They enjoy the rapid gathering and dissemination of information relevant to their cause. 
Research staff, libraries and independent economic and legal advice are freely acquired whenever needed. 
A strengthening of the resources of the working people in amalgamated trade unions which are possessed of strong, well-trained and well-equipped leaders will redress the present imbalance. Negotiation and conciliation will become more effective in resolving disputes as union leaders become better informed and better trained. We are, therefore, wholly in favour of amalgamation of unions of the working people. At the same time, we insist on democracy in the government of these larger groupings. I endorse what was said by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  in Melbourne on 2nd March 1972. Speaking of amalgamation, he said: 
It is fair to say that provided the membership of industrial organisations does not lose effective control as a result of amalgamations, there are many advantages which can accrue from amalgamation. For instance, there are some 300 unions in Australia. Most of them are very small. It could facilitate the functioning of the arbitration system and relations generally between employers and unions if this number of unions decreased. I know of situations in which employers have sat across the table withno fewer than15 unions in relation to one issue. Government Departments have had this experience. 
Altogether now, 6 cases have been taken in recent times which involved the use of civil proceedings to obtain damages against unions and union members involved in industrial actions. There is a renewed fear among trade unionists that employers with the aid of the civil courts, will re-introduce a weapon which will turn the history of this country back just as the working people are coming out into the light. 
In England, in 1800, trade unions were illegal. Since that time trade unions in England, and later in Australia, have had to conduct a running battle with the courts and the legislature to emerge from that illegality into the same conditions of freedom enjoyed by the profit making corporations invented by businessmen. Trade unions have consistently sought legal recognition of the fact that by the special nature of their social tasks they are not predators and enemies of society but rather that they are an essential instrument for the protection of the weak and the maintenance of some fair proportion in the distribution of wealth between capital and labour. The trade unions have always argued that the role of the law should be to assist and not to hinder them in this work. 
In the early 1800s the French Revolution caused the English ruling class to have a special fear of organised labour. According to Sidney and Beatrice Webb: 
The first twenty years of the nineteenth century witnessed a legal persecution of the trade unionists  as  rebels and revolutionists. 
All Australians remember that part of our history which refers to the Tolpuddle Martyrs. Six Dorchester labourers, in 1834, who took a union oath at Tolpuddle, who merely spoke short words amongst themselves testifying to their mutual loyalty and did nothing else, were deported to Australia for 7 years. The late  Dr H.  V. Evatt described this whole affair as 'injustice within the law' in his book of that name. 
Acts against the combination of working men were passed on several occasions between the 14th century and 1800. The judges in that period regarded union organisation as criminal conspiracy. An example can be found in the remarks of  Mr Justice  Grose, who in 1796, said: 
As in the case of journeymen conspiring to raise their wages: each may insist on raising wages if he can. but if several meet for the same purpose it is illegal and the parties may be indicted for a conspiracy. 
Conspiracy in law means, among other things, the doing of a lawful act by unlawful means. Thus for instance, an attempt to raise wages is not unlawful in itself, but when it is done in concert, it becomes unlawful because the judges have said that combinations of working men are unlawful. The struggle of the trade unions to overcome these legal handicaps culminated in 1875 in the Conspiracy and Protection of Property Act which provided that in contemplation of furtherance of a trade dispute, no combination to do, or procure, any act should itself be a criminal conspiracy sinless the act itself would be punishable as a crime. Simple conspiracy was henceforth banished from trade disputes as a ground of criminal liability. Criminal liability was not, however, the only legal handicap suffered by the unions. Unions were deemed not to exist under the civil law. Their rules had no worth in the civil courts and doctrines relating to restraint of trade were used to harass the work of trade unions. 
In the case of Hornby v. Close in 1867, a union which sought to prosecute an official who had embezzled funds failed in the prosecution for want of lawful status for the union's rules. '1 do not say', commented  Mr Justice  Blackburn, 'that the objects of this society are criminal. I do not say that they are not. But I am clearly of opinion that the rules referred to are illegal in the sense that they cannot be enforced'. Union rules in Australia are no longer illegal or unenforceable. Union rules, once registered under the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act, carry the full force of the law. 
In 1901, a union in the United Kingdom placed a picket on the premises of an employer where a strike was taking place. The employer sought an injunction to restrain the men from preventing labour from entering his premises but the union argued that since it did not exist in law, it could not be enjoined or sued for damages. The argument failed, the injunction was granted, and the union ultimately fell liable for a very large sum of damages. That was the infamous Taff Vale case of 1901 which was concluded in the House of Lords in 1902. The great trade union agitation which followed the Taff Vale decision finally forced the House of Commons, in 1906, to pass legislation to set aside that piece of judge-made law. The immunity from actions for tort that was granted to British unions by the House of Commons in 1906, is now extended by this Bill to officials and members of Australian trade unions. 
There is nothing novel in what is proposed in this Bill. It is based upon the principles of the British Trade Disputes Act of 1906 which granted unions and union officials in that country exemption from tortious actions committed in furtherance of industrial disputes. What we are proposing is not unique even in Australia. A provision of the nature has existed in Queensland for many decades. Indeed, my opposite number in the Queensland Government, told the recent conference of Commonwealth and State Labour Ministers that the Queensland law had caused no problems in that State. In point of fact, it is only within the last three or four years that we have witnessed attempts in the other States to put life into the remains of an outmoded law that has been resting in the cemetery of English law for 67 years. 
Strike Penalties 
The Government is firmly committed to the abolition of the penal clauses- the criminal sanctions against the working man who withdraws his labour. Its policy is clear. The Prime Minister's mandate is precise. As promised in the Prime Minister's policy speech, the Bill provides for the removal from the Act of all provisions under which a penalty might be imposed upon a trade union or member, because a union is involved in, or threatens a strike, ban or limitation on work. The inclusion of 'bans' clauses in awards and certified agreements is prohibited. If unions wish to submit to the inclusion in an agreement of a bans clause they may do so, but that agreement cannot be certified by the Commission. Furthermore, it will be no longer possible for any penalty to be imposed in respect of any bans' clause which may already exist in an award or a certified agreement. 
Much was said by the Opposition, when in government, to the effect that the existence of sanctions was essential to the functioning of our conciliation and arbitration system. The fallacy of that claim is demonstrated by the fact that the previous Government saw the wisdom of not collecting the fines amounting to $20,700 which had been imposed upon unions under the penal provisions which existed prior to 1970. These fines remain unpaid. It was that Government which, whilst claiming that penalties for award enforcement were absolutely essential, prosecuted for only 5 award breaches in its last 2 years - 5 out of the 24,000 breaches uncovered by its arbitration inspectors. Even under the last Government, the penal provisions against strikes were a dead letter. This Government takes the formal step of removing them from the Act. 
Industrial Agreements 
There are two sensible ways of encouraging the settlement of disputes without stoppages. The first is to encourage the parties to settle their differences by direct negotiation and to give their agreed conclusions the benefits of certification as agreements under the Act. The second is to offer parties the services of professional conciliators employed under the Act to assist them to reach agreement for the making of a consent award. Where agreement proves to be impossible, the Act provides for arbitration of the matters remaining in dispute. In the past, conciliators were given a final power to act as arbitrators if the need arose. But in the 1972 Act the conciliation arbitration functions and the two functions in any one dispute must now be discharged by different persons. 
Grave problems have arisen in the operation of these provisions. The best talent for the one function or the other has not always been wearing the right hat. Parties have sometimes expressed a preference for arbitration to be carried out by the person who attempted to conciliate the differences between the parlies. The work load between commissioners has varied substantially. There has been an increase in internal paper work, and in some cases delay in achieving final settlements. The Government functions were separated completely from the will continue the experiment of the present panel system for the time being, with some separation of conciliation from arbitration in an amended form. The Bill provides that all presidential members and commissioners shall have the power to exercise both conciliation and arbitration functions with the proviso that a member of the Commission who has exercised the function of conciliation may not arbitrate in a particular matter if any party to the proceedings objects. 
As a mark of the Government's promise to reduce the amount of Commonwealth intervention in industrial disputes, the Bill will alter the objects of the Act in such a way as to place greater stress on the provision of ways and means for parties in dispute to reach amicable agreement without outside interference.  (Mr Lynch interjecting.) 
I wish you would keep quiet. You are chirping over there like I do not know what. It seems that you do not understand what I am reading out and you continually harass me by silly little chirps, meaning I do not know what. Would you try to control yourself and listen to what I am putting to the Parliament? I repeat: It is the Government's intention to do everything possible to provide that the terms and conditions of employment of workers be regulated by freely negotiated voluntary agreements and that these agreements be certified and given the full force of an award under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. It is the view, not only of the Government, but also the trade union movement, and I believe, the majority of employer organisations that this procedure is preferable to having conditions arbitrarily imposed on employers and employees. The Bill provides that the Commission shall not ment of an industrial dispute unless the certification of it would cause a major detri.refuse to certify an agreement made in settlement to the public interest. Provision is made also to enable a single member of the Commission to certify agreements which contain matters which have hitherto been reserved to the Full Bench for certification, that is matters such as changes in the standard hours of work, annual leave, and so on. A single member of the Commission, however, will still have the right to refer such an agreement  to  the  President  of the Commission  if  he believes that the issues raised are likely to cause a major detriment to the public interest. In these cases the  President  will determine whether the issue should be considered by a Full Bench. Appeals against agreements and consent awards will be prohibited. 
On the other hand, the Government is concerned to see that where agreements are entered into, they do, in fact, represent the wishes of those members of the organisation, be they trade unions or employer organisations, who are affected by the agreement. In future, no agreement wall be certified unless the member of the Commission is satisfied that the principal terms of the agreement have been approved by the committee of management of each of the organisations and that those terms are acceptable to a majority of the members affected by the agreement. Where the member of the Commission is not so satisfied, he has the right to direct  the  Industrial Registrar to conduct a ballot to ascertain the views of those members of that organisation who are affected by the agreement. In future, no certified agreement may be made for more than  3  years. In future, an agreement will not be continued in existence after its expiration merely by virtue of  the  existing provisions of the Act. However,  it  will be possible to reopen an agreement  by  leave of the Commission or by agreement of the parties during its period of operation. Moreover, it will be possible, and desirable, for parties to a certified agreement to be  free  to begin negotiations for a new agreement before their current agreement expires. 
Participatory Democracy 
Participatory democracy will be an essential ingredient for the proper functioning of the amalgamated unions. As unions become larger, and their governing bodies become more remote from the membership, it will be important to safeguard against the development of bureaucratic relations between the leadership and the rank and file. This Government will encourage the elimination of tendencies that prejudice democratic control of trade unions by assisting rank and file members to bring their grievances over alleged defects in rules and in abuse of rules, to the Commonwealth Industrial Court for examination and, where called for, correction. As well, an officer of the Registry will have the responsibility for giving the Registrar detailed advice on the acceptability of rules, and proposed amendments to rules that are submitted for registration. 
The platform of the Australian Labor Party calls upon the Government to ensure a system of democratic control of all unions, allowing fullest participation by members in their affairs. The Bill makes changes in the conditions of registration of organisations towards achieving that end. A person who exercises management functions, or functions relating to the making, alteration or enforcement of rules, or who occupies a position with duties substantially the same as those of an elected office, becomes the holder of an 'office' for the purpose of the Act and, subject to certain qualifications, will have to be elected by the rank and file. The Bill provides that no officer elected by the rank and file may be dismissed during his period of office unless he is guilty of misappropriation of union funds, a grave breach of rules or gross misbehaviour or gross neglect of duty. It will no longer be enough that his services are not needed by the ruling faction in a committee of management. 
Financial members are to be given an absolute right to vote in any election for office bearers and in plebescites touching rules or policy. No person who is a candidate in an election for an office shall be permitted to determine whether any other candidate for election is eligible to stand for office. The right to determine eligibility of candidates will be vested in a returning officer, being a person who is not an employee of the organisation or holding any other office in the organisation. In the past, nominations have been scrutinised and rejected by the very persons who were under challenge in a pending election. I do not have to enlarge on the sense of injustice suffered by the individual candidate and the distortion of fair control of a trade union which can arise in a case of the type now provided against. Section 144 is amended to provide that a person who is employed in an industry shall be entitled to membership of an organisation providing he complies with the conditions of eligibility in the registered rules of that organisation. 
Statute of Limitations 
When a businessman enters into a contract with a trading enterprise for the purchase of goods or for the building of a factory, and his contractor fails to carry out his obligations under contract, the law usually allows him 6 years, sometimes longer, to bring a claim for damages in respect of his losses to the court. Similarly, if a debtor fails to pay money owing by him and defaults upon his lawful obligation, our businessman is given 6 years in which to sue for recovery of what is justly due to him. In the view of this Government, a worker is entitled to the same consideration as a businessman as to the time in which he can sue a defaulting employer to recover wages which he has been underpaid, annual leave which he has not been granted, or long service benefits which the employer evaded when his obligation was due. Fair-minded employers will not seek to deny to workers the rights they themselves enjoy. This Bill therefore extends from 1 year to 6 years the time in which an action may be taken to recover amounts underpaid as a result of obligations under an award or certified agreement. This will apply to actions taken under the provisions of section 119, or by employees themselves under section 123. 
Costs 
The Government proposes to abolish the power to make orders for costs against parties in proceedings arising under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. This is part of our policy of bringing the courts to the people, of overcoming the deterrent which often prevents a person from seeking to right a wrong because of the burden of costs he might incur where his argument has failed to carry the day. There have been cases where costs awarded against individuals in the court have led to the bankruptcy of working men and to the seizure of their property because they have employed the court to settle their differences with an opponent. We do not wish to see men tempted to resort to direct force to defeat a rival in a union conflict. Our industrial conflicts over the years have been happily free of violence or the threat of violence. The possibility of having costs awarded against an applicant discourages the use of courts as a means of settling differences. 
There is, of course, some statutory provisions which are available to assist rank and file unionists who wish to bring cases to the Industrial Court. The Act now provides for financial assistance to be granted in some cases by the Attorney-General but this only applies to actions taken under certain sections of the Act. Furthermore, it does not cover assistance where such a union member is required to defend in the High Court a decision given in his favour by the Industrial Court. I have been through this experience myself. I had 2 cases in the Commonwealth Industrial Court. One was taken on appeal to the High Court and I had to chase that appeal from my own pocket. The second case, which I also won in the Industrial Court, was taken on appeal to the Privy Council, and I had to bear the burden of that cost out of my own pocket. The union executive against which I was taking my action for justice - it was an action for justice because in both cases I won - was able to draw upon the funds of the union, but I was a private individual with no money except my own personal possessions. 
The Attorney-General, of course, has the power to make ex gratia payments in respect of costs after the event, and many such payments have been made where unsuccessful litigants of poor means have been threatened with sequestration of their worldly possessions. Relief of this kind is unsatisfactory because it is discretionary and is generally long delayed. The Bill provides that no costs shall be awarded against any party in any proceeding before the Commission, the Industrial Court, the court of a State or a Territory, or the Registrar, which is a matter arising under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. A similar provision in the Bill prohibits the granting of costs in the High Court in appeals coming before it from judgments, orders or sentences made by the Industrial Court or another court under this Act or in proceedings in respect of an award. 
Moore v. Doyle 
Over recent months, there have been a number of disputes between 2 groups of transport workers in New South Wales concerning the legal status of transport workers belonging to the respective State and Federal Transport Workers Unions. The Federal union is an organisation registered under the Commonwealth Act, and the State union is a separate union registered under New South Wales law. A dispute between members of these 2 bodies was heard and determined by the Commonwealth Industrial Court in 1969, and is reported under the name of Moore v. Doyle. The state of affairs revealed by that decision has caused the greatest concern to all persons involved in labour relations. Judgment in that case was given in February 1969, but in the 4 long years that have elapsed since then, and in spite of the clear invitation of the Court for action to resolve the anomaly, the Gorton and McMahon Governments virtually ignored the problems raised by that case. In the limited time available to me, it is not possible to explain the full complexities of the decision. Some highly abstract ideas must be mastered before one can comprehend the problem and find the solution. No single legislative body, Federal or State is capable of dealing with all the legal questions involved or of propounding a solution that Will hold in every industrial jurisdiction, under present constitutional arrangements. The head note to Moore v Doyle is worth noting and reads: 
For some 40 years after the adoption of a scheme designed to achieve the amalgamation of a New South Wales State Trade and Industrial union with a federal organisation registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, the State trade union continued to conduct its affairs in accordance with its own rules and State industrial law and pursued with vigour benefits available to a State trade union under State law. During such a period, members of the State trade unions became members of the New South Wales branch of the Federal organisation. The State trade union, inter alia, assumed the name of and rendered accounts and accepted obligations as the New South Wales branch of the federal organisation. The scheme of amalgamation was assumed by its authors and actors to have achieved the continued existence of the State trade union and, at the same time, its establishment as a branch of the federal organisation. 
It was held, in the circumstances of the case to which I just made reference, that the State trade union had not ceased to exist, and that it was not a branch of the Federal organisation. The result of this decision was that the Commonwealth Industrial Court was unable to issue orders against an officer of the State union for his compliance with federally registered rules. It follows, therefore, that the 
Commonwealth Arbitration Commission has no power to make an award, or certify an agreement, binding on the State union. It is the legal situation revealed by this decision which is at the root of the dispute between the 2 groups concerned to represent transport workers in New South Wales, and which threatened the delivery of petrol in that State in February of this year. It is an irritation to most unions; an intractable problem for some. In the course of its 1969 judgment the Court had this to say: 
Cases referred to earlier in this judgment are further illustrations of the web of problems and technicalities which have developed in the system of trade union organisation in Australia . . . The system as required to exist by State and Federal legislation and as it has evolved under that legislation in practice is technical, productive of artificialism and in urgent need of the attention of the law reformer ... A system of trade union organisation is urgently needed which would enable the one body to represent its relevant members in both the Federal and State arbitration systems and it should be possible for federal and state authorities to examine the question whether organisations and trade unions can be provided with such a system ... we have decided to refer our judgment in this matter and these remarks to the AttorneyGeneral for the Commonwealth in the hope that it may be possible, after consultation between the Commonwealth and State Attorneys-General, the trade unions both federal and state, and other interested government authorities to arrange for the important organisational matters to which we have referred. 
In a later case subsequent to the Moore v. Doyle case, namely, the case of Steuart v. Oliver, it was held, in respect of the Australian Workers Union, that a substantial number of persons were legitimate members of a body known as the Australian Workers' Union of Queensland, a State union, but were not entitled to be members of the Australian Workers' Union created by the Commonwealth Act. The coverage of industry was different in the 2 sets of registered rules. It was held in that case that there were 2 separate unions. The 2 unions were funded and administered for all practical purposes as if they were one. Membership of the one did not entitle a person to vote in the elections of the other, although that had always been the practice of the 2 unions for nearly 60 years. 
It is against this background of technicality and confusion that the Australian Labor Party platform declares that the Constitution must be amended to allow the system for the resolution of industrial conflict to be modernised by enabling the Australian Parliament to establish sensible means for the resolution of questions relating to terms and conditions of employment. The State Parliaments have this power. The Government believes that the National Parliament must have similar powers. In the interim, however, we must work through the existing Constitution, however defective it is. The complete solution to Moore v. Doyle in these circumstances requires complementary Federal and State legislation. I have already had preliminary discussions with the State Ministers for Labour on this problem and shortly I will be initiating further discussions with them. The State Ministers appreciate the problems involved in the matter and will, I believe, give their full co-operation in assisting the Government to take whatever steps are necessary to put an end to the present chaotic state of affairs. 
However, in this Bill we are initiating a further important step to overcome some of the difficulties caused by the Moore v Doyle decision. Section 132 of the Act, which prescribes the conditions which must be complied with by a registered organisation, is amended to provide that an organisation registered under the Commonwealth Act will in future be able to include in its membership persons who are not employees in the industry covered by the organisation so long as they follow an occupation in or in connection with that industry, or are qualified to be employed in or in connection with that industry. This will enable the Transport Workers' Union of Australia to include as members, owner-drivers in New South Wales and other States. This is by no means the complete answer to the difficulties that have caused the current dispute among transport workers and it does not even touch difficulties affecting other unions. As I have said, this amendment does not completely solve the Moore v Doyle problem, but it does remove one of the issues causing difficulties. It still will be necessary for the Commonwealth Parliament to legislate further on this issue, but this cannot be done until further conferences can be arranged with the 6 State Ministers for Labour. 
Award Interpretation 
A great deal of industrial unrest revolves around difficulties and misunderstandings as to what is meant by the terms of various awards and agreements. In the past, where a deadlock occurred as to the meaning of a term of an award or agreement, the only way to determine the matter was for the Arbitration Inspectorate to take a prosecution against an employer. Whilst there has been provision in the Act for a union or an employer to seek an interpretation of an award or agreement, delayed hearings and heavy costs have discouraged parties from making use of this provision. 
I had previously indicated that I would seek to overcome this problem by requesting the Arbitration Inspectorate to initiate prosecutions in all cases where an award interpretation was required. My Department has counselled me against the use of prosecutions merely for the purpose of obtaining an interpretation of awards or agreements and has suggested that as an alternative the Government should amend section 110 so as to permit the Secretary of the Department of Labour or an inspector to apply to the Court for an interpretation. In this way the costs of the proceedings will be borne by the Commonwealth. There would be no question of prosecuting an employer or of imposing a heavy penalty upon an employer who, without any malice aforethought or through genuine misunderstanding of the award, had failed to comply with its requirements. 
I believe that it is the duty of the Government to assist in clarifying awards made by its own tribunals. I have accepted the Department's advice and the Bill provides an amendment of section 110 in the terms indicated. This will mean a substantial increase in the work of the Industrial Court because this is the only Court that can make an interpretation of a Federal award. At present, section 98 of the Act limits the number of judges of the Court to a Chief Judge and not more than 7 other judges. 
Since its inception, there has been an increasing use of the Court for purposes other than its functions under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Apart from the fact that judges of the Court act as judges of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, judges have been called on to carry out special assignments. For example,  Mr Justice  Kerr, before he left the Bench to become Chief Justice of New South Wales, carried out a major inquiry into pay and conditions in the armed services.  Mr Justice  Woodward has succeeded to the task of  Mr Justice  Kerr in this field. He also is concerned with other activities on behalf of the Government in relation to Aborigines.  Mr Justice  Nimmo is now acting as Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Fiji and is not likely to return to the Australian Industrial Bench for at least 4 years, if at all, and  Mr Justice  Eggleston is engaged on duties connected with the administration of the Trade Practices Act. From time to time, the number of judges on the Court has been increased to meet the increasing work load. On virtually every occasion in the past, it has been necessary to further amend the legislation to enable additional judges to be appointed. 
Justice delayed is justice denied. The Government believes that constant legislation of this nature is unnecessary and that it is far more satisfactory to remove the limitation on the number of judges who may be appointed to the Court so as to provide that the Court shall consist of a Chief Judge and such number of other judges as are appointed from time to time. This simple amendment will enable the appointment of new judges whenever the work load warrants it. It will ensure that action can be taken quickly to ensure that cases coming within the jurisdiction of the Court are heard and disposed of promptly. 
Miscellaneous Matters 
The  President  of the Arbitration Commission,  Sir Richard  Kirby, has made a strong plea that future presidential members who are qualified for judicial appointment should be given the same designation as a judge of the Industrial Court in addition to the same rank, status and precedence of a judge which they now enjoy. The President's view is supported by the Acting  President, Mr Justice  Moore. The Government has accepted their views and the Bill provides that new presidential members who are eligible for judicial appointment will be granted the title 'Justice'. 
The. Bill contains a number of other miscellaneous provisions. Among them is a provision to correct a deficiency in the 1972 Act which prevented single members of the Commission from making awards on matters covered by section 31 of the Act, for example, national wage and standard hours, where the award was simply to give effect to principles previously enunciated by a Full Bench. Provision has also been made in the Bill to give an extended right to union officials to enter at any time during working hours at establishments covered by Federal awards. 
In this way full time officials will be better able to enforce the observance of safety regulations, clear up misinterpretations of awards, smooth out demarcation differences, interview non-unionists, detect symptoms of potential unrest, and smooth out abrasive managerial policies. I have never been able to understand why so many employers do so much to impede the on-site activities of full time officials and then blame the union when its shop stewards find themselves with an avoidable dispute on their hands.  Mr Michael  Clarke, Assistant Director of the Industrial Society of the United Kingdom, with splendid clarity, wrote: 
More often than not full-time trade union officials are treated like the fire brigade and only get called in when things have already gone wrong. 
The Bill also repeals the provision inserted in 1972 which provided, for the first time, for inquiries into officially conducted ballots. The Government believes that the safeguard* in relation to officially conducted ballots are such that there is no need to provide for inquiries into them. Another clause of the Bill removes the 1972 provision requiring organisations regularly to notify the Registrar of the whereabouts and state of their bank accounts. This provision was ancillary to the penal sanctions against strikes. With these penalties removed completely from the Act, there is no justification for retaining such an onerous provision. 

 Mr Speaker, in outline, those are the provisions of this Bill. I have explained that we will remove those provisions which discourage amalgamation of unions; that we will protect organisations and their members from civil actions for tort in connection with industrial disputes; that we will remove completely from the Act the power to prohibit strikes or enforce penal sanctions against strikes and that we will build the framework for more democratic control of unions. I would not need to be a prophet to predict that the Opposition will claim that this Bill favours employees. When it was in government, the present Opposition while claiming always to represent all interests, in point of fact quite blatantly ignored, or damaged, the interests of employees. The McMahon Government's last set of amendments to this Act was preceded with a ritualistic and phoney series of meetings between employers and trade unions which were memorable only because the minutes of those meetings show that the then 
Minister accepted virtually all of the employers' requests and rejected virtually all of the unions requests. That was the former Government's idea of national government. This Bill goes part way to redressing the balance. In doing so, it will secure for our conciliation and arbitration system very much better foundations than those laid by any previous government. The conciliation and arbitration system is struggling to find a new role in a changing environment. We will help it to find that role by removing its most objectionable features and developing those conciliatory features most useful in today's environment. Ultimately, we will save the framework of Australia's conciliation and arbitration system by accommodating to change. The former Government's attempts at repression would have destroyed the system of conciliation and arbitration.  Mr Speaker,  I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lynch)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the  Bill  be now read a second time. 
The primary purpose of this Bill is to enable Parliament to approve ratification by Australia of amendments to the constitution of the International Labour Organisation. In this the Government is following the example set by the Chifley Government in 1947 on the occasion of major changes to the ILO constitution following World War II. The Government reaffirms its strong support for the ILO and its wide-ranging activities concerned with the promotion of social justice throughout the world. The ILO is unique in the international community because it is the only organisation in which representatives of workers and employers participate on an equal footing with those of governments in policy formulation and decision-making. This tripartite composition ensures that the ILO is widely representative of each country and that its work is clearly established in, and focussed on, the human and social problems of the people of the. world and the real improvement of their life. For this reason alone it deserves the support of us all. 
It would take too long to list all the achievements of the ILO during the 54 years it has been in existence. It is sufficient to say that it has had a major role in promoting the acceptance and application of human rights in such areas as abolishing forced labour, promoting freedom of association and removing discrimination in employment. It has underlined the importance of social considerations in the drive for economic development. It has provided fresh hopes, insights and support to those seeking improved living and working conditions, while being at the same time, conscious of economic realities. Finally it has stressed the relationship between social justice and peace - 'universal and lasting peace can be established only if it is based upon social justice'. In recognition of its work the ILO received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1969. 
These emphases continue to guide the ILO's work program. For example, a current thrust of the organisation is aimed at urgent, effective action to deal with the massive problems of unemployment and underemployment existing in many parts of the world. Its world employment program is directed at ensuring that governments must take employment considerations into account in formulating their development plans and programs. It is quite evident, as the members of the Opposition can testify, that high rates of unemployment bring political retribution. The ILO has made it clear that the achievement of high levels of employment does not occur as a spin-off from high rates of economic growth. It occurs only if governments accept it as a priority objective of policy and act accordingly. 
No one can guarantee that the ILO activities in the employment promotion field will be successful but it is obvious that unless the high levels of unemployment and underemployment in many parts of the world are reduced rapidly there is a danger not simply of economic stagnation but of political and social conflict of crisis proportions in many countries. The Government vigorously supports the ILO work under the world employment program and its regional segments and I hope to discuss with the Director-General of the International Labour Office,  Mr Wilfred  Jenks, when I am in Geneva in June ways in which this work can be advanced. 
Perhaps the ILO is best known for its standardsetting activities. Annual sessions of the International Labour Conference - it has been called the world parliament on labour and social questions - adopt international conventions and recommendations dealing with most aspects of living and working conditions. The 136 conventions and 144 recommendations constitute an international labour code covering virtually the whole of the labour and social fields. I would hope that all members share the Government's belief in the value of ratifying as many of the ILO conventions as quickly as possible. It is Australian Labor Party policy. It was the policy which was unanimously adopted by the delegates present at the Launceston Federal Conference. 
First, acceptance and ratification of ILO conventions helps to impart a favourable international image of Australia as a forwardlooking country which gives priority attention to vital areas of human relations. It is essential, I believe, that Australia have a good record of ratifications if we are to be able to speak with authority and standing in the international community on labour and social matters. Second, a good record of ratification would underline our support for the work of the International Labour Organisation, the tripartite character of which, with representation by employers and workers as well as Governments, as I have mentioned, gives it a unique standing among international institutions. Third, as an advanced economy in a region comprising mostly developing countries, the Government firmly believes that Australia should be fa the vanguard of countries taking action to foster and develop sound labour and social policies in accordance with accepted international standards. Acceptance of the concept of fair labour practices is important and, indeed, was one of the premises on which the ILO was founded. 
Fourth, the ratification of ILO conventions stimulates us to improve our own standards. Fifth, Australia has a very special responsibility for Papua New Guinea which will soon be self-governing and independent. Industrial relations in the Territory frequently have racial ramifications, since most employers are expatriates and most employees are indigenes. It is important, therefore, that Australia should leave Papua New Guinea with industrial laws which accord with international standards. There are several conventions of particular significance for Papua New Guinea which can only be extended to Papua New Guinea and our other non-metropolitan territories when they have been ratified in respect of Australia itself. 
Since coming to office the Government has taken positive action to improve Australia's record of ratifying ILO conventions, a record which leaves much to be desired. Up to December last Australia had ratified 33 conventions out of the 136 conventions adopted by the International Labour Conference. This is just under the average, number of ratifications for the 123 member States of the ILO, a considerable proportion of which are developing countries. When I add that some 19 countries have ratified more than 50 conventions and that France has been able to ratify 93 conventions, the extent to which Australia has fallen behind is all too evident. Of course we face difficulties because of our Federal Constitution but if Australia genuinely wishes to ratify conventions ways can be found to do this. 
Already this Government has made significant advances in promoting CommonwealthState co-operation. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  wrote to all State Premiers in December last stressing the importance, which the Commonwealth Government attaches to the ratification of ILO conventions and requesting their support in stepping up the pace of ratifications. He indicated that priority attention was being given to those conventions dealing with fundamental human rights which Australia had not ratified at that time. These were: Convention No. 87 - Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise, adopted by the ILO in 1948; Convention No. 98 - Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining, adopted in 1949; Convention No. 100 - Equal Remuneration, adopted in 1951; and Convention No. Ill - Discrimination (Employment and Occupation), adopted in 1958. Conventions Nos 87 and 98 were subsequently ratified by Australia on 28th February this year. I and my Department are working actively towards early ratification of Conventions Nos 100 and 111. 1 hope to make statements on these instruments very shortly. 
The ratification of ILO conventions has also been discussed with the States - at ministerial level at the meeting of Commonwealth and State Labour Ministers in February and at permanent head level at the meeting of the Departments of Labour Advisory Committee held in Papua New Guinea last week. Ministers decided that a working party of Commonwealth and' State officers would be set up to report to their next meeting, scheduled for later this year, on how the ratification of ILO conventions might be accelerated, including the establishment of an order of priority for action in respect of particular conventions. The working party will hold its first meeting, I am pleased to say, next week. 
The Government is moving quickly to fulfil all of Australia's outstanding obligations connected with the application of ILO conventions ratified by Australia to our nonmetropolitan territories. Thus the Government is consulting with the Government of Papua New Guinea to clear up outstanding action required in respect of ILO conventions ratified by Australia. For the first time a tripartite observer delegation from Papua New Guinea will be attending this year's session of the International Labour Conference and I anticipate that in company with the Minister for Labour of Papua New Guinea and the other members of the Papua New Guinea delegation I shall be able to register with the Director-General of the International Labour Office a considerable number of declarations on ILO conventions for Papua New Guinea. 
Attention is also being paid to making declarations for the Cocos (Keeling) Islands and Christmas Island for conventions ratified by Australia. It is a matter of some embarrassment to Australia that the requirements of the ILO constitution that declarations must be made for these Territories have not yet been fulfilled. This will be one of the matters to be discussed by my colleague, the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Morrison),  when he meets  Mr Clunies  Ross next weekend. I hope that he will find time to discuss it fully. 
In addition, the Government is giving final consideration to ratifying the 4 ILO conventions relating solely to non-metropolitan territories. They are: Convention No. 82  -  Social Policy (Non-Metropolitan Territories), 1947; No. 83  -  Labour Standards (NonMetropolitan Territories), 1947; No. 84- Right of Association (Non-Metropolitan Territories), 1947; and No. 86  -  Contracts of Employment (Indigenous Workers), 1947. 
All the measures I have mentioned speak for themselves in demonstrating the Government's determination that Australia's record of ratification of ILO conventions can, and will, be improved significantly. Let me turn now to the specific provisions of the Bill itself. As I indicated at the outset, its primary purpose is to enable the Parliament to approve ratification by Australia of the amendments to the ILO constitution adopted in 1964 and 1972. 
The 3 amendments adopted in 1964 involve matters of some significance. None of these is yet in force and the Government hopes that ratification by Australia will give a new impetus to their ratification or acceptance by other countries. Amendments to the ILO constitution come into force only when they are ratified or accepted by two-thirds of the member States of the ILO including 5 of the 10 States of Chief Industrial Importance. 
The first of the 1964 amendments was designed to strengthen obligations on ILO member States with responsibilities for nonmetropolitan territories in relation to the application of ratified ILO conventions. Under the 1LO constitution at present, when a member State responsible for the international relations of non-metropolitan territories ratifies an ILO convention there is no specific time limit in which it is required to make declarations providing for the applicability of the convention to its non-metropolitan territories. The main effect of the amendment is to make it an obligation for declarations to be made at the time of ratification. The principles it embodies have received wide support and the previous Government was proposing to ratify the amendment at a later date. The new Government sees no reason for delaying any longer Australian ratification of the amendment which will assist in improving working and living conditions in nonmetropolitan territories. 
Of the other 2 amendments adopted in 1964, one provided for the suspension from participation in the International Labour Conference of any ILO member State which had been found by the United Nations to be flagrantly and persistently pursuing by its legislation a declared policy of racial discrimination such as apartheid and the other for the expulsion from the ILO or suspension from the exercise of the rights and privileges of membership of the ILO of any member which the United Nations had suspended from the exercise of the rights and privileges of membership. These amendments are now of less significance than when they were adopted in 1964 because South Africa has since left the ILO. Nevertheless, the Government proposes to ratify them to demonstrate Australia's firm opposition to all forms of racial discrimination such as apartheid. 
As to the amendment adopted last year, it provides for an increase in the number of titular members of the governing body of the International Labour Office from 48 to 56. This was agreed on virtually unanimously by the Conference last year and the Australian Government, employer and worker delegates all supported it. The amendment is designed to restore the relationship between the size of the governing body and the number of members of the ILO, which has increased with the entry into the organisation of newlyindependent States. 
The Government is also taking the opportunity while the legislation is before the Parliament to provide for approval of the two amendments to the ILO Constitution accepted by the Australian Government on 20th August 1953 and 21st December 1962. These amendments came into force on 20th May 1954 and 22nd May 1963 respectively and had the effect of increasing the size of the Governing Body of the International Labour Office. In introducing this Bill the Government is indicating its firm and vigorous support for the ILO, its basic concepts and the work it performs. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lynch)  adjourned. 
The Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following information in reply to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) Surveys carried out in February of each year from 1964 have provided estimates of the numbers of persons aged 15-24 years who had attended full-time at a school, university, college or other educational institution in the previous year, and who were not intending to return to full-time education. The surveys have also provided estimates of the numbers of such persons who were employed at the time of the survey. No estimates are available from this source as to the numbers employed subsequently. 
Estimates and percentages derived from the February surveys in the years 1964 to 1972 are shown in the table below. Since they are based on a sample, they are subject to sampling variability. Corresponding particulars from the February 1973 survey are not yet available. 
I would also refer the honourable member to the reply I gave to his Question No. 30. 
I am advised that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are no official published estimates of the contribution to increases in average weekly earnings made by national wage decisions, other award increases, increases in overtime and over-award and other increase;:. 1 would however refer the honourable member to my reply to Parliamentary Question No. 269. 
The table below shows the annual increases in average weekly earnings per employed male unit for the period 1966 to 1972. 
I am advised that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are no official published statistics on average weekly earnings of all employees. The Commonwealth Statistician's regular quarterly series - average weekly earnings per employed male unit - relates only to 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to my answer to Question Number 116. The cost estimates can be calculated on a pro rata basis. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is insufficient data available to permit a precise estimate to be made of the cost of introducing 4 weeks leave with 5 weeks pay. Any estimate of the cost necessarily depends on the assumptions adopted. If one assumes no effect on labour productivity then, depending on the method adopted to compensate for the loss of production and the basis of annual leave remuneration, the effect on the introduction of 4 weeks leave with an additional weeks pay would be to increase unit labour costs and the national wages bill by between 3.3 per cent and 5.6 per cent. In terms of the present wages bill this approach places the money cost in the range S720m to $l,230m. However these estimates completely ignore any favourable effect on productivity and may therefore grossly over-estimate the extent of the impact. 
Using similar assumptions to those used in making estimates in (1) above, the answer to (i)(a) is $50m and to (0(b) is 0.2 per cent. The extent of available information on the wages bill and structure of earnings in the industries mentioned in (ii) to (vii) does not enable the formulation of any useful estimates for these industries. 
In view of the answers to parts (1) and (2) and the uncertain relationship between unit labour costs and prices it is not possible to make a meaningful assessment of the inflationary impact. However, it is considered any impact would be within the economic capacity of the community. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There fs Insufficient data available to permit a precise estimate to be made of the cost of introducing 4 weeks annual leave for all wage and salary earners. Any estimate necessarily depends crucially on the assumptions adopted. If one assumes no effect on labour productivity, then depending on the method adopted to compensate for the loss of production and the basis of annual leave remuneration, the introduction of 4 weeks annual leave would increase unit labour costs and the national wages bill by between 1.7 per cent and 3.7 per cent. In terms of the present wages bill the money cost would be in the range $370m to $8 10m. However these estimates completely ignore the likely beneficial effects on labour productivity and may therefore grossly overestimate the extent of any impact. 
Using similar assumptions to those used in making estimates in (1) above, the answer to (i) (a) is $25m and to (i) (b) is 0.1 per cent. The extent of information on the wages bill and structure of earnings in industries mentioned in parts (ii) to (vii) does not enable the formulation of any useful estimates for these industries. 
In view of the answers to parts (1) and (2) and the uncertain relationship between unit labour costs and prices it is not possible to make a meaningful assessment of the inflationary impact, if any. However, it is considered the introduction of 4 weeks leave is within the economic capacity of the community. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The necessary statistical information required to make a precise assessment of the cost of the introduction of 6 weeks maternity leave on full pay for all female wage and salary earners is not available, one of the main deficiencies being a lack of data on the number of women who leave the labour force in any one year because of pregnancy. However, on the basis of the limited statistical information available, it is extremely unlikely that the increase in unit labour costs and the national wages bill would be more than 0.1 per cent. In terms of the present wages bill, the additional cost would most likely be less than $20m. 
Using the approach adopted for the estimate in (1) the approximate cost of 6 weeks maternity leave on full pay to all females employed in the Commonwealth Public Service would be of the order of Sl.Sm. The percentage addition to the national wages bill and unit labour costs would be minimal. The assumptions underlying the estimate in part (1) and for the Commonwealth Public Service become increasingly tenuous when applied to the industries mentioned in (ii) to (vii). Accordingly, and especially in view of the small magnitude of the likely cost, little purpose would be served by providing estimates. 
Although because of the imprecise nature of the estimates the exact inflationary effects, if any, cannot be ascertained, the estimate provided in (1) would suggest that any overall impact would be minimal. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In a decision handed down on 15th December, 1972, in the 1972 Equal Pay Cases the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission adopted the principle of 'equal pay for work of equal value' for female workers employed under its awards and determinations of the Public Service Arbitrator. The Commission defined this principle as the fixation of award wage rates by a consideration of the work performed irrespective of the sex of the worker'. The Commission also decided that equal pay increases would be granted in three equal instalments so that one third is payable not later than 31st December 1973, half the remainder by 30th September 1974, and the balance by 30th June 1975. 
The precise cost of applying this principle cannot be assessed with any degree of accuracy as it is impossible to predict in advance the value which industrial tribunals will place on work performed by female workers who have not been awarded equal pay in accordance with principles laid down by the Commission in its 1969 Equal Pay Cases Decision. In addition, there are important deficiencies in the available statistical information which would preclude any precise calculation of the cost. 
Nevertheless, in its submissions to the resumed hearings of the National Wage Cases 1972-73 the Commonwealth at the request of the Commission put forward some estimates of the cost of introducing equal pay. These were based on a number of assumptions including the following: 
Equal pay will flow to all females (adult and juniors) not already receiving equal pay whose wages and salaries are normally varied in accordance with awards and agreements of industrial tribunals, but not to other female employees. 
On average females not already receiving equal pay will receive a pay increase equivalent to the differential that existed immediately prior to the introduction of the total wage between male and female basic wage rates and adjusted for subsequent increases to the total wage granted in National Wage Cases. 
It was estimated that the introduction of equal pay for work of equal value in Federal awards would add in the first year $50.4m or 0.2 per cent to the annual wages bill. When fully introduced, the cumulative increase in the national wages bill would be approximately $151. 2m or 0.7 per cent. 
Because the States of New South Wales, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania (in respect of Crown employees only) have legislation governing the conditions for the granting of equal pay for females employed under their respective State awards, it cannot be assumed that the recent Equal Pay Decision of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission will flow to female workers employed under State awards in these States. However, if the principle of equal pay for work of equal value were applied in both Federal and State awards under the same conditions as determined by the Commission in its recent decision the national wages bill would be increased by approximately $149. lm or 0.7 per cent in the first year and by approximately $447.2m or 2.0 per cent when the principle is fully introduced. These estimates are based on the same assumptions as indicated in (i) and (ii) above. 
If the introduction of equal pay bad no effect on productivity the estimated increase in unit labour costs would be of the same order as the estimated increase in the national wages bill. &lt;2) It is estimated that the application of the Commission's recent equal pay decision in the Commonwealth Public Service would increase the wages bill in the Service by approximately $15m. This would be equivalent to an increase of .07 per cent in the national wages bill. As with the other estimates it must be noted that this figure is based on a number of assumptions and should therefore be taken as representing a rough order of magnitude only. The necessary statistical information to enable useful estimates to be made in respect of industries referred to in parts (ii) to (vii) of the question is not available. 
For reasons given in the answers to parts (1) and (2) and because of the uncertain relationship between unit labour cost increases and _ price Increases, no precise assessment of the inflationary impact is possible. However, it is considered that any cost effects would be within the capacity of the economy. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The absence of effective systems of consultation between employees and management certainly constitutes one of the possible causes of industrial disputes. 
Statistics are not available on the number of companies in Australia which have consultative systems. 
There are a variety of consultative systems concerning such matters as grievance procedures, safety, employee welfare and the introduction of technological and other types Of change. My Department has from time to time conducted studies on consultative procedures and made the results available to interested persons. 
My Department also endeavours to keep itself informed on consultative procedures in overseas countries. 
The Government is proposing to set up an inquiry into industrial relations in Australia. This will of necessity involve an examination of procedures for consultation between employers and management on such matters as wages and working conditions. 
Officers of my Department are always available to advise employers and employee representatives on the value of effective consultation. The Government would be prepared to authorise the expenditure of further funds for this purpose if it considered that this was warranted. 
Medical Benefit Funds in Victoria: Contributions (Question No. 400) 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of the Bill is to extend the operation of the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act 1967-1972 for a further period of 12 months. The Bill also proposes to extend the power to make regulations to include non-continuous ports and to remove some existing limitations in relation to other ports. These measures are necessary to permit the evolution and introduction of permanent legislative arrangements for the industry. The Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act was enacted in 1967 to give legislative effect to the agreement entered into by the National Stevedoring Industry Conference which was set up by the previous Government under the chairmanship of  Mr A.  E. Woodward, Q.C., with the object of achieving long-term improvement of conditions in the stevedoring industry. 
The National Conference reported to the then Government in April 1967, and recorded agreement in principle, inter alia, on a scheme for the permanent employment, on weekly hiring, of watersiders in major ports; a pension scheme for regular waterside workers; arrangements for coping with anticipated redundancy; procedures for handling industrial disputes; and disciplinary procedures. These proposals involved significant changes in the role of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority, whose functions in relation to permanently employed watersiders were to be largely transferred to the stevedoring companies. 
The enabling, legislation was originally introduced for a trial period expiring on 30th June 1970, by which time it was anticipated that legislation providing for permanent arrangements in the industry could be introduced. However, before that date it became evident that a number of factors prevented the introduction of permanent legislation at that time.The most important of these were that it had not been possible for the principal parties in the industry to determine what employment arrangements would be introduced in the smaller ports, where about one-fifth of the industry's work force was still employed on a casual basis, and the fact that the structure of the industry was being greatly affected by the development of containerisation and other new cargo handling techniques. For these reasons the life of the temporary legislation was extended for 2 years until 30th June 1972. 
By early 1972 no significant progress had been made to resolve these issues. Furthermore, the task of evolving permanent employment arrangements for the entire industry was further complicated by the financial difficulties in which the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority found itself. From 1970 onward the Authority has been progressively less able to meet its commitments from the levies on employers raised under the Stevedoring Industry Charge Act, mainly because of a rapidly rising level of expenditure on idle time. Idle time expenditure comprises payments made to permanent watersiders in respect of full shifts for which they are available for work but are not required. The rising trend in idle time expenditure is a reflection of the progressive introduction of technological developments in the industry. Accordingly, the temporary legislation was again extended for a further 12 months until 30th June 1973. 
Notwithstanding the difficulties which have prevented the introduction of permanent legislation relating to this industry in the past, I believe that it will be possible during the next 12 months for this Government to determine permanent legislation arrangements for the industry. The former government, of course, seemed to dilly dally with this matter as long as it could, never making a decision if it could possibly avoid doing so. It seemed bent on a policy of starving the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority into bankruptcy. A lot of our present troubles stem from the inaction of the former Government and its inability to understand the problems of the stevedoring industry. In contrast to the approach adopted by the previous administration, positive steps have already been taken to resolve the outstanding issues in this industry, These are steps that should and could have been taken previously by the former Government if it had only had the will to do something about the problems in the. industry. 
Yes, or the will to do the job properly. I am obliged to the honourable, member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  for the correction. The former Government had neither the will to do the job properly nor the ability to do the job properly. I have requested the Stevedoring Industry Council to supply me with its views on future permanent employment arrangements for casual ports and on funding arrangements for the industry as a whole. I have also commissioned an officer of my Department, one of the most knowledgeable men on the stevedoring industry in Australia,  Mr Norman  K. Foster, who was for 3 years a member of this House, to inquire into and report on certain aspects of stevedoring operations in relation to the activities of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission.  Mr Foster  is at present visiting Coffs Harbour. When he has completed that assignment he will be visiting the other States so that he may give me an on the spot report as to what is needed to be done to correct the results of the inactivity of the previous Government over the past four or five years. 
Nevertheless, it will not be possible to reach finality on future arrangements for the 
Industry in sufficient time to prepare permanent legislation before the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act expires at the end of June this year. After all, this Government has been in a position to legislate for only about 9 weeks since its election to office on 2nd December. In that time we have, I am proud to say, produced an extraordinary amount of enlightened legislation. We have about another 60 Bills on the stocks, ready if only members of the Opposition will get off their backsides and intelligently discuss the Bills that we want the Parliament to consider. I therefore propose that during the current session the life of this Act be extended for a further 12 months to 30th June 1974. Extending the life of the Act until June 1974 will not of course preclude the introduction of permanent legislation at an earlier date if this proves feasible. With the support and valued help of  Mr Foster  I am certain that it will be possible to bring in permanent legislation at an earlier date than that to which I have just alluded. Indeed, an earlier date for permanent legislation is eminently desirable. We need to have this industry put on a proper and permanent basis. 
As presently framed, the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act does not have application to non-continuous ports, and places some limitations on the powers of the Governor-General to make regulations in relation to permanent and continuous ports. It is, therefore, proposed to extend the regulationmaking powers to cover non-continuous ports, and to remove existing limitations in relation to other ports to the extent necessary to ensure that any transitional arrangements for permanent employment of a different nature from that in existing permanent ports can be introduced by regulation pending the framing of permanent legislation. This involves minor changes to section 8 of the Act. Those changes will be indicated and explained at the Committee stage. I have much pleasure in commending the Bm to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Sinclair)  adjourned. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The stoppage by tanker drivers and airport refuellers extended from midnight on 18th January 1973, to midnight on 30th January 1973, thus resulting in an estimated loss of 45,500 man hours. 
The dispute concerned the delay in the commencement of negotiations for a new award in the oil industry. Associated with this delay was the question of whether the federally-registered Transport Workers' Union of Australia  or  the state-registered Transport Workers' Union of Australia, New South Wales Branch, was entitled to represent transport workers covered by the award in New South Wales. The Government was also in close consultation with the Australian Council of Trade Unions throughout the stoppage and as the honourable member will be aware the ACTU played a significant part in resolving the dispute. 
I refer the honourable member to my second reading speech on the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. 
I am advised that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The necessary statistical information to calculate estimates required by the honourable member is either not available or in the case of the Commonwealth Public Service would require the expenditure of greater staff resources for its collection than could be justified. 
The inflationary effect of extending long service leave to casual employees would be unlikely  to  be significant and certainly would not be so great as to override equity considerations. 
The answer  to  the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The government has already taken some steps to ensure adequate representation of trade unions on boards, commissions, trusts or similar governmentcreated bodies. 
It is difficult to define what is 'adequate representation' unless one knew the number of persons who constituted the various boards, commissions, trusts, etc., but on  a  board of, say,  3  members, the appointment of one trade union representative may be considered adequate. 
So far as  I  can ascertain there is at present  a  very low level of trade union representation on the bodies referred to in (I) above but the government will rectify this situation as vacancies occur. 
 I can only say in reply that I will send a copy of the conventions to the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  with a simple statement explaining what all the words mean. He will then see for himself that it is not a matter which can be dealt with under the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act. I can, however, give him the assurance that he seeks by saying that the conventions will be observed. But they cannot be observed under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. There are 2 reasons. Firstly, it is not constitutional to use the Act for the implementation of international agreements. Secondly, it would be an inappropriate Act to use in any event. But, of course, we will honour those conventions that we ratify. 
I shall reply briefly to the honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch).  The purpose of the deletion of Part X of the existing Act which deals with the registration of industrial agreements is to enable those agreements which legally could be registered under Part X to be registered under section 28 of the Act It has been held by pretty high and eminent counsel that there is nothing that Part X can do that cannot already be done under section 28, because it has been pointed out that if Part X agreements deal with matters that are truly industrial agreements, then those industrial agreements can be registered under another parliament. If they are dealing with agreements that are different from industrial agreements, then of course they are invalid. Any agreement that was not a truly industrial agree,ment could not be registered under the Act because the High Court of Australia has held that an agreement cannot incorporate things or be certified by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission if it includes anything which could not be included in an award. 
For example, an award cannot be made unless there is a dispute and there cannot be a dispute unless the parties have been served with a log of claims. The parties cannot go outside the log of claims in pursuance of that dispute; if they do they are out of ambit and the award could not be made out of the ambit of the original log of claims. That would be one reason. We also could not make an agreement which dealt with things that impinged upon managerial prerogatives. If this occurred, it would be outside, the power of the court or the Commission and if the Act purported to give the Commission such power, the Act would be ultra vires the Constitution. It is as simple as that and I hope that the honourable member for Flinders will now see that to retain Part X of the Act is a superfluity which cannot be justified in the circumstances. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 5 (Interpretation). 
I think I can set the Committee at rest on this proposal. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  began by wanting to add a new sub-section 6. It would be nice if he could find sub-sections 4 and 5 first because the section ends at sub-section 3. But that is not important. It would look a bit funny stuck out on its own, that is all. What the honourable member does not seem to understand, although I believe he has had some legal training, is that there is no constitutional power to write into the Conciliation and Arbitration Act any international obligations under conventions of the International Labour Organisation. I wish it were possible to do so. I looked at this matter myself because, like the honourable gentleman - but for different reasons - I was hoping that it may have been possible. The honourable member is wasting his time talking to the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  about constitutional law. If the honourable member is caught for drunkenness I suggest that he go to the honourable member for Moreton, but he will not help him with constitutional law. I was told by an eminent counsel - I suppose one of the most eminent Queen's Counsel in Australia - that it could not be done. The reason I asked for advice was that I was concerned about Convention No. 100 which provided for equal pay for the sexes. It seemed to me it would be a waste of time for unions to be arguing the principles enunciated in ILO Convention No. 100 when all that they would need to do would be to remind the courts, the commissioners and the tribunals that they had a bounden obligation to carry out our obligations under these conventions. 
But that was not the only convention in which 1 was interested. 1 was terribly concerned because there was a convention that banned payments of as little as $2.50 a month for plantation workers in Papua New Guinea. It occurred to me that as the ILO had banned this sort of thing and as an ILO convention had banned also the payment of wages in kind, among many other things that it banned, we ought not have our courts and tribunals supporting these kinds of departures from international agreements. 
The honourable member for Mackellar is quite wildly astray - it is unusual for him to be wildly astray on things, but he is on this matter - when he suggests that there is anything in any of the ILO conventions that would impinge on the obligations set out in the Act surrounding the registration of industrial organisations. There is nothing in the Act to stop a person joining whatever organisation he likes. He may join any organisation that starts up tomorrow morning. The organisation may call itself whatever it chooses. It may cover as many different kinds of people as it chooses. All that the Act says is that it cannot seek registration. There is nothing in the Act about ILO and registration. The ILO convention talks about the right to join and, of course, a person has the right to join. I received a letter today from an organisation which calls itself the Private Secretaries Association. It is not registered as an association. I understand that my own private secretary is a member of it. My secretary has informed me that members of the Association propose to go on strike shortly unless the Government does more about overtime than the former Government did. I was asked whether they had the right to go on strike. There is a private secretary sitting in the precincts of the chamber now. I have not had time to answer that letter formally, but 1 can answer the question informally by saying that of course they have the right to go on strike. That is a right which distinguishes the free man from the slave. These people may do as they please. If people want to join the Private Secretaries Association or an ex-Ministers association they may do so. Nobody can stop them from doing that. The 1LO does no more than say that we must not stop them from doing that. 
But what we are not going to do is have our system of conciliation and arbitration ruined by giving effect to the honourable member for Mackellars interpretation of what an ILO convention means. What a monstrasity of an Act and a system we would finish up with if everybody who works for a living had the right to join any organisation. The simplest way to get customers under that system would be to set a rate of 50c a year and, on the basis of a big turnover, to say: 'Well, you can all join us'. They could be shearers, nit pickers and all sorts of people. All sorts of people could join the one union. Girls working in hospitals could all join that same union. If the honourable member had his way presumably they would have the right to go to the Registrar and to say: 'Look, here is a wonderful union. It is not very efficient but it has constitutional coverage to deal with nurses, boilermakers, shearers, ex-members of Parliament, ex-Ministers and the like and we want the cover of registration for these kinds of people.' The whole thing would end up in chaos. The honourable member, who now seems to be looking a little more sensible than he did earlier, is, I think, beginning to gain a faint glimmer of comprehension about the difficulties that would be created if effect were given to the sort of thing that he advocates. lt is so ridiculous that I must dismiss it as being a 'try on'. 1 do not think the honourable member was really serious. I think that he was just trying the Committee on to see how little I knew about the laws of conciliation and arbitration. He knew that if I fell for his silly little bait it would be proof positive that I knew nothing about the Constitution and that i knew a lot less about the operation of the arbitration system. 
 I am sorry that the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  chose to speak disparagingly of my colleague, the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan),  because he should realise that the honourable gentleman, until he came into this Parliament, was easily one of the most eminent trade union officials in  Australia.  He had been a prominent trade union official for all his working life. He came into the trade union movement as the State Secretary of the Federal Clerks Union of Australia when he was only 22 years of age, and he is regarded by all sections of the trade union movement - whether they are communists, supporters of the Democratic Labor Party, Labor Party people, right, left or centre - as the most competent and one of the most capable men in the business. So to suggest that the honourable gentleman does not know what he is talking about is something which the honourable member for Moreton will live long enough to learn to his regret is not true. 1 do not want to take very long and I will invite the honourable member for Phillip to cite examples of where the present system has not been operating. All that 1 intend to say is that the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  and his learned friend who preceded him, the honourable member for Moreton, do not seem to understand what the amendments are all about. This particular amendment simply says in ordinary lay language that no longer will we have people called arbitration commissioners and others called conciliation commissioners. In future we will have commissioners and presidential members. But the commissioners, the ones we are now talking about, will be people who will be free and who will be authorised to carry out arbitration proceedings and conciliation proceedings. If the honourable gentlemen will look at clause 12 of the Bill they will see that it alters section 22 of the Act. 
My dear friend, if you understand that this is dealing with section 22, you make the mystery even deeper that you should then go on to say that there is anything wrong with the proposal we are now discussing. We are proposing that in future a commissioner will have the right to carry out both functions unless one of the parties objects. All that has to happen where a party to the proceedings believes that something that was said during conciliation proceedings could prejudice that person's position should the event have to be arbitrated upon, is for him to say: 'I object'. If he objects we are then back to the position that now appertains. We are back to exactly where we were. Once an objection is taken it is fatal. The person who dealt with the proceedings up to that point has to retire from the case, and another person who had nothing to do with conciliation proceedings enters the picture and proceeds to carry out the arbitration proceedings. 
I said in my second reading speech that I was not prepared at this stage to knock out completely the separation of conciliation and arbitration powers. I said that the Government proposed to continue the experiment for a little longer. I acknowledge that there may be some merit in separating the 2 functions but I do not want to see the farcical position that now operates continue for much longer where, in order Vo get around the present provisions of the Act, presidential members have had to invoke sections of the Act that would allow them to use both conciliatory and arbitral functions. By a mere device which, if tested, would probably be found to be illegal they have brought about the very situation which we now say should be formalised. All that needs to be done by anybody who wants one man to step out once conciliation has broken down and arbitration has to be entered upon, is for him to object. The new Act will provide for the objection to be upheld. The honourable member for Phillip can cite plenty of examples of how the present system has not worked. I will not enlarge upon them because there are many of them. 
I am sorry, sir. There are plenty of them. The honourable member for Phillip, who is a practitioner in the field, and who has only just left this jurisdiction as a court advocate and an advocate before the Commission, can cite plenty of examples. I will now resume my seat so that he may do so, because what I would have to say would only relate second hand the first hand information that the honourable member for Phillip can give to the Committee. 
I have plenty of them. I have a whole bag full of them here. 
No. The honourable gentleman can cite them to you. 
I rise only because members of the Opposition do not understand the Bill. In a very helpful manner I should like to try to put them right on this clause. The way that the clause will work - and let us not get stirred up about it - is that the employee or union official who has been victimised, to use a word that paraphrases the complaints or the offences in the provision, is required to lay a charge, launch a prosecution and prove the facts. Once he is able to prove the facts it becomes, as a consequence of this amendment and not of anything which is already contained in the Act, a defence on the part of the employer to satisfy the court that: 
the act or thing done or proposed to be done by the employee was or would have been unlawful under the civil or criminal law, otherwise than by reason only of its being a breach of contract of the employment; and 
the conduct of the employer that is the subject of the charge was reasonably justified by reason of the unlawful nature of the act or thing referred to in paragraph (a) of the subsection. 
Proposed sub-section (2B) states: 
In a prosecution for an offence arising under paragraph (c) of sub-section (1A), it is a defence if the employer satisfies the court that - 
the act or thing which the employer intended to dissuade or prevent the employee from doing would have been unlawful under the civil or criminal law, otherwise than by reason only of its being a breach of a contract of employment; and 
the conduct of the employer that is the subject of the charge was reasonably justified by reason of the unlawful nature of the act or thing referred to in paragraph (a) of this subsection. 
If employees at a particular factory decided to knock off work to listen to the Minister for Labour and decided to remain off work until they felt tired of listening to what the Minister for Labour was saying, it would mean that they would have the whole day off, in which event the employer would be able to satisfy me court that his conduct that was the subject of the charge was reasonably justified by reason of the nature of the behaviour of the  employee  concerned. 
Much has been said by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  about this terrible reversal of the onus of proof. He is already smiling because  I  think that he realises that he has put his foot in it again. The honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  does not think it is funny because he has a very sharp, penetrating and agile mind and has already discovered that the subsection, as to which the honourable member for Moreton complained that the onus of proof was being reversed, was put into the Act by his party when it was in government. It is nothing new. That is already in the Act. I will read it to die honourable gentleman. Subsection (4.) of section 5 states: 
In any proceeding for an offence against this section, if all the facts and circumstances constituting the offence, other than the reason for the defendant's action, are proved it shall lie upon the defendant to prove that he was not actuated by the reason alleged in the charge. 
Yes. This is an umbrella sub-section which applies to all those that rest within the section. That is not new. That is the section of which the honourable gentleman complained, but that section is not a section we put in the Act. It is not a section that is being injected into the Act by this Bill; it is a section that was there all the time. This section has been unaltered by the 
Bill, and I read what it states: 
In any proceeding for an offence against this section, if all the facts and circumstances constituting the offence, other than the reason for the defendant's action, are proved it shall . . . 
So it is quite clear that the section as amended by the Bill will still place the onus upon the employee or the union official to prove all the facts and to prove all the circumstances constituting the alleged offence, and when that is done the Bill, not the Act as it now stands, gives the employer for the very first time another defence. The defence is that which is set out in proposed sub-section (2a) and sub-section (2b). I will not read them again. So the honourable gentleman is complaining about something which has been in the Act ever since 1928. It has remained in the Act ever since that time without being altered by the governments that followed its introduction by a former nationalist government, and now the honourable gentleman makes this wonderful discovery. He has now discovered that the Bill is injecting into the Act the reversal of the onus of proof, when it has been there all along. If this is the nature of the Opposition's real objection to the Bill so far, all I can say is that its objection is based upon rather flimsy ground. I know that the honourable member for Stirling, having heard that explanation, can see the point. Even though it has escaped the notice of the honourable member for Moreton I am certain that the honourable member for Stirling can see it, and I would hope that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  can also see it. 
 The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  just cannot seem to understand what words are all about. He said that, even if an agreement had the most shattering economic effects, there is nothing anybody could do about it. 
Not even me? 
Even if I exercised my fullest authority? 
There is nothing I could do about it? 
What the honourable gentleman seems to have missed is an important part of the amendment which states: 
. a member of the Commission shall not refuse to certify a memorandum- 
That means an agreement - 
-It continues:  or make an award ... in accordance with this section unless he is of the opinion that - 

 a major detriment to the public interest would result from certifying the memorandum or making the award or order. 
For your information, conversely it means that if the commissioner thinks it is going to cause a major detriment, which is another way of saying a shattering economic effect, upon the community, he would not make an agreement. 
The people we have on the Commission now are the people appointed by the previous Government. 
We have not appointed any yet. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  appointed, I think, 6 commissioners in October, just before the election. Some did not take office until after the election. So, we have all those and all the others who are still there. I take it that they are men of great erudition, intellect and especially integrity. 
That is right- a major detriment. A thing that would have a most shattering economic effect on the nation would be the sort of thing the commissioners would most certainly move in to prevent. But of course the honourable member for Moreton, who wanted to try to make a point, just could not control his glib tongue; so he said: Let us see how bad I can make it sound'. So, lie said that even an agreement that had a most shattering economic effect on the country could not be stopped. The right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  who is sitting at the table virtually said that the honourable member for Moreton does not know what be is talking about and that he is talking through the back of his head. I have heard the right honourable member for Lowe say it about the honourable member for Moreton before. One minute the honourable member for Moreton was Vice-Admiral of the Fleet and the next minute he was sweeping the deck. That is why I believe the right honourable gentleman was so amused when he heard the honourable member for Moreton chattering away about the most shattering economic effects. 
Well, will the honourable member for Moreton give him one of those messages 1 ask him to convey to him each week? Will he convey another one? Tell him that 1 am well and I hope that he is, too. The amendment goes on to say: 
Where- 
the terms of a memorandum in respect of which proceedings . . . come before a member of the Commission include terms of a kind described in any of the paragraphs of sub-section (J) of section 31; and 
the member is of opinion that the question whether the inclusion of those terms would result in a major detriment to the public interest should be considered by a Full Bench, he shall report to the  President  accordingly, and the  President  may, if he thinks fit, refer that question for consideration by a Full Bench- 
-It does not matter how many steps it is. The honourable member who interjects took more than 2 steps to get here this morning but he got here, it does not matter; 2 steps are not many. I should like to remind honourable gentlemen opposite that last year we had the waterside workers agreement which was heard before a lawyer,  Mr Justice  Moore. Parts of it dealt with hours and were before the Full Bench. The courts have not hesitated to approve of these agreements, even when they altered hours. They did it in the case of the containerisation industry and the stevedoring industry and they will, of course, do it again when they are satisfied that it does not result in a matter of major detriment to the public interest. The Opposition is really hard done by if it is trying to seize on this. 
The main purpose of the Bill is to settle industrial disputes - disputation between management and labour. If we find that it is possible for people to settle an industrial dispute by way of industrial agreement, why should they not have the right to do it? Under the Act as it now stands, as a consequence of amendments made by honourable members opposite when they were in government last year, there is the ridiculous situation in which, although the parties concerned enter into an agreement to settle a dispute, a member of the Commission has the right to set the agreement aside. But in setting the agreement aside he immediately creates the dispute which the agreement sought to remedy and to end. Although the agreement ends the dispute, the previous Government said: 'Oh, but that is no good to us; we want an Act that will force the Full Bench to open up the dispute again by disallowing the instrument which settled the dispute'. 
If honourable members opposite would disallow every agreement that has any economic effect- 
The word 'shattering' is not in the Act, thank goodness. It is like the 'fullest' of co-operation. It is a word we do not see put into Acts. I have never seen the word 'shattering' in case law spelt out by the judges; I do not suppose we ever will. That was a phrase that was coined by the honourable member for Moreton a moment ago. The honourable member can always be relied upon to use some exaggerated expression and this was another example of it. Nowhere in this or any other Act is there any mention of shattering. The existing Act mentions something being contrary to pub ic interest. The law now gives the Full Bench the right to set aside an agreement which settles a dispute, but the moment it sets aside the agreement which settled the dispute it opens the dispute again. Surely that is simple enough for Opposition members to understand. 
I think the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Birrell)  is right, perhaps it is not quite simple enough. But I do not care if the Opposition wants to waste time arguing about these silly little points- 
This is not a matter of major public interest. We are concerned about major public interest but the Opposition is not talking about major public interest, it is talking about something that is not in the Bill. The Opposition is saying that the Bill proposes a situation in which major public interest would not be taken into account but it would, and anything which had a shattering effect on the economy would, of course, be a matter of major interest to the community and would be covered by the Bill. Anyhow, honourable members opposite can go on for as long as they like, it does not worry me. 
 I should like to explain to the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  what is at the heart and core of this clause of the Bill. We who have been brought up in the trade union movement - and on this side of the House there are about 20 who have spent a lot of their working lives as trade union officials - know perfectly well that you can lead a horse to water but you cannot make it drink and that you can make an agreement but you cannot make the members accept it. Making an agreement in a board room with the employers' representatives is one thing, but getting the members to honour the agreement outside is another thing, as union officials and management have often learned to their dismay. If we want conciliation to work it has to be carried out in a democratic way - not in a bureaucratic way. If we want the rank and file of a union, who are covered by an agreement or, if you like, a consent award, to honour that agreement or consent award they ought to be consulted because it is their labour that is being bargained and sold. The union representative is their agent and he has, in my view, every obligation to consult his principals on the kind of agreement that he ought to make on their behalf. If he does not do that he cannot complain and neither can the other party to the agreement complain if the principals repudiate the agent who acted in their names. lt is not good enough to say that in respect of the negotiation of agreements the unions' chief officers or their management committees stand in the shoes of the membership. They do in respect of the ownership of property, they do in exercising property rights; they do in exercising certain other statutory obligations and requirements which are set out in the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act; but they do not and they should not be seen to be standing in the shoes of the membership in relation to the negotiation of an agreement. When the agreement is put to the membership and the membership has an opportunity of considering it, if the agreement is accepted by the membership, who are bound by it after they have had it explained to them, the agreement becomes the agreement of the members - of the union in its real sense - and it is binding and should be honoured and carried out by those members. But when the agreement is made behind the closed doors of some board room and the people who have work under it - those who have to sell their labour under the terms of the agreement - are not even consulted, is it any wonder that they repudiate the agreement about which they have had no say at all? Half the trouble with industrial relations today is that the membership are not taken into consultation to the extent that they should be. 
Of course, it is by union officials. That is what I am saying. When I was the Secretary of the Australian Workers Union we used to negotiate agreements with the- 
Consideration interrupted. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)  - Order! lt being 10.45 p.m. and in accordance with the order of the House of 1st March, I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
The answer is no. Where the rules of the organisation provide for it the rule will operate. It is only where the rules of an organisation do not provide for it that, notwithstanding the omission on the part of the union rules, the vacancy can be filled by the management committee of the union pending another election. That is all. It would mean that where no provision was made in the rules for this action to be taken this amendment would enable it to be done. Otherwise the office would have to remain vacant till the end of a 3-year term. The amendment is to cover this situation only. 
Workers will go on strike whatever the law may have to say about it. That is the clear experience right throughout history. It is the clear experience of the history  l,'  compulsory arbitration in Australia. It is the clear experience of the history of industrial relations in every other country. Indeed, workers will in certain circumstances go on strike notwithstanding guns and armoured tanks. They will go on strike where they believe that they have a grievance that it is no longer possible to bear, and it is only proper that free men should remain free enough to be different from slaves in this regard. 
I thank the honourable gentleman. Our experience coincides with experience in other countries such as the United States, England and the European industrial nations. The common law of conspirancy and the statutory prohibitions which flourished in the 19th century in England and in America were impotent to suppress strikes. Pitt's Combination Act failed to suppress trade unions. Whether or not a strike takes place may be seen, to some extent, to depend upon the strength of a country's army or police. But outside a totalitarian dictatorship no government can suppress concerted stoppages of work and no democratic government should want to stop concerted stoppages of work by people who can no longer bear the burden of wage injustice.  Mr Justice  Higgins in 191 1 put the position succinctly when he said: 
The power of the employer to withhold bread is a much more effective weapon than the power of the employee to refuse to labour. 
-It was said in 1911 and it is as true today as it was then. That is a statement by the late  Mr Justice  Higgins who was very properly quoted yesterday with approbation by a  speaker  on the Opposition side of the chamber. 
Thank you. He remarked on the fact that although in theory the court had the power to decrease wages as well as to increase wages every case he had ever handled had been to interfere by making an increase in wages. I quote him again: 
The reason seems to be that the employer needs no court to enable him to reduce wages, he has simply to refuse to give employment at wages which he thinks are too high. 
What the judge said is perfectly true. The employer cannot be forced to employ at a rate that he thinks is too high. An employee ought not be forced to labour at a rate that he considers to be too low. 
Thank you. I should like the names of the 4 gentlemen who agreed recorded in Hansard. They are: the honourable member for Stirling, the honourable member for Berowra, the honourable member for Moreton and the honourable member for Mackellar. A strike is not an end in itself to the working man. It is a means, at great sacrific to his pay packet and to the proper support of his family, to achieve social and industrial justice. 
A lot has been said about the penalty which I did propose a couple of years ago for people who breached voluntarily negotiated agreements which had been submitted to the rank and file for approval and had then been registered. But without any statutory penalty, as was then proposed, there is a penalty today that is oddly enough almost identical with the penalty that was then proposed. Today a man with an average weekly earning of $100 can be penalised that amount. It so happens that by coincidence the amount of pay that he receives when he is working is about $20 a day. If the strike lasts for 5 days the penalty that he has to pay and the penalty that his wife and little kiddies have to pay is $20 a day. They pay this penalty just as effectively as if any other form of penalty were imposed. Why on earth people believe that men who go on strike to rectify a deep seated grievance do so merely to be cantankerous is completely beyond me. 
No one in this Parliament who has not been on strike without pay and who has not known what it is to go home empty handed each day has any right to pretend that he knows what sort of anguish and what kind of sacrifice a working man must endure to exercise his right to strike. He is not paid social service benefits. He is not entitled to strike benefits from his union because there are very few unions in Australia today with sufficient funds to afford to pay strike pay. The richest union in Australia today could not afford to pay strike pay for any more than 10 days if the whole of its membership went out on strike and needed strike pay. The richest union by far would finish up insolvent after 10 days. So it is idle nonsense that we hear from the Opposition side about the right to strike and the need for strike penalties. Never forget when talking about strike penalties the penalty that a working man pays every day that he is on strike because he gels no wages during thai period. 
If the Opposition succeeds in destroying this aspect of the Bill by having it eliminated in another place, the responsibility for all the industrial disturbances that follow will be sheeted fairly at its doorstep. I say on behalf of the Government that we cannot ensure sensible industrial relations if, by using its power in another place, the Opposition forces the Government to try to administer a law that incorporates this form of penalty. The Government says bluntly that if the provisions that it now asks the Parliament to approve are refused, or if the Opposition denies to the Government the amendments to the Act for which it is seeking approval, it cannot ensure industrial peace and tranquillity in this country. Even with these amendments it cannot guarantee that there will be no strikes at all. I have never said that there is within the wit of man the power to evolve a statute that will eliminate all strikes, but I do say that without the powers that the Government is now seeking and without the amendments to the Act that it is asking the Parliament to grant in this Bill, the Government cannot maintain industrial sanity and it will not be the Government's fault if it fails to do so. It will be the fault of the Opposition parties. 
They will be the ones who will have to carry the responsibility for refusing the Government the implementation which I now seek of the mandate that it was given. Oliver Wendell Holmes in a decision of the Supreme Court of Massachusetts in 1896 wrote something which has never been quoted in this Parliament but which should now be recorded. The learned judge said: 
Combination on one side is patent and powerful. Combination on the other is the necessary and desirable counterpart, if the battle is to be carried on in a fair and equal way ... If it be true that working men may combine with a view, among other things, to getting as much as they can for their labour, just as capital may combine with a view to getting the greatest possible return, it must be true that when combined they have the same liberty that combined capital has to support their interests by argument, persuasion, and the bestowal or refusal of those advantages which they otherwise lawfully control. 
Let us always remember, when we are talking about penalties against men who withdraw their labour because they discover they are not being given for their labour the amount which they believe the market will yield or which they believe their labour is worth, that the right of the working man to strike is a very essential element in his armoury of protection against arbitrary action by his employer. Let us never forget that the history of relations between master and man is replete with examples of arbitrary changes in the task to be performed, the times allowed in which to perform it and the reward paid for performing it. 
Change without consultation has been one of the most significant sources of industrial disputes right throughout the industrialised world. The main cause today of industrial disputes is failure to consult - management standing on the so-called sacred rights of managerial prerogatives and saying that the worker is nothing but a servant, that the manager is the master, that the old 18th century relationship between master and servant still survives and that no spiritual, temporal or any other power of the Parliament, unions or anybody else should interfere with this long-established but longoutmoded so-called right of managerial prerogatives. Even though there may be more consultation nowadays than there was in the past, change without consultation still remains the greatest source of provocation and is frequently the cause of strikes. 
Strikes are very often caused not by what is done but by what is done without consultation. Trade union leaders, particularly those at the factory floor level, are sensible enough people to understand when the facts are put to them  what is fair and what is unfair. My experience has taught me - since I have been a Minister I have had further exemplification of it - that when a person puts the facts fairly to the union leadership they will accept them. Even though the facts spell out some change that is detrimental to the union they will accept those changes if people will but take the trouble to confer with them. People should consult fairly, honestly and meaningfully with union and labour leaders. 
In such a situation as we have today where consultation is not considered to be a necessity, a strike can often prove to be far more expeditious than any legal procedure in meeting and overcoming an unacceptable decision taken unilaterally by management. Where management acts unilaterally it has no cause to complain if labour reacts unilaterally. It is as simple as that. In such a situation the sanction is the kind of self help which the law is often too slow to supplant. The strike weapon is the equivalent of managerial prerogative. Whatever the law may say, it cannot suppress spontaneous action in response to unilateral change in the exercising of a claimed managerial prerogative. People who may not withdraw their labour are in effect being compelled to work by the law. It is conscription of the purest form. The converse meaning of the law stating that a person must not with- draw his labour is that he must work and work under conditions of provocation and of deeply felt injustice. Many strikes appear to occur as a release of psychological tension. The coal mining industry before mechanisation, especially in the days of hand hewing in low and awkward seams, was commonly the scene of a large number of spontaneous stoppages the true explanation of which was the need of the miners to get out of the dark into the sunlight where other mortals live, work and, if they are privileged, play. 
This amendment and the other amendments I have mentioned which grant immunity from the law of torts are quite crucial to the Government's industrial relations policy. If we are denied the tools which we require to give effect to our undertaking to bring about a more healthy industrial relations climate in this country, the fault will lie with those who refuse to give us the tools. Give us the tools. If we fail to deliver the goods then honour able members opposite can fairly blame us, but they cannot blame the Government for failing to give effect to its undertaking to introduce a more healthy climate in industrial relations if they refuse to give us the tools which we say we need to do the job. 
 I move: 
After  proposed sob-section  (1A) insert  the follow ing proposed sub-sections:  (1b)  Where, at an election in respect of an office within an organisation, being an office referred to in paragraph (a) of sub-section  (1),  no valid nomination has been received - 
except where paragraph  (b)  applies, the com mittee of management of the organisation; or 
where the members entitled to vote at the election are some or all of the members of a  branch of the organisation, the committee of management of that branch, may, notwithstanding the rules of the organisation, within the period of 12 months that commenced on the closing date for nominations in the election, appoint an eligible person to hold the office for a period not exceeding the remainder of that period of 12 months, but a person shall be elected to the office in accordance with the rules of the organisation within, or as soon as practicable after, the period of that appointment as if the holder of the office had died and the appointment shall cease upon the election of such  a  person. (lc.) Sub-section (1b.) applies in relation to an election in respect of which nominations closed before the date of commencement, of that sub-section as if the references in that sub-section to the period of 12 months commencing on the closing date for nominations were references to the period of 12 months commencing on the date of commencement of that sub-section. (1D.) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of sub-section (1.), the rules of an association or organisation may make provision in accordance with sub-section (1B.).'. 
I indicate that my Party's industrial committee at its meeting yesterday decided that there were some technical defects in the drafting of clause 5. This deals with the definition of office'. When giving our instructions to the Draftsman we injected into the definition of office' an element which was not intended by the instructing committee. It takes the position of 'office' far beyond that which my Party intended to apply. Just one example of this is in relation to the Federated Ironworkers Association. They have a situation where officers are people who attend their federal conference and their councils. They are elected indirectly by the membership through what could be described as a collegiate system. This is not what we were aiming at. We were aiming at management committees. This will also have a direct bearing on some of the things contained in clause 50 which will be amended by what I am now suggesting. My Party will be looking at this. The drafting committee of my Party will be meeting and it is almost certain that some changes will be made. But we will indicate this in another place rather than hold up the proceedings of the Committee at this stage. I mention this now to give honourable members a warning of the fact that the committee will be bringing down some amendments. I cannot indicate the nature of those amendments just yet but they will be indicated to the Senate. 
 The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  has made a very worthy contribution to the debate. I do not dismiss out of hand the proposal that be has put forward. I do not, of course, adopt it either. It is a pity that the honourable gentleman was so shy about this amendment, that he kept it such a dark secret until a few moments ago. Had the honourable gentleman felt so keenly about this matter, with his long experience in Parliament, he would have known that where a member wants something adopted the technique to adopt or the political finesse that one has to follow is to go to the Minister concerned a few days before the debate is called on and say: 'Well,  Sir, 1  have a proposal here and I would like you to consider it'. That is the fair, sensible thing to do. If it were done in that way my committee would have looked at it in depth and if the committee, in the fullness of time and in its judgment, believed that what the honourable gentleman put forward had merit in it we would be in a position, of course, to adopt it. But it is not fair of the honourable member to throw  a  thing into the. ring at this late stage and say: Adopt it or else'. I am sorry I cannot oblige the honourable gentleman. If he had been a little more co-operative than he has been in this matter perhaps we would be in a position to say: 'Yes, we have considered it and it has some merit.' I am sorry, but in the circumstances I cannot entertain it. 
 I think this is the most important section of the Bill. 
Yes, there is no doubt about its being the most important because unless this section of the Act is attended to in the way that we propose, and if employers continue to resort to civil actions and to sue for damages from torts alleged to have been committed in respect of industrial action, the whole conciliation and arbitration system will collapse. 
-It will collapse. 
The honourable member for Stirling interjects and asks: 'What about injunctions?' Always, when resort to civil actions is taken the 2 things that are asked for are that liability be found by the courts and that an injunction be issued against the person in the box - the defendant - to refrain from continuing the action which he is then taking. Time and time again we see that this is the method which is used. What is the penalty for failing to carry out the injunction? It is goal. 
As my learned friend, the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby),  points out, look what happened in America with injunctions. It must be understood that what we are really proposing here is that we should not permit the provision for monetary penalties for strike actions to be taken out of the Act and another provision put in its place - in fact we do not need to put anything in the Act; we need only let the law stand as it is - that will be far more severe than the mere imposition of monetary penalties upon a union or a corporate body. What this clause proposes is to prevent the replacement of monetary penalties upon a union with a law that allows individual penalties of imprisonment upon officials of unions because the simple process - to follow the interjection of the honourable member for Stirling who knows the law so well - is to make an application for an injunction, having first of all established liability for torts, and then if the person does not refrain from the action which the injunction seeks to restrain him from continuing he is arrested and taken to prison.  Mr Robinson  of the Builders Labourers Federation has already been one victim in Adelaide. He stayed in prison. The only thing that unions can do in these circumstances is to have somebody take the place of the man who is gaoled and for him to give the instruction for the boycott to continue, and as each person who gives the fresh instruction is prosecuted, tried, issued with an injunction and gaoled, somebody else will take his place until the gaols are full of honest, decent hard working men who have never committed a crime in their lives but who find themselves standing side by side with murderers, common thieves, pickpockets and prostitutes. Is this what you want to do to honest decent working men? That is what will happen if the law of torts is to be applied to union officials in respect of industrial actions. 
I endorse the conclusion of 2 English scholars who in a recent publication of the Fabian Society wrote: 
The imperative need for a social power, countervailing that of property, over-shadows everything else. If the workers are not free by concerted action to withdraw their labour, their organisations do not wield a credible social force. The power to withdraw their labour is for the workers what for management is its power to shut down production, to switch it to different purposes, to transfer it to different places. A system which suppresses the freedom to strike puts the workers at the mercy of the employers. This - in all its simplicity - is the essence of the matter. 
That states the position fairly so far as I am concerned. The law of torts serves the primary purpose of deciding who must bear a loss caused by accident or design - the party who suffered the loss or the party who brought about the state of affairs which led to the loss. That is the basic principle of the law of torts. In its application to industrial disputes the law of torts must be regarded as defective if it does not harmonise with the accepted standards of industrial conduct. And it does not harmonise with accepted principles or standards of industrial conduct if you envisage a law which gives courts the right to serve an injunction upon a man who has no intention of observing :t and then arresting him 'and having him incarcerated as a common criminal. 
As I have pointed out the effectiveness of the organised working people to protect and advance their conditions of life is based to a significant degree on the power of their unions to organise a withdrawal of labour as the last resort. The occurrence of a strike in itself signifies a break down of industrial relations in the industry in dispute, and even with the best will agreement may not be possible. A serious negotiation may not even have been attempted. A disputes procedure may be wholly inadequate for the problem in hand. The strike may be the culmination of a long period of mistrust and resentment or it may be totally unexpected. There may be a considerable gulf between the merit of the case in industrial terms and the rightfulness of the action taken in point of law. Who would have thought there would have been a strike flare up at Pilkington'* in the United Kingdom 3 years ago after a period of more than a century during which there had not been one single day's stoppage? Suddenly, without any change in the officials of the union concerned, there was a strike involving some 8,000 men. 
-It was caused by somebody forgetting to include dirt money in a man's pay envelope and not correcting the omission when the next pay was due. Because of a failure to pay 3 shillings in dirt money a strike blew up at Pilkington's after 100 years of peace and quietness. A prime consideration for reform in this branch of the. law lies in the fact that the law of tort can do little to promote good industrial relations, but bad law can cause a lot of harm. I warn those honourable members opposite who are really concerned about good industrial relations that resort to the law of tort will not bring them about. It will exacerbate the position that now operates and we will go from a bad position to an even worse one. 
Union officials and strike leaders should not be penalised for inherent defects in our system of industrial relations when industrial action has been taken for the purpose of furthering the strikers' legitimate interests. Over recent years we have seen a number of cases brought to recover damages and to restrain action taken in respect of an industrial dispute. A fear - a genuine fear - is held by trade unionists that employers will, with the aid of the civil courts, introduce a new weapon which will turn the history of this country back just as the working people are coming out into the light. 
Acts against the combination of working men were passed on several occasions between the 14th century and 1800. The judges of that time regarded union organisation as criminal conspiracy.  Mr Justice  Grose., in the famous case of the Crown v. Mawbey, said: 
As in the case of journeymen conspiring to raise their wages: Each may insist on raising wages if he can, but if several meet for the same purpose it is illegal and the parties may be indicted for conspiracy. 
I have been asked whether I have anything better than that to rely upon. The law, as exemplified in the decision in the case of Rookes v. Barnard, rested upon digging into the graveyards of legal history and dragging out and rattling the bones of skeletons long since interred, with, in most cases, the disgrace which they brought upon the judges that gave vent to them. 
In the case of Rookes v. Barnard, to which I have just referred and which was decided in 1964, the plaintiff claimed that he was dismissed from his employment because his fellow employees, who belonged to  s.  union from which he had resigned, had intimidated the employer into making a decision to dismiss the plaintiff by threatening a strike which was in breach of their contracts of employment. A breach of contract was an unlawful act. The threat of an unlawful act had caused the employer to take the step of dismissing the plaintiff. He claimed damages as compensation for his loss of employment. The defendant employees were, of course, enforcing the principle of the closed shop. The Court of Appeal held that the plaintiff had no cause of action. The House of Lords held that he did and overruled the Court of Appeal. The law is riddled with injustice. 'Injustice Within the Law' is what Judge Evatt called one of his books. One has only to read it to realise that this is one of the greatest injustices of all. 
It is not for English lawyers to like or distrust the principles of the closed shop, for they are all members of a society which itself lives within and thrives on the principle of the closed shop. The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  raises his eyebrows and thinks of the lovely brief he got a couple of weeks ago. He will smile more when his solicitor gives him a cheque for his work. He would not be in the fortunate, privileged position in which he is now but for the closed shop among the legal fraternity. The honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  sits in his seat pursing his lips, smiling and getting ready to write out a bill for undertaking his next brief, ls it any wonder those honourable members smile? What a wonderful thing it is to be a lawyer. It is all right for lawyers to have a closed shop. It is also all right for doctors to have one. 
I am again obliged to the Minister for the Capital Territory and Minister for the Northern Territory. It is all right, particularly in Queensland. But it is a bad thing for the unions. The attitude is: 'If we find them doing it we will take action for torts against them. We will get an injunction served on them. If they do not give way we will shoot them into gaol with all the pickpockets, prostitutes and criminals there and treat them as ordinary criminals - not as decent, upright and honest working men but as criminals of the worst order'. 
It is true that out of 250 unions registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act I have received telegrams from 35 of the 41 officials who intend to send telegrams to me. The telegrams are respectfully worded. 
One actually ends with a prayer, although on reflection I think that was one advocating support for abortion reform - I cannot remember. But all the telegrams were very respectfully worded. The protests are against clause 50 of the Bill which prohibits future registration of any union rule which would have the effect of depriving the rank and file of that union of a direct vote in the election of the members of the union's management committee. I must say that the telegrams are couched in pretty technical terms. They are fairly easy to read, however, because most of them bear the same wording, so this assists. The telegrams support the collegiate system of electing officials  -  a system which means that delegates elected by the rank and fi'e elect the officials or certain of the officials. The collegiate system does not allow the rank and file a direct right to vote for their paid officials. But another basis of the opposition is the cost of having a rank and file ballot of the whole of a union's Australian membership. This is put as a very strong reason why the collegiate system ought to be permitted. I think this particular opposion to the Bill will disappear when it is understood that machinery is provided in the Bill to allow the cost of Commonwealth elections to be met entirely by the Commonwealth. Elections can be asked for, which will cost the unions nothing, but I dare say that part of the opposition to the collegiate system will disappear when the position is understood. 
Clause 50 does not apply to existing union rules which permit the collegiate system for the election of federal secretaries. It is nearly impossible to draft legislation that would cover all the various kinds of collegiate systems already in operation. But we can prevent and we intend in the Bill to prevent any future registration of union rules that would have the effect of depriving rank and file members of a direct vote for their officials. 
There is, as I said yesterday, a slight technical defect, not so much in clause 50 as in clause 5. I have mentioned this to my committee and we are examining this question before the Bill goes into the Senate. I have not written to the Australian Council of Trade Unions but I have kept in touch with the ACTU for several weeks. This Bill was introduced into the Parliament nearly a month ago. Copies of the Bill have been widely circulated. I must congratulate the 3 union officials who took the main brunt of organising the telegrams for the response they have managed to bring about because the campaign did not seem to get off the ground until yesterday morning and already 35 of the 41 telegrams that can be expected have come in. 
The honourable member for Mackellar will be disappointed to learn that Laurie Car michael and Jack Mundey have not sent me telegrams of protest. He will be disappointed to learn that the Waterside Workers Federation of Australia, the Seamen's Union of Australia and the Miners Federation also have not yet sent me telegrams of protest. The honourable member will be surprised or, perhaps, pleased to learn that none of the trade union officials who normally support the Democratic Labor Party point of view has sent me a telegram but there has been a fairly broad spectrum of points of view represented in the telegrams that I have received. Some of them are from unions that are not even affiliated with the Australian Labor Party, but that does not matter. It is their right to send me telegrams and I welcome them. The Government will always lend a sympathetic ear to any reasonable request put to it by the working peop'e of Australia. There are 4.5 million working people in this country, 2.5 million of whom are rank and file trade unionists. They are our voters and that is why- we support the point of view they put, when it is a reasonable point of view. 
Pursuant to section 5(1.)(c) of the Stevedoring Industry Act 1956-1971, I present the annual report of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority for the year ended 30 June 1972 together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
This matter has been raised with me on several occasions by the honourable member for Darling. He saw me last week and he saw me two or three times in the previous 3 weeks. 
Yes, he is concerned about the people in Broken Hill and I understand his concern for them. I have discussed the matter fully with the honourable member. I have since then been studying the metropolitan and non-metropolitan unemploy ment relief schemes and shortly will be in a position, I hope, to make a submission to Cabinet on the whole question. It is true that, as a consequence of the rapid improvement in the employment situation, labour shortages in certain areas and particular occupations are now beginning to appear. As the general level of unemployment falls still further these shortages are almost certain to become more acute. Only this morning I heard on the radio serious criticism of the unemployment relief scheme which, as everyone knows, the previous Government was forced to intoduce in order to take up the tremendous slack in employment opportunities. This changing employment situation is steadily altering the needs for these unemployment relief schemes. I think we have reached the stage already at which the metropolitan unemployment relief schemes will have to be phased out excepting in special instances where there is still some need for them. 
I should like to indicate to the Parliament the areas that 1 have already chosen as areas that will still need some assistance because of the special disabilities from which they suffer. I might add that I have had a number of requests from local governing bodies asking that the scheme should not be interrupted even in areas represented by some Country Party members. The places that I have chosen as areas that should be retained within the non-metropolitan unemployment scheme are Broken Hill, Cessnock, Gosford, Grafton, Kempsey, Lismore, Parkes, Tamworth, Taree, Ayr, Bundaberg, Cairns, Ingham, Innisfail, Ipswich, Mackay - I had talks recently with the Minister for Northern Development who presented a strong case for the retention of Mackay in the scheme - Mount Isa, Toowoomba, Townsville, Port Lincoln, Port Pirie, Bunbury, Medina and Devonport. It would seem that an immediate, straight-out termination of the scheme is just not feasible. To do this would cause great hardship in the areas that I have mentioned. They are not the only areas; there could easily be others that one would have to include. 
I believe we have, however, reached the time when no more funds ought to be allocated for relief of unemployment in most of the metropolitan areas after the present scheme cuts out at the end of June. I believe steps should be taken to phase out the existing non-metropolitan unemployment scheme over the next 12 months or even a shorter period if possible. The phasing out in some areas will need, of course, to be more rapid than in others but while the scheme is being phased out completely I think that a local initiatives program ought to be introduced and restricted to areas where it is considered that the incidence of unemployment is in excess of the Australian average and where Commonwealth funds to relieve it can produce the best and most desirable local results. 
For the information of honourable members I present the text of Convention No. 131, concerning minimum wage fixing, adopted by the International Labour Organisation conference at its 54th session in 1970. The relevent laws and practices are in conformity with the Convention. Subject to the approval of the Federal Executive Council, the Government intends to lodge instruments of ratification in respect of the Convention with the DirectorGeneral of the International Labour Office as soon as possible. 
 in reply - I rise to close the debate. I should like to compliment the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  on the quite thoughtful contribution that he made to the debate. Usually, one does not expect to have a meaningful debate on a matter so technical as this. Today has been an exception. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  although he made some statements with which I would find myself in disagreement, nonetheless touched on important aspects of International Labour Organisation conventions, the ratification of conventions and what is involved in the ratificcation of conventions. In particular, I want to compliment the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  on his speech.  His  was a very down to earth, sensible contribution which really touched upon the main issues about which ILO concerns itself. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition expressed the view that the Government was taking on too much and was ratifying too many conventions. I can say only that unless we start ratifying soon some of the conventions that were agreed upon over the last 30 or 40 years, we will be so far behind that we will never catch up. It seems to me to be a rather odd position for a government to take, whether it be a Liberal government or a Labor government, that it will send its represenatives to Geneva, will participate in debates, will speak in favour of the ratification of conventions, will vote for the ratification of conventions, will use its voice and vote to tell other people that they ought to ratify and support the principles contained in conventions and then promptly forget all about them and do nothing about the matter. Unfortunately, that has been the experience of the Australian Parliament for the past 23 years. Former governments - not only the McMahon Government but also the Gorton Government, the Holt Government and the Menzies Government, in that reverse order - did practically nothing to ratify the conventions. 
I realise that to ratify conventions, the Commonwealth Government must obtain the approval of the State governments because they have sovereign rights. They are looked upon as being sovereign governments and because of this, with a federal system such as we have, those 6 governments must be consulted and must agree before ratification is possible. I know that this is not terribly easy to arrange. I have discovered however that the State governments will react much more sympathetically than one would be entitled to believe, judging from what appeared to be the progress made during the last 23 years. I was very quick to bring to the notice of the State Ministers in charge of labour the need to give Australia an opportunity to take its proper place among the nations of the world and I was agreeably surprised by the alacrity with which those State governments, Libera] and Labor alike, responded to my plea for their co-operation. I cannot speak too highly of that co-operation. 
As a consequence of this, we have been able to reach the position where we are able to ratify, or have already ratified, something like 8 conventions in the short period that we have been in government. I believe that to be a very laudable effort on the part of the present Government. We have ratified the important Convention No. Ill which strikes at discrimination on grounds of sex, politics, religion or colour. Although it is not a convention which calls for or can be implemented by statute, it never did require more from the Commonwealth than a declaration of intent. Why on earth we had failed to give that declaration of intent when all of the things specified in the Convention were things with which I would think every fair-minded Australian would find himself in agreement is completely beyond me. 
We are still consulting about the other Convention relating to discrimination. I refer to Convention No. 100 which is designed to prevent discrimination on grounds of sex. My Government is considering this matter right now. We have made contact with the Ministers in charge of labour in the States. 1 have talked with them myself and again I found - not so much now to my surprise, because I had overcome the first surprise earlier - a healthy response and understanding on the part of the State Ministers for the need to ratify this Convention relating to discrimination on the grounds of sex. My Department has taken a great deal of interest in this matter since I became Minister for Labour. We believe that we are now very close to reaching agreement with the States on the ratification of Convention No. 100. 
I firmly believe in the principle of equal pay. I have never heard anyone in this Parliament from either side declare publicly - some honourable members may say so privately at cocktail parties - that he does not believe in equal pay or that he has certain reservations about it. One good reason for not doing so is that little more than one-half of the people who vote on election day are women and women are starting to stand up on their hind legs - if they have hind legs; I do not know what women do - and demand some proper recognition. They are not prepared to be treated any longer as fifth-rate citizens. They want some right to determine their own destiny. They are not prepared to send male people into this Parliament- 
Yes, male people, people like yourself, 1 assume, who come into this Parliament to put a purely male point of view. I think that many honourable gentlemen opposite who are smiling at this idea of women standing up for their rights might find that they will lose either their smile or their seat after the next election if they do not pay proper heed to what women are thinking. 
That is why I am determined to ensure that the principle of equal pay is introduced into the Commonwealth Public Service as quickly as is possible. To me, it is outrageous that the Commonwealth Public Service should seek to take advantage of the phasing in period which the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission gave to private employers for the purpose of introducing equal pay for the sexes. What right has a Government instrumentality like the Public Service Board to treat itself as the spearhead of employer attack upon employees and trade unions? It has absolutely no right to play that sort of role in the affairs of the nation. I am moving right now to resolve the question of the keyboard groups who, because they are not attached to an equivalent male group, are finding it more difficult than other female groups have in the past to show that they are not being paid along the principles of equal pay. I am greatly in the debt of the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  for the superb role that he has played and is playing in bringing about equal pay for women in the Public Service. The Government has taken steps to give women a better deal than they have ever had before in the question of maternity leave. If honourable gentlemen opposite ever thought they could qualify for maternity leave they would not be so niggardly as they are now about having maternity leave extended to employees of the Commonwealth Public Service. 
The same thing applied in the national wage case. Again the Government decided to intervene on the side of women to ensure that they received the same pay as men. I think we all ought to express our indebtedness to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission which in its recent judgment decided that the increase in the total wage of $2.50 plus 24 per cent should apply to men and women alike. That is to the great credit of the Commission. I was impressed by what the Deputy Leader of the Opposition said about ILO documents. He criticised the ILO for not producing any documents. 
Yes. 
Thank you very much. I am obliged to you. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition said that the ILO has never produced any documents. That is not true. It would be more to the point if he said: 'I have never bothered to read any of them.' I am pleased to say that a very senior officer of my Department, who is advising me right now, is a lady from the Central Office - Miss Braybrook. It is most appropriate that the Department had the good sense to send a lady to advise me and to advise anybody who wants to talk to her about this matter. The thing that surprises me is that a lady of her qualifications is still only at class 8 of the Third Division. So whilst ladies can get jobs, they find it very difficult to get a rating that a man would get if he were in the same position. 
I have no power to fix it - I wish I could - but I hope that the Public Service Board is listening. I will send it a copy of my speech, which is the best way to make representations. I hope that the Board will take note of what I have just said. Miss Braybrook has informed me that there is a mass of material produced by the ILO. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition will be delighted to know that I have issued instructions for all this material to be sent to him. When he reads it I will be glad to hear his comments upon it. 
Of course I have. How could I make a speech like this if I had not read the material? It is true that the ILO documents do not match the sophistication of the documents of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, but the ILO is dealing with a different level of nationhood - with emerging nations, with nations that are just coming out of the darkness into the light - whereas the OECD is a rich nations' club. It is an entirely different proposition. Of course it is putting out better or more sophisticated material. But to suggest that the ILO is doing nothing is to indicate either gross ignorance of the true position or else a refusal to read the material that has gone across the honourable gentleman's desk in former years. 
But I agree with something else- that he said, and that is that civil servants expect Ministers when they go to the ILO conferences merely to grace the proceedings and not to participate in the proceedings. He said that there ought to be more opportunity for discussions to take place at ministerial level. I agree with this. I have already arranged, by a request that I made to the Prime Minister, that the Deputy Leader of the Opposition as the official spokesman on labour relations should represent the Opposition and should be given the opportunity to attend the ILO conference. For the first time in the history of the Australian Parliament an official representative of the Opposition will be attending the ILO conference this year. On my return I will be seeking leave to make a statement to the Parliament on my impressions of what is happening at the ILO, and the Opposition's official spokesman will follow me and say what he thinks about it. At the points where we diverge the House can intervene, debate the issue and say whether it agrees with my viewpoint or his. I think the House will be struck by the degree of unanimity which we will reach on the things that ought to be done and which are not now being done. 
Thank you. I agree with the honourable gentleman that civil servants want to monopolise these overseas and international conferences. One civil servant said that the reason they did not ask State Labour Ministers to go to the ILO conferences was that the Commonwealth could not trust the State Labour Ministers to represent a proper, sensible Australian viewpoint. That is not my view. It is not the view of this Government. It may not have been the view of the former Government, but this Government trusts the State Labour Ministers as much as it trusts the heads of the State departments. I have sent out a letter in which I have told the State Labour Ministers that from now on the invitation will go to the Ministers and not to the permanent heads of the particular departments. It is lucky for the permanent head of the New South Wales Department of Labour that this year he received his invitation before I got into power. So he will get his trip, but he will be the last permanent head of a State depart ment to go to the ILO to represent a State. From now on it will be the Minister and not the permanent head. That is how it should be. 
As we have to rely upon the approval of the sovereign States before we can ratify a convention it ought to be the Ministers and not the civil servants who attend the convention to decide what their particular State should do. I would like to see State Labour Ministers from all the States financed through their respective State governments even if they have to combine their ILO interests with some other mission abroad. I would like to see all the State Labour Ministers go to the ILO conventions each year. We will pay the cost of one of them. The other 5 States ought to meet the cost of the other 5. If they find it possible to go, my Government will see that they are given the status of a visiting Minister, that they are serviced with the secretariat facilities that we have available there and that they are given all the courtesies and attentions which a Minister of State is entitled to demand. If more would do this, more good would come out of the ILO activities. 
The honourable member for Mackellar spoke about the effect of convention No. 87 - Freedom of Association. The honourable gentleman sought to drag in China, Albania, Spain, Saudi Arabia and Portugal to show that this convention is not being recognised. ILO convention No. 87, which Australia has ratified, has been examined by a committee of experts in the light of our Conciliation and Arbitration Act. In November of last year it reached agreement on all matters except on the question of amalgamations of trade unions. The committee felt that it was possibly an impediment to the ILO provisions that a government should intervene and prevent amalgamations or dictate the terms upon which amalgamations could be brought about. These matters are now being overcome and we can now say, as a consequence of what a committee of experts of the ILO has told us, that there is no reason to believe and it is quite wrong for the honourable gentleman to suggest that the Government of his own country is being deceitful about a thing like this. Part of the agreement which made it possible to ratify the convention concerned was made by his Government. It is just as much a reflection upon the former Government as it is upon the present Government for any person in this place to say mat the 
Government of his own country is being deceitful or dishonest. We are not being dishonest and we are not being deceitful. What we are doing has been carefully thought out and has been talked over with the States. Tripartite conferences have taken place between the Government, the employers and the unions. It is quite unfair and it ill becomes the honourable gentleman to suggest such things, lt is not like him to write down his own country and he ought not to do it. Whatever else he does he ought not to write down his own country. This Government has acted properly in the matter. I resent the suggestions made by the honourable member. I hope that now that he knows the truth he will not make the suggestion that anybody beside himself might make, that we are double dealing the rest of the countries of the world in this respect. The honourable member need not bother making a personal explanation because he knows that he said these things and that is all there is to it. :  Mr WENTWORTH  (Mackellar)- I wish to make a personal explanation. 
 in reply - This has been a very exciting debate. We have had the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  opening with the suggestion that the stevedoring industry ought to be nationalised. He said that he could see great merit in having everybody employed by the one authority. That, of course, means nationalisation. I do not say that he is wrong at all. That is a question that he will have to settle later with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch).  But the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition himself is a character who seems to have lived up to his reputation.  His  reputation is that of a person who is very much like a clockwork toy. You wind him up and he buzzes across the table until he runs out of steam. Then he sits down laughing with a note in his hand. That is what he did tonight. 
I think the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition should make certain that what is on the note is not true. That would be more to the point. I dare say that this matter will eventually get into the Press. It is impossible to keep out of the Press now what was on the note. If it ever does get into the Press the honourable gentleman will find it hard to hold his deposit. 
The honourable member for Wakefield started off with a trenchant criticism of the previous Government. It must have been that because that is what he described it as. He said: 'I know that this is a trenchant criticism of the former Government.' But is it not a funny thing that we had to wait all these years for the honourable gentleman to come clean. 
Only tonight after all these years do we find out that for years now he has been harbouring this resentment, this smouldering hatred of the former Government and his dislike for the way that it ran this industry. I agree with the honourable gentleman that we must have permanent arrangements for this industry and that those arrangements have to be worked out without delay. I have said that already. It needs to be done; it has to be done. Why has it not been done before, one might ask. The answer to that is easy enough: Have a look at the former Ministers. They are the reason for this situation. They were just not able to grapple with this situation. 
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition, in order to make the strongest possible case against me, in his belief that I was in favour of public control of the industry, said this: The Minister at the table in his saner moments has engaged- 
According to the honourable gentleman my saner moments were when I was murmuring about public control of the industry. To him that represented my saner moments. It may very well be that he is right. Who knows? The honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  was attacked for what he described 3 times as the panacea for the waterfront industry. The word 'panacea' is one that he likes using. It rolls off the tongue nicely, so let us use it wherever we can. The honourable member for Wakefield described the honourable member for Phillip as advocating nationalisation as the panacea for the stevedoring industry. Well, perhaps it is the panacea for the stevedoring industry. 
When one looks at what is going on in the stevedoring industry now, when one sees the extent to which the stevedoring companies are controlled - in some cases owned completely - by foreign shipping companies working on a cost plus basis, as the honourable member for Wakefield very correctly said: 'Is it not about time that we thought about some other form of control?' If we discover, as  Sir Thomas  Playford did some years ago in regard to the electricity supply in South Australia when it was brought under State control, that the best way of control is to put it under Commonwealth control, why not do the same in this field? Why shrink from public control of something if we come to the same conclusions as  Sir Thomas  Playford did in regard to the Electricity Trust of South Australia? Perhaps if we examined it we might also reach the same conclusion as a Liberal Premier of Victoria once reached in respect of the gas industry in that State when he reached the firm conclusion that the proper way to control the gas industry was to put it under public control. That is why the gas industry in Victoria is publicly controlled at this time. 
There is nothing wrong with public control. It does not necessarily follow that everything is right under the control of private industry. If anyone had any doubts about the inefficiency of a privately owned undertaking one would have only had to listen to the honourable member for Wakefield tonight to know that what he said was correct. If it is any satisfaction to the honourable member, we do not rule out the possibility of nationalisation of the industry. Of course we do not. If we are satisfied that that is the proper thing to do that is what we will do - make no error about it. I am grateful that the honourable member for Phillip, who is still sitting in the House listening to me, put forward the proposition in this debate because if we discover on an examination of all the facts that that is what ought to be done, that is what will be done. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The honourable gentleman has been pressing me persistently for the provision of a Commonwealth Employment Service office at Cannington. I can assure him, and he will be pleased to know, that steps have been taken to see that this facility is provided. I expect that it will be opened within a reasonably short time, and I shall be writing to the honourable gentleman to ask him whether he will represent me officially at the opening of the office. 
I am advised that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. Members of the Waterside Workers' Federation and other maritime unions have on a number of occasions, withheld labour for cargo handling or berthing facilities from vessels the crews of which have been in receipt of wage rates below levels specified by the International Transport Workers' Federation (ITF). 
See answer to No. (1) above. 
, (4) and (5) No records are available which would enable the information requested to be supplied. However delays to which individual vessels have been subjected have usually been less than a week. 
Recently, the WWF Branch in Fremantle refused to supply labour to certain vessels flying the Singapore flag. This action was discontinued when it became known that the Singapore Government had set up an inquiry into wage rates and conditions for seamen on vessels of Singapore nationality. Presumably the Singapore Organisation of Seamen has no present grounds for concern on this matter. 
The actions of the Waterside Workers' Federation have been in support of a campaign sanctioned by the ITF and aimed at improving wages and working conditions of seafarers throughout the world. The Waterside Workers' Federation has taken such industrial action in its capacity as agent of the ITF in the Pacific region. 
It is expected that any increase in freight rates brought about by Asian shipowners paying higher wages will apply equally to all traders who use the shipping services concerned. 
Actually, it was a fairly large union. 
Yes, it was a large national union. There may be other unions like it; I do not know. But that is a matter that we will examine. I have already had a talk with  Mr McKenzie  about this. We will ask that there be an examination of union rules to ensure that where there is any relic of this discrimination against a person belonging to a union on the ground of race, the matter is brought to the notice of the union concerned. The union will then be given an opportunity to amend its rules to make them comply with the convention to which I am now referring. If complaints cannot be dealt with in the ways that I have mentioned, the investigation officers of the secretariat will seek information from the parties concerned. In cases of discrimination covered by the convention, they would then attempt to resolve the matter using their good offices. There will be no attempt to prosecute or to bludgeon the persons who commit the offences into submission; they will simply have pointed out to them the enormity of the thing and how unjust it is for a system like this or for such a thing to be permitted in this day and age in this country. 
Where this intervention does not produce a solution, the. matter will be referred to the State Committee which will operate in whatever manner it considers most appropriate to resolve the matter in accordance with the declared policy. Where a matter cannot be resolved in this way by the State Committee, the State Committee will be free to send the matter to the. National Committee. It will be mandatory to do so where the case involves questions of principle and matters involving interpretation of the requirements of the policy. It is envisaged that reports of complaints considered by the State Committees will also be published in the annual report so that the world at large can see who in Australia is disregarding this important human rights convention. 
 In answering the honourable member's question, I have assumed that he is asking for information about employees in my Department, that is temporary and exempt staff, and not about officers who are permanent members of the Commonwealth Service. On this assumption I am advised that the information is as follows: 
Total number of Temporary and Exempt Employees employed by the Department of Labour as at the end of February 1973. 
Of that number 110 have been engaged since 4 December 1972. Seven are on my personal staff and the remainder have been employed to offset staff wastage within the Department. 
by leave - The Australian Government has decided to ratify the convention adopted by the International Labour Conference in 1958  -  No. Ill - abolishing discrimination in employment and occupation. This will be the third ILO human rights convention ratified by Australia in the period since the present Government came to office, the others being Convention No. 87 - Right to Organise, 1948; and Convention No. 98  -  Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining, 1949. Only one ILO human rights convention will remain unratified - No. 100 which deals with equal remuneration for work of equal value. I am consulting the State Ministers for Labour with a view to early ratification of that convention. 
The House will recall that the Whitlam Government in the very early days of its reign briefed counsel to intervene in the national wage case to support the application by the Australian Council of Trade Unions for equal pay for work of equal value. To a large extent the application was successful. The Conciliation and Arbitration Commission provided for a phasing in operation which my Government, of course, does not accept as being essential, at any rate so far as the Commonwealth Public Service is concerned. We are currently discussing ways and means of making it possible to give effect to the principles enunciated by the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in respect of equal pay, so that females employed by the Commonwealth may have the benefit of the judgment of the Commission in respect of this important matter. 
The extent to which ILO convention No. Ill has been accepted as a basic human rights instrument is demonstrated by the fact that 79 countries have ratified it. The ratification of this convention is a very important step. We regard it as a most significant step and we are proud to be able to announce that it was this Government, after such a short period in office, which has been able to ratify that important convention. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  is about to leave the chamber. If he will come back the honourable gentleman will find this speech of mine very important because it does deal with human rights. The ratification means that Australia is at last joining with the other responsible members of the international community in affirming opposition to discrimination in employment and occupation. It testifies to the Australian Government's determination to remove discrimination in employment and occupation from the Australian scene, not simply by removing cases of blatant discrimination but also by taking positive action to promote real equality of opportunity in employment. 
Discrimination is an anti-social offence. That is how the Government sees it and that is what it is. It affects not only those people who are directly affected as active agents or as its victims. It is as much a matter of general concern as any other social problem. It is a human rights problem. It is a moral problem. It is an economic problem. To practise discrimination is to practice injustice, intolerance and all of the things against which a Christian nation ought to turn its back. To ignore discrimination is to ignore injustice. In purely economic terms the community as a whole loses its investment in education and training, and individuals lose their own inputs in time and effort if they are prevented from accepting occupations or employment commensurate with their qualifications and experience because of discriminatory practices. 
Discrimination in employment and occupation must have an adverse effect on the overall productivity of the work force. If certain people are denied the opportunity of joining the work force because of some reason associated with religion, politics, race, sex, nationality or any other factor like that, productivity must suffer because fewer people than the number otherwise employed are working in the work force. It reduces the capacity of individuals and groups to earn wages and salaries at levels to which their qualifications, skills, experience and ability rightly entitle them, thereby restricting their capacity to improve their standard of living. 
Discrimiation can take many forms. It can be the result of racial hatred, blind prejudice, fear and intolerance, or, in some cases, ignorance. I have seen examples in this Parliament of the discrimination that comes from blind prejudice where certain members of the Parliament have stood in this place and made speeches based upon blind prejudice accusing upright, decent Australians of being enemies of the State and agents of a foreign power, based purely upon political hatred and political prejudice.. It is not always easy to determine whether particular action constitutes discrimination; it is very difficult indeed. I anticipate that the pursuit of the policy of non-discrimination in employment and occupation will throw light on such cases. Such cases and such issues should not be put aside or swept under a carpet of community apathy. Instead they should be examined, clarified and, if necessary, acted upon. 
Provisions of the Convention 
International Labour Organisation convention No. Ill is unusual among international labour standards in that it requires the declaration and pursuit of a policy, rather than compliance with specific standards. Most conventions specify specific standards and require compliance with those standards. This convention is a declaration of intent, a declaration of a government's policy, in this case in respect to discrimination on grounds of politics, religion, race, nationality or sex in employment or in employment opportunities. The convention requires ratifying countries, first to declare a national policy designed to promote, equality of opportunity and treatment in respect of employment and occupation with a view to eliminating any discrimination in respect thereof, and, secondly, to pursue the policy enunciated in accordance with the range of action specified in the convention. For the purpose of the convention, discrimination' includes any distinction, exclusion or preference made on the basis of race, colour, sex, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin which has the effect of nullifying or impairing equality of oppportunity or treatment in employment or occupation. 
I would like to emphasise at the outset that this statement and the ILO convention are concerned only with discrimination in employment and occupation. Of course, discrimination can occur in a much wider range than simply in the employment field. For example, it can occur in the field of housing, admission to organisations, clubs and societies, access to public places and facilities, access to finance and participation in sport. South Africa is a glaring example of the last instance to which I have made reference. However, this convention is not concerned with these kinds of discrimination. Any distinction, exclusion or preference in employment based on the inherent requirements of a particular job or special measures of protection or assistance provided for in other ILO conventions or recommendations are not deemed to be discrimination within the meaning of this convention No. 111. 
Measures affecting individuals justifiably suspected of, or engaged in, activities prejudicial to the security of the state are not deemed to be discrimination under the convention, provided that the individual concerned shall have the right of appeal to a competent body established in accordance with national practice. So if a person belonged to a subversive organisation and he was likely to be a threat to the security of the country, of course we would have a right to exclude that person from employment in sensitive areas of government where his bent or prejudice could be of detriment to the country's security. So I want to make it clear that when we talk about discrimination in employment we are referring to discrimination of that kind where the nation discriminates for its own protection. The AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy)  is considering the establishment of an appeals commission which would, among other things, cover this sort of situation. 
We say that where discrimination is practised for the purposes of safeguarding the nation's security, that discrimination has to be justified. There has to be a real justification for its use. Therefore, a person against whom a veto is made in regard to employment must have a chance to appeal against the decision in order to establish, if he can, that it is based upon wrong premises. As I said, we propose to do that. Apart from declaring a policy, the convention requires a ratifying country, by methods appropriate to national conditions and practice: 
to seek the co-operation of employers* and workers' organisations and other appropriate bodies in promoting the acceptance and observance of this policy; 
to enact such legislation and to promote such educational programs as may be calculated to secure the acceptance and observance of this policy; 
to repeal any statutory provisions and modify and administer instructions or practices which are inconsistent with the policy; 
to pursue the policy in respect of employment under the direct control of a national authority; 
to ensure observance of the policy in the activities of vocational guidance, vocational training and placement services under the direction of a national authority; and 
to indicate in its annual reports on the application of the convention the action taken in pursuance of the policy and the results secured by such action. 
Application of the Convention in Australia 
Ratification of this convention by Australia requires declaration of the policy as defined in the convention. This statement fulfils that requirement. Secondly, it requires that the policy be pursued. I shall deal now with the action already taken or proposed to fulfil the requirements for specific action I have listed. In pursuing the policy the Government is relying quite heavily upon a program of action drawn up by a tripartite working party established by the National Labour Advisory Council for this purpose. Here I acknowledge this initiative of the Council when my predecessor, the Honourable Phillip Lynch, who is sitting in the wings of the chamber, was  chairman.  Goodness only knows whether his Cabinet would have allowed him ever to have ratified the convention. It probably would not have done so, but that Cabinet no longer exists and today we have a forward-looking Cabinet which acts promptly in ratifying these kinds of conventions.- 
I shall deal with each requirment separately. The first requirement, requirement (a), is to seek the co-operation of employer and worker organisations and other appropriate bodies in promoting the acceptance and observance of this policy. I have already written to the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Associated Chambers of Manu factures of Australia and the Australian Council of Employers Federations to seek their co-operation in promoting the acceptance and observance of the policy. In the near future I shall be writing to other employer and worker organisations to advise them of the policy and to seek their co-operation in pursuing it. 1 shall also be writing in the same vein to such groups as the United Nations Association and its associated Committee on the Status of Women and to significant bodies representing Aboriginals, women and religious groups. Naturally the Government will be relying also on the support of Federal and State members of Parliament. I am pleased that so many honourable members have seen fit to remain in the chamber while I explain this important convention to the Parliament. The Government will rely also on the political parties in ensuring that the policy is made effective. In addition, I have sought the cooperation of the State Ministers of Labour both for ratification and for the program of action to give effect to the requirments of the convention. I am happy to report that all of them have agreed to ratification and to the program of action. At this stage I thank personally the State Labour Ministers for the fine degree of co-operation which they have given to the Commonwealth and to me personally. They could not have been more helpful. I hope that their co-operation will be acknowledged by their respective States, whether they be Ministers of Labour representing Liberal Party governments, Country Party governments or Labor Party governments. The 6 Ministers are entitled to the fullest credit and fullest commendation for the way they have co-operated in giving effect to these International Labour Organisation decisions. 
The second requirement, requirement (b), is to enact such legislation and to promote such educational programs as may be calculated to secure the acceptance and observance of the policy. In its workers education manual, Fighting Discrimination in Employment and Occupation', the International Labour Office has pointed out that legislating against discrimination does not necessarily remove discrimination. We need more than legislation. We need more than penal sanctions against discrimination. What we really need is education - to educate the public to resent and to turn their backs on discrimination and to reject discrimination not because they fear penalties for discrimination but because of a deep sense of the injustice which is entailed in discrimination. Overseas experience suggests that fundamental changes in community and individual attitudes are necessary before discriminatory practices can be eradicated and, especially, before the more positive goal of achieving a situation where everyone has equal opportunity in employment and occuptation on the basis of their own abilities, their own qualities and their own desires can be achieved. 
These are, course, long term tasks requiring the creation of a climate in which discrimination will wither away by reason of the fact that people in our society will have become enlightened enough to want to see an end to discrimination. Moreover, where there is legislation to outlaw discrimination, the obtaining of convictions can present difficulties and the number of convictions can give the impression that an anti-discriminatory policy is working whereas indicators relating to the relative employment positions of various groups can show at the same time that very little real change is occurring. Furthermore, in the Australian context statutory machinery already exists in some areas for dealing with alleged discriminatory action; for example some industrial tribunals in respect of dismissals and Public Service Board appeals machinery in respect of promotions and dismissals. Where these established arrangements are appropriate for dealing with cases it would be undesirable, in my view, to interfere with their operation. 
Finally, the adoption of comprehensive legislation would require complementary Commonwealth and State legislation and this would inevitably, of course, delay action. We do not want delay. We are prepared, willing and determined to do everything necessary to eliminate delay so that we can begin the great work which is in front of us and which we are now obligated to undertake by the terms of convention No. 111. It is for these reasons that emphasis is being placed on promotion of a climate of opinion favourable to the policy of equality of opportunity by education programs and by seeking to resolve discriminatory situations by conciliation rather than by legislative and court action. However, this does not preclude legislation either on a particular matter or generally at a later stage should the need for such action become evident. Should that need arise, my Government will not hesitate to legislate to prevent discrimination. I would be surprised to find any opposition from the other side of the Parliament to such a proposal. One thing, I am sure, on which the Parliament is united to a man is the elimination of discrimination in this field. 
In view of the emphasis placed on developing a climate of opinion favourable to achieving the objective of equality of opportunity in employment and occupation, it is esential that a wide range of educational programs should be developed. In the first instance it is necessary to publicise the Government's policy and the availability of the machinery at the national and State levels. I am arranging for a wide distribution of this statement and for the preparation of articles, pamphlets, posters and other information designed to foster public understanding and acceptance of that policy. I am pleased to say that in my Department we have a senior officer, with people under his jurisdiction, who is noted for his tremendous grasp of ILO conventions and ratifications and of ILO policies and machinery. Perhaps no other person in the southern hemisphere has a better grip of the subject than  Mr Keith  McKenzie of the Department of Labour. He is actively pursuing the policies which I have just outlined. Right now he is supervising the preparation of material, pamphlets, posters and other educational material. He will see that it is distributed as widely as possible, and he will do all things possible to ensure that this is not just an empty gesture but that what I am making today is the announcement of a policy of a real, determined intention by the Government to stamp out the kind of injustice to which I have been referring. 
In carrying out these activities I am enlisting the support of organisations and groups and I have mentioned some of these under a previous heading. I shall also be calling on the Women's Bureau of my Department ;o broaden and intensify its activities in the field of women's employment, paying particular attention to promoting equality of opportunity for women and co-ordinating the work of other agencies and organisations involved in this area. I am pleased to say that the Women's Bureau is being strengthened. Its Director,  Mrs Lyne-Brown,  has been involved in the discussions that were necessary for this paper to be prepared. Tomorrow she will be brought to die Parliament to listen to the debate on paid maternity leave, if that debate is called on tomorrow. But in any event, she will advise and consult with me on questions affecting women generally. 
In association with my colleague, the. Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland),  I shall be seeking the support of the media, particularly of newspaper proprietors, in publicising the policy and the avenues open to people who consider they are victims of discrimination. A difficult and complex matter to be faced is the elimination of discriminatory practices in advertising job vacancies. It is not so long ago that advertisements or notifications that appeared in the Government 'Gazette' actually discriminated between sexes. My Government has taken steps to ensure that the Government 'Gazette' shall not discriminate between sexes and that positions that are vacant shall be advertised without any reference being made or preference given to a male as against a female. Requirement (c) is to repeal any statutory provisions and modify any administrative instructions or practices which are inconsistent with the policy, and requirement (d) is to pursue the national policy in respect of employment under the direct control of a national authority. Action has been taken in recent years to remove, from legislation and awards those provisions which discriminated in employment on the grounds of race or colour. 
In relation to discrimination on the basis of sex, action taken in the Commonwealth and State jurisdictions has brought legislation, awards and administrative practices into closer conformity with the convention. An examination of the Commonwealth Public Service Act and Regulations and administrative instructions is currently under way with a view to removing any remaining traces of discrimination against women in the Commonwealth Public Service. Any instances of sex discrimination in awards will be taken up with the unions and employers concerned. I am sorry to say that there is within this Capital Territory now a discrimination against women in the engagement of apprentices. This is not the Government's fault; it is not the employer's fault; and it is not wholly the unions' fault. But it is the fault of someone. It is perhaps the fault of the 3 of them jointly. But this is something which we propose to take up with the parties concerned as soon as possible. 
The Parliament will be glad, of course, to recall that my Government recently appointed Justice Evatt, a most outstanding woman in the. law, to the Bench of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. She is presidential member of the Commission. This appointment was not simply a gesture to women. We were able to appoint Justice Evatt to the position because she had better qualifications in our view than anybody else offering, men or women. That is why we appointed her. It was not an empty meaningless gesture to women but a recognition .aid acknowledgement of the tremendous capabilities and competence of a woman. She has taken up her duties and is already carrying them out with great distinction to herself personally and to the Commission of which she is now a presidential member. So far as is known there are no legislative and administrative instructions or official practices which discriminate in employment on the grounds of religion. There, may be some cases in practice where there is discrimination on grounds of political opinion, national extraction or social origin within the terms of the convention. There may be and there probably are some cases of discrimination in practice, but there is none in theory, or if there are any such cases in theory they will be removed as soon as we are able to identify them. 
Requirement (e) reads: to ensure observance of the policy In the activities of vocational guidance, vocational training and placement services under the direction of a national authority. 
The Government will ensure that the national policy is observed by the vocational guidance, vocational training and placement services under its direction. In the vocational training field I am advised that present practices are in accordance with the convention's recommendations. My Department is examining existing arrangements with a view to ensuring that all categories of persona have equal access to vocational guidance and receive equal treatment in this area. Particular attention is being given to Aborigines and to women in this regard. In the operations of the Commonwealth Employment Service, what is involved is drawing up guide lines to eliminate the discriminatory practices associated with notifying and filling job vacancies; for example, where employers specify that only men should be referred to fill vacancies which could be filled by women, or specify that they do not want Aborigines. 
Initially it is intended that the CES should not refuse to accept discriminatory notifications of vacancies or to deal with employers who adopt discriminatory attitudes towards persons referred to them for employment. This sort of stringent approach could work only where the Government employment agency had a monopoly of placement services and even then may simply result in discriminatory 'gate' engagements. However, the CES itself will operate in a completely nondiscriminatory way. The Government has control over the CES and it will exercise that control to ensure and to guarantee that there is no discrimination at the level of the Commonwealth Employment Service. For example, if a discriminatory notification of vacancy is received the CES will refer those who are considered to be the most suitable applicants irrespective of the discriminatory specification. In addition, the possibility of making eligibility for contracts involving the expenditure of public funds dependent on observance of the principles is being examined. Requirement (f) reads:  to indicate in ite annual reports on the application of the convention the action taken in pursuance of the policy and the results secured by such action. 
In accordance with the obligations it accepts on ratifying the convention, the Government will ensure that this is done. 
Committees on Discrimination in Employment 
The Government will establish machinery at the national and State levels to deal with allegations of discrimination in employment and occupation. The National Committee on Discrimination in Employment will be organised on a tripartite basis and comprise an independent  chairman  and other representatives appointed by the Government plus one representative of employers and one of the trade unions. I have already asked the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Associated Chambers of Manufactures and the Australian Council of Employers' Federations jointly on the employer side to nominate their representatives. I have the name of the ACTU nominee and before the week is out 1 hope to be in a position to give the names of all of the members of the national committee. The House will be pleased to learn that the  Chairman  of the Committee will be an outstanding Australian - a very great Australian who is widely respected and whose appoint ment will be endorsed by both sides of the Parliament when it is announced. I cannot announce his name just yet, but it is a name which will attract the unanimous support of the Parliament when it is announced. 
The Committee will be assisted in its operations by a panel of expert consultants, including academics, and people drawn from Government agencies, women's groups, Aboriginal groups and religious denominations and bodies. The pleasing thing I am able to say is that the Government is going to set the first example by cutting through all forms of discrimination that are based upon a person's politics, religion, sex, race or nationality. When I announce the membership of the various committees the House will recognise that the Government is practising what it preaches because the people who have been chosen to sit on the various committees will be people of outstanding competence and ability whose politics, religion, race or nationality will be outside the popular ones. They will be appointed because this Convention gives effect to a policy of no discrimination on the grounds of politics, race, religion, nationality or sex. 
The main functions of the Committee will be to consider allegations of discrimination in employment referred to it by State committees, to interpret the requirements of the national policy, to promote equality of opportunity in employment and to advise the Government on the necessary action to ensure full compliance with the policy. Other functions will be to co-ordinate the national education campaign to which I have already made reference, which is designed to promote equality of opportunity in employment, and to undertake studies, possibly involving the panel of expert consultants, on various topics in this field. The Committee will publish regular reports on cases it considers, and provide an annual report on its activities in which it will assess progress in implementing the policy and make recommendations to ensure the effective application of the policy. I shall table those reports in the Parliament. The Parliament will have the opportunity, if it so desires, of debating the reports tabled each year. So honourable members from both sides of the Parliament will be able to become involved in this laudable objective of removing completely from this part of the globe discrimination in employment. 
As I have already mentioned, the National Committee will be" asked to advise the Government on forms of discrimination not covered by the ILO Convention itself - for example, discrimination on the ground of age, which is considered to require action in Australia. There is a lot of this going on in Australia today - far too much. Too often one sees advertisements in newspapers of vacancies which stipulate that no one above 45 years of age should apply or that applicants must be between 25 and 35 years of age. Too much of this goes on in Australia today. We are determined to see that it is eliminated. Sometimes the elimination of it will require retraining, perhaps relocation and some vocational guidance, but we are determined to ensure that whatever is needed to be done is done to put an end to the idea that at 45 years of age a man is dead from an employment point of view. 
The ILO convention is concerned with specific grounds of discrimination in employment, but it makes provision for extension after consultation with representative employer and worker organisations and with other appropriate bodies, into other areas where abolition of discrimination might be pursued, for example, discrimination in employment on the ground of age. The Government therefore proposes that it will be open to the Committee machinery to receive and investigate cases alleging discrimination in employment on grounds beyond those listed in the convention. The Government is not content just to eliminate discrimination on those grounds specifically referred to in the convention. We are determined to go beyond the requirements of the convention, to move into areas of discrimination not mentioned by the convention at all - al] areas of discrimination no matter upon what ground the discrimination is based. The National Committee will then be in a position to advise the Government on other forms of discrimination in employment and occupation considered to require action in Australia. 
One important result of the operation of the National Committee will be that for the very first time it will be possible to make an informed estimate about the extent to which discrimination in employment and occupation exists in Australia. Whether this objective is achieved will depend on whether people bring examples of discrimination in employment and occupation to the Committee's attention. I hope that anyone having a genuine grievance will not hesitate to tell the Committee. The State committees will be organised on a tripartite basis with an independent chairman, 2 government representatives, and one trade union and one employer representative. One of the 2 government representatives will be nominated by the State government concerned and the other will be nominated by the Australian Government. The main function of the State committees will be to consider allegations of breaches of the national policy relating to discrimination in employment and occupation. 
This question is not altogether without notice. The honourable gentleman has taken this matter up with me quite strongly over the few days that have elapsed since my statement in the Parliament, and I have had representations also from other honourable members from Western Australia. 1 have not heard anything from Opposition supporters but I have from Government supporters. I am impressed by the case that has been put to me by people representing Perth and also by the case that has been put to me by the honourable member for Hawker on behalf of people, in certain parts of Adelaide. There is a case for not cutting off the unemployment relief scheme in certain metropolitan areas - in certain cities and in parts of certain cities. At the moment I have a submission before the Cabinet subcommittee. I cannot tell the House, any more about it at this stage. But in due course the Prime Minister will announce the outcome of that submission and when he does everybody in the House, except those who want to see the scheme fold up so rapidly as to cause hardship, will toe please.d at the Government's decision. 
I move: 
That the  Bill  be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to repeal section 54b of the Public Service Act consequent upon the Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Bill. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lynch)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Bill is to extend the maternity leave entitlement presently available to Australian Government employees. The proposed legislation will entitle female officers and employees to at least  12  weeks' maternity leave on full pay. This will apply irrespective of whether they were pregnant or not when first employed by the Government. The Bill provides that maternity leave shall commence at least  6  weeks before the expected date of confinement and shall continue for at least  6  weeks after the actual date of confinement. If the mother wishes, leave may be granted up to a total of  52  weeks. A minimum of  12  weeks is available on full pay. For the balance of her leave the mother will be on leave without pay, although if she wishes, she may use accrued sick leave, recreation leave and furlough credits. It also provides that each permanent officer proceeding on leave of absence for maternity purposes must be re-employed if she wishes at the end of her period of leave in her former position or in a position at a level as near as possible to the position held by her at the commencement of her maternity leave. 
Temporary employees returning from maternity leave will resume their former employment. If the work is no longer available they will be given preference for employment over any  other  person seeking temporary employment. The Bill also makes provision for an officer or employee who is the father or a person accepting responsibility for the care and maintenance of the child to take up to  1  week's leave, with pay, around the time of the birth of a child where he requires the leave to take care of the mother of a child or of a child. These benefits will apply retrospectively from  1  January  1973. 
This Bill extends considerably the existing maternity benefits available to government employees. Existing benefits are provided by section 54b of the Public Service Act in the case of Commonwealth public servants, section 33 of the Commonwealth Teaching Service Act in the case of the Commonwealth Teaching Service and in the terms and conditions of employment of staff of other Australian Government instrumentalities. The Bill provides directly for maternity leave benefits to officers and employees of the Commonwealth Public Service and the Commonwealth Teaching Service. The associated Public Service Bill No. 3 repeals section 54b of the Public Service Act and the Commonwealth Teaching Service Bill No. 2, which has already been introduced, repeals section 33 of the Commonwealth Teaching Service Act. The Bill also provides for the extension of maternity leave benefits to other Australian Government employees by regulation. The regulations will be made following consultation with appropriate bodies and consistent with the Bill the initial regulations will apply the benefits retrospectively from 1 January 1973. 
Section 54b of the Public Service Act presently provides for an absence from duty of up to 26 weeks, with a compulsory absence of 6 weeks before the expected date of confinement and 6 weeks after the date of birth. Section 54b applies only to permanent officers. There are at present no maternity leave provisions for temporary employees employed under the Public Service Act. Leave under section 54b is without pay, although an officer does have the option of utilising her accrued sick leave, recreation leave and furlough credits to cover part or all of this period of leave. Where there are existing provisions applicable to other government employees, those provisions are similar. The Bill under consideration increases the period of permitted leave, provides for full pay during at least the period of compulsory leave, and extends maternity benefits to temporary employees. This Bill should have the approval of the House. It takes account of representations on the matter put forward by the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations, and will be. applauded by those women in government employment wishing to reconcile domestic responsibilities with a career in the Commonwealth Service or other government instrumentalities. 
All women are likely to be affected. It depends on who is about. But any woman could be affected. Does the honourable member want to know how many women are affected right now? 
I cannot give the honourable member the precise number. I do not suppose anybody could. My information is that it would be in the region of 3,200, give or take one or two confinements including the instrumentalities. 
If one. takes into account all the ancillary costs it would be about $3.3m. But if one deducts from that amount $800,000 which will not apply until the regulations are extended to instrumentalities the figure would be about $2,500,000. The Bill implements the undertaking in the Prime Minister's policy speech that: 
For our own employees we will apply the International Labour Organisation Protection Conventions going back to 1919 which guarantee full pay and benefits for 6 weeks before and 6 weeks after confinement. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  will be interested to know that in granting this maternity leave we are catching up with the eastern European countries such as Bulgaria, Yugoslavia, Romania, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, East Germany, West Germany and in fact some of the western European countries. It is good to know that we are now picking up the backlag und that we are approaching the same kind of conditions which have applied for so many years in those other countries. 
The position in the United States is not as good as it is in the eastern European bloc countries. In this regard it is tragic that the position has not picked up to the standards in these other countries. The plain fact is that it is not as good. In Great Britain the United Kingdom Civil Service has arrangements for paid leave, but of course this does not apply to privately employed women, as the honourable member probably knows. 
They are not quite as generous in the United Kingdom but they are more generous in some of the other European countries than this Bill provides for. 
We are behind some of the eastern European countries. We are ahead of the United Kingdom Civil Service. It is clear that the present Government was elected to office with a commitment to introduce legislation incorporating the principles included in this Bill. The adoption of the Bill will ensure full compliance with the principles set down in Convention No.  103  of the International Labour Organisation - Maternity Protection  1952;  in respect of Commonwealth Government employment. The International Labour Organisation Convention is concerned that the existence of maternity benefits should not result in discrimination against women in employment. It therefore provides that the individual employer shall not be individually liable for the cost of such benefits due to women employed by him. The International Labour Office has advised that it is consistent with these requirements for the Government itself to assume reponsibility for the cost of these benefits in respect of its own employees. I have mentioned already the United Kingdom Civil Service. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! I hate to intervene in the friendly chat that has been proceeding between the Minister and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition but could we proceed with the presentation of the second reading? 
Certainly. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition asked whether there would be any flow-on. The answer is no, there cannot be a flow-on to private employers. It is impossible to have a flow-on. Indeed, if any attempt were made to bring about a flow-on to private employers as a consequence of this, the Government would oppose it. If the matter came before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission the 
Government would be prepared to intervene and officially to oppose it. It would be  contrary  to the ILO Convention. It would be something which would be detrimental, I would think, in the long run, to employees themselves if it did flow-on. The short answer to the interjection which, in a way, I am glad the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition made, is that there will be no flow-on to private employers. 
The Government recognises that it has a role and responsibility, as Australia's largest employer, in promoting the status of women. The Government, therefore, is introducing the new benefits and leave entitlements in respect of its own female officers and employees - I suppose it is not necessary to say 'female' officers - to enable each person concerned to fulfil the role of mother and, if she wishes, to continue her career after the birth of her child. The effect of this Bill will be to maintain the income of the female employees concerned during the period when they are on leave prior to and following confinement. The Bill will also help women endeavouring to pursue their careers on the same terms as men. The provision in this Bill for up to one week's leave for the father or other person responsible should help that person meet the increased domestic responsibilities that arise at the time of the birth of a child. It is in recognition of this fact that the provision has been included. 
There might be some bewilderment about the meaning of 'or other person responsible'. One can imagine the situation of a man marrying a woman who was already pregnant to some other man. It has happened. This would mean that that man who became the legal father or custodian or one responsible for the care of the unborn child at the time of marriage would be entitled, upon the confinement of the wife, to have a week's parental leave, notwithstanding the fact that the child Was not his own child. I conclude by reminding the House that this Bill not only provides improved conditions of employment for Australian government employees but also facilitates the retention of women in the work force. Many of these women are. experienced and expensively trained. This will be of benefit to the Australian people as a whole. I commend this Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lynch)  adjourned. 
by leave - I present the following paper: 
Australian Arbitration Inspectorate - Department of Labour - First Annual Report, for 1972 
The tabling in the Australian Parliament of this report of the Arbitration Inspectorate for the year ending 3 1 December1972 is a historic event. Although the Australian Government first established an Arbitration Inspectorate in 1934, this is the first occasion on which a report of the Inspectorate has been presented to the Parliament. It is, however, the Government's intention that these reports shall in future be presented on an annual basis. As well as the value of the information contained in reports of labour inspectorates, honourable members will be aware of the role such reports have played in the past elsewhere in the world, and particularly in Britain in the development of advanced social and industrial legislation. 
The preparation of this report is a further step towards the Government's objective of early ratification of International Labour Organisation Convention No. 81 of 1947  -  Labour Inspection. I am actively pursuing this matter with my State colleagues and there is general agreement with the objective of achieving ratification before the end of this year. Article 20 of that Convention requires that an annual report be made by the central inspection authority of a member country. As far as possible, this report is in the form required by the Convention insofar as the operations of the Arbitration Inspectorate are applicable. 
The report presented indicates the substantial volume of work achieved by an inspectorate which is completely inadequate effectively to ensure the proper observance of awards of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. At present, the Inspectorate has a total staff including supervisory officers of only 56. These are required to inspect the establishments of some 182,000 respondents to Federal awards throughout Australia. At the present rate of inspections it takes approximately 6 years to cover every respondent to a Federal award although my ultimate aim is to ensure that the inspections take place at least once every year. The Government does not believe that this is a satisfactory situation. It believes that employees working under Federal awards are entitled to expect that the Australian Government's inspection service will ensure that their employers are observing the conditions of the awards at intervals of much less than 6 years. It is ridiculous to have a 6-year interval between inspections. To ensure this, the Government is proposing a major increase in the size of the Arbitration Inspectorate. With the full authority of the Government, my Department has submitted to the Public Service Board proposals for a trebling of the size of the Inspectorate on a phased recruitment basis over the next 2 years with provision for increased clerical support staff. This substantial increase in the establishment of the Inspectorate should enable an inspection to be carried out of every establishment covered by a Federal award at least once every 2 years, in addition to providing an immediate investigation of every complaint which is received concerning breaches of an award. 
While in the past 20 years, the normal source of recruitment for arbitration inspectors has been from within the Third Division of the Commonwealth Public Service, it is the Government's intention that for a number of the new positions, suitable persons outside the Commonwealth Public Service with an appropriate industrial background will be eligible for appointment. It is my intention that such persons would be appointed for terms of 3 years as in the period prior to 1952. The appointments will be made by the Head of my Department and positions will be advertised in newspapers in order to enable people who could offer suitable service the opportunity to apply for such positions. In order to make the Inspectorate more efficient my Department will be arranging for the outposting of inspectors to major rural centres throughout Australia. Members of the Country Party will be pleased with the interest the Government is showing in rural areas by having arbitration inspectors appointed to police properly awards in their areas. More effective training programs will be established for inspectors and my Department is also seeking to obtain from the Public Service Board a number of positions of trainee inspectors. This should enable a much speedier and more effective inspection service. 
I have already indicated publicly that the Government will be taking a much stronger line towards the enforcement of awards by employers. While, as in the past, the aim of the Inspectorate will be to ensure voluntary compliance with awards by employers, a much more serious view will be taken of employers who deliberately or continuously breach awards. In such cases, the offending employers will be prosecuted. Future annual reports of the Inspectorate will list the names of employers who are found guilty by the Court of breaches of awards, in the same way as the Commissioner of Taxation publishes each year the names of persons who are guilty of breaches of the taxation law. 
In the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill at present before the Parliament, the Government is proposing to give power to inspectors to seek an interpretation of an award. In many cases in the past where there was a difference of view between an inspector and an employer over the meaning of a term of an award which could not be resolved, the only solution often was for proceedings for breach of an award to be taken against the employer to test the position. This is like using a steam hammer to crack a peanut. We ought not to be prosecuting employers just because there is no other way of ascertaining the meaning of an award. So, in future, inspectors and the permanent head of the Department will, when the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill is passed, be able to obviate the need for prosecution by resorting to the simple process of making an application for interpretation to the Industrial Court. The amendment, if adopted by the Parliament, will ensure a very much more sensible approach for dealing with this problem. 
In conclusion, I stress that the report that has been tabled today must be regarded as very much a pilot exercise. In the next few months we will be revising our statistical information to ensure that the fullest possible set of statistics relating to labour inspection is contained in future reports. It is also our intention to make the report one for the financial year rather than for the calendar year. Therefore, the next report will cover the period from 1 January 1973 to 30 June 1974. I thank the House for giving me leave to make the statement. 
The answer I provided to the honourable member's question is set out at page 1463 of Hansard of 12 April 1973. I now provide the following information to supplement that answer. 
I move. 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In April last I introduced into this House a Bill to make a number of important amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. I pointed out that this was the first step of a quite radical transformation of industrial relations in Australia proposed by the Government. It was a Bill for which the Government had a clear mandate. The major changes had been outlined in the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  who was speaking on the authority of the decisions of the 29th Commonwealth Conference of the Australian Labor Party held in Launceston in 1971. 
I beg Your Honour's pardon. You are out of your place. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. I am not able to speak for or on behalf of the Australian airline industry. 
No commitment was given. In accordance with the Government's stated policy I was anxious that the principle of equal pay be implemented so that female employees of the Australian National Airlines Commission were no longer subjected to wage discrimination based on sex. I believe that the wage rates now being paid by the Commission to its clerical employees meet the concept of equal pay in that they remove the element of discrimination in wage rates which formerly existed. 
-It is not a term that lends itself to easy definition, but having observed the avoirdupois of honourable members in this chamber I think some of them would qualify. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Australian delegation to the Fifty-fifth (Maritime) Session of the International Labour Conference 1970. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The ILO Program and Budget for the 1974-75 biennium makes provision for an Asian Regional Conference to be held in 1975. Consultations involving the Governments of the Asian Region and the International Labour Office are taking place with a view to agreement on a venue for the Conference. I shall let the honourable member know where the Conference will be held as soon as a decision is reached. 
I first heard about this speech by telephone and I have since received telegrams from Adelaide complaining about it. I could not believe that the report of the speech as recorded in the telegram and as relayed to me by telephone was a correct account of what was said, so I took the precaution of obtaining a copy of the South Australian Hansard. For the benefit of the House I think I ought to read some short extracts from it. The speech was made by the Liberal member for Alexandra in the South Australian Parliament, who got there with the support of the honourable member for Barker in this Parliament. Therefore, one can assume that the honourable member for Barker shares the South Australian member's views, or that they share each other's views. The South Australian Hansard for Tuesday, 11 September 1973, states: 
Too much emphasis and fear is placed on the unemployment issue. If the employees are not effective, stand them down. Let them go hungry for a while ... I mean this. The only way to get the message through to some people is through their stomach. There are far too many wasting their time in many of our Public Service utilities, and it is about time the respective Minister brought down the axe on some of these people. I agree that all the loafers are not in the Public Service . . . Mollycoddling loafers in the community is disastrous . . . Wage fixing be damned! We hear about wage fixing and price fixing but, as far as I am concerned, wage reduction is the answer here, because it is the only language that some people understand. The Commonwealth and State Governments alike must have the guts and initiative to introduce this. 
The State Liberal member for Alexandra who was put into Parliament with the support of the honourable member for Barker who is a great admirer of him. One of the Labor men asked the next Liberal  speaker  who rose to his feet,  Mr Becker,  whether he agreed with or was prepared to dissociate himself from the statements of the previous Liberal  speaker.  He said that he did not know that he could associate himself with all of the statements. He said: 'He has a different philosophy from mine. Mine is based on the banking industry and his is in a different field'. I would like to hear from the honourable member for Barker, who is too ashamed even to come into the House, whether he associates himself with or dissociates himself from his State colleagues. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Government has been asked to provide financial assistance for two projects in the Asian region being undertaken by the ILO with financial assistance from the United Nations Development Program and Governments of the Region viz. 
Asian Regional Project for Employment Promotion. 
Regional Project for Strengthening Labour Administration in Asian Countries. 
In respect of (a),Yes. In respect of (b), the Australian Government will certainly participate in this project but the precise amount and nature of the assistance are still to be finalised. 
The contributions from Governments participating in such projects are determined according to a formula agreed on by the UNDP, the ILO and the Governments concerned. In the case of the Asian Regional Project for Employment Promotion, the Australian Government was required to contribute $10,000. The contribution for the other project, while not yet known, will probably be around the same figure. In addition, the Government meets the cost of sending participants to meetings of experts and provides experts and information to assist in achieving the objectives of the projects. 
Any further requests for assistance for similar ILO projects will certainly be given sympathetic consideration. 
Visits by Overseas Trade Union Specialists: Discussions on Collective Bargaining  (Question No. 764) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is the Government's intention to invite prominent trade unionists from a number of countries to come to Australia to give us the benefit of their knowledge and experience in the labour field and to observe our own practices and approaches. These officials will have specialised knowledge of a wide range of labour and related maters including collective bargaining. 
The program of visits by trade union officials in 1973-74 is now being finalised. Already  Mr Donald  MacDonald,  President  of the Canadian Labour Congress and  President  of the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions, has visited Australia under this arrangement. I have also invited  Mr Len  Murray, the recently appointed General Secretary of the Trades Union Congress, to come to Australia and I hope that he will be able to do so in the first half of next year. At this stage I am unable to be specific about other invitations but I shall let the honourable member know the names of our other guests when arrangements for their visits have been completed. 
One of the objects of this program is to give the widest possible range of people and groups concerned with labour matters in Australia the chance of talking to overseas trade union leaders. I am sure that employers' representatives will want to take the opportunity of meeting these distinguished visitors. 
Inter-departmental Committee: Development of System of Social Indicators in Australia  (Question No. 765) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Departments of: Labour (Chairman), Aboriginal Affairs, Attorney-General's Education, Environment and Conservation, Health, Housing, Prime Minister and Cabinet, Science, Social Security. Tourism and Recreation, Treasury, Urban and Regional Development and the Bureau of Census and Statistics. 
At its initial meeting the Committee decided to set up a smaller Working Group which comprises representatives from the Departments of Labour, Education, Environment and Conservation, Health Housing, Social Security, Treasury, Urban and Regional Development and the Bureau of Census and Statistics to draw up a program for formulating a system of social indicators in Australia. The Working Group is now considering the conceptual framework for developing social indicators and the most effective way of doing this. 
and (4) The consultations have not yet reached a stage where recommendations can be made to Cabinet regarding the basis for developing a system of social indicators in Australia. This is a most complex project and I expect that reports will eventually be published and that the Committee will be seeking the co-operation of experts from outside the Government service. 
 I think that I owe it to the Committee to explain that the proposal to repeal this section is linked with a change of practice in the printing of Bills, Acts and reprints of Acts as amended. This has been adopted with the approval of the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy)  with the object of assisting members of Parliament and, more importantly, members of the public who have occasion to refer to Acts. Honourable membe.'s will have observed that in the case of lengthy Bills for new Acts that have been introduced into Parliament recently there has .been attached at the front of the Bill a table of provisions. This table not only shows ,the parts and the divisions of the Bill but also sets out the marginal notes to each section and so constitutes, in effect, an index to the Bill. Examples are the National Insurance Fund Bill and the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill which, incidentally, were not objected to by the Opposition. When Bills having such a table are published as Acts the table will continue to be provided. 
This practice makes it quite superfluous to include in these Bills themselves a clause showing the division into parts. Furthermore, I can assure honourable members that in future whenever an Act divided into parts or an Act containing more than 25 sections although not divided into parts is reprinted as amended, a corresponding table of provisions will be annexed to it. This being so, the sections of existing Acts showing the division of the Acts into parts will be superfluous. lt is intended, as opportunity offers, to repeal these sections This will also avoid the necessity of amending the parts section every time that the parts or divisions are altered in a material respect. Clause 4 of the present Bill is merely an application of this general intention. I might add that the practice of having a table of provisions and not a parts section is in line wilh the practice in many other jurisdictions including the United Kingdom, New Zealand and Tasmania. I am confident thai it will be welcomed by all users of the Acts and will be of great convenience to members of Parliament. The Mother of Parliaments has decided to do it and that in itself ought to appeal to the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who is probably the most English of all people in the Parliament. 
Let me say this: It is quite wrong to suggest that the Parliamentary Counsel has decided to creep up on us and whack this on like they did in the 'Last 
Tango in Paris' and say: 'Here you are. Here is your new list.' This is not a pound of butter or something that has been planted on us; this is something which was discussed in my presence in Cabinet with the Parliamentary Counsel. 
Of course it was suggested to me that this be done. I said: Of course if this is the new procedure I would be very happy to have it done.' In fact I congratulated the Parliamentary Counsel on what I consider to be a marvellous improvement in the setting out of the Acts. I think we owe a lot to him not only for this but for many other changes in the way the Acts are prepared. Honourable members will remember how the previous Parliamentary Counsel used to spell everything out and refer to 'Section one hundred and fifty-six'. Now this is all done in figures. A lot of other beneficial improvements have been . made, and this is one of them. In fact this - 
No, I am not doing that at all. But it is true that there is no statutory requirement. That is to meet the point made by the honourable gentleman who seems to know all about these things. I think it was he who made the point that it is done by statutory provisions in the House of Commons whereas it is not done in that way here. We admit that there is no statutory requirement for the attachment of a table of provisions to reprints but I ask honourable members - I am talking so quickly because I do not want to waste time - to accept the assurance which I give on behalf of the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy),  that the practice will be followed. I only wish that the public - and many people will be listening to me now - could only see the wonderful advantage that it is to have the Act set out - in the way it has been set out. I have in front of me now an Act printed in the form about which we are now talking. It is ever so much better for the ordinary public to be able to pick up the relevant sections than it was under the old-fashioned antediluvian system that the honourable member for Wannon wants to retain. 
 At this point we are considering clause 4. I should say that I have just discovered that the honourable gentleman - it is not his fault; the Opposition at large must share the blame for this - has made a mistake in the clause which it appears we will not now get to. That is clause 54. The Opposition seeks to delete from the clause the provision which permits the Minister to appoint. Inadvertently it has left in the sub-section which allows the Minister to appoint the arbitration inspectors. I know that that was not your intention and I thought it only fair to tell you. 
Yes. Clause 54 deals with - 
Yes. 
Clause 54: 
Section 125 of the Principal Act is amended - &lt;a) by omitting sub-sections (1) and (2) and substituting the following sub-sections: " (1) There shall be such Inspectors as are required for the purpose of securing the observance of this Act and the regulations and of awards. " (2) The Minister may appoint a person to be an Inspector for the purposes of this Act. " (2a) An officer of the Public Service who occupies, or is temporarily performing the duties of, an office of Inspector, Senior Inspector or Inspector-in-Charge under the  Public Service Act  1922-1973 in the Department of Labour or a person temporarily employed under that Act as an Inspector, Senior Inspector or Inspector-in-Charge in that Department is an Inspector for the purposes of this Act. " (2b) Where a person appointed under subsection (2) is not an officer of the Public Service or a person temporarily employed in the Public Service, he shall be appointed for such period as is specified in the instrument of appointment and holds office upon and subject to such terms and conditions as the Public Service Board determines."; 
by omitting from sub-section (6) the words "Department of Labour and National Service certifying that be is an Inspector for the purposes of this section " and substituting the words "Department of Labour certifying that he is an Inspector for the purposes of this Act "; and 
by adding at the end thereof the following sub-section: " (8) The Secretary to the Department of Labour shall, at least once in each year, commencing with the year 1974, furnish to the Minister a report on the operation of this section, and the Minister shall lay a copy of every such report before each House of the Parliament as soon as practicable after its receipt by him.". 
 Regrettably, the proposed amendment to clause 54 is quite unintelligible. I am sorry to have to put it so bluntly, but that is the case. The proposed amendment to clause 54 seeks to omit from paragraph (a) proposed sub-sections (2a) and (2b), but the honourable gentleman should omit proposed sub-section (2). That is what he intended to do but, if he omits only subsections (2a) and (2b), sub-sections (1) and (2) will remain. Proposed sub-section (1) provides: 
There shall be such Inspectors as are required for the purpose of securing the observance of this Act and the regulation and of awards. 
I know that the honourable gentleman is not objecting to that provision. But sub-section (2) provides: 
The Minister may appoint a person to be an Inspector for the purposes of this Act. 
The amendment seeks to delete proposed subsections (2a) and (2b) but clearly that does not have the effect that is intended. I could easily say that we will consent to the amendment and then the Minister could continue to appoint arbitration inspectors but I do not believe in taking a cheap political advantage over a person who has never had experience in this sort of thing before. Therefore I just warn the honourable gentleman that the amendment in its present form is unintelligible. I suggest that something should be done before it goes to the other place. If the honourable member wishes to persist with quite a silly amendment, if I may so describe it, he ought at least to get it in order. 
 I cannot accept the amendment as put forward. One must have some authority for appointing people. If one strikes out sub-section (2) one is left without any authority for the appointments. There is nothing- 
Yes, I realise that. But what honourable members must realise is that sub-section (2), which we do not propose to leave out of the principal Act, as I understand it- 
No, there is no need for that. If the Committee puts in the Bill what the honourable member proposes, this will still be an imperfect section. What I suggest that we do- 
I do not accept that. 
I draw the attention of the Committee to the fact that provision already exists in the principal Act and it will remain there even if this amendment is carried. Section 125 (4) states: 
An inspector shall have such duties in relation to the observance of this Act and the Regulations and of any award as the Minister directs. 
Well, I do not care who appoints-1 - 
Just a minute. I do not care who appoints people, as long as I have the power to direct. What we are anxious to do is have appointed as inspectors people who understand industrial relations and what is going on in industry. The effect of the amendment will be that nobody can be appointed as an inspector unless he is already in the Public Service. We have already advertised for inspectors and some of those who have answered the advertisement will be from outside the Public Service. 
I hope so. I hope that some Australian Workers Union men will be appointed, but let me tell the Committee about the history of this proposition of Ministers appointing arbitration inspectors. It was first introduced in 1934 by that arch radical, Joseph Lyons. He was the one who thought it was a great idea and a very good provision to put into the Act. In 1934 it was all right for a conservative government to allow the Minister of the day to appoint the arbitration inspectors. From 1934 right up to 1952 - for all that long period of 18 years when many amendments were made - nobody suggested that there was anything improper, unreasonable or wrong about the Minister appointing the arbitration inspectors. Now trie Opposition comes along with an amendment which tries to cast aspersions on the integrity of the Minister. What is suggested evidently is that you can trust a public servant to appoint an arbitration inspector but you cannot trust a Cabinet Minister to do it. There is an old saying that many people tend to judge others by their own standards. If that is the standard that honourable members opposite happen to enjoy let them not attribute that low standard to me or to anybody else, because I am not the kind of person who would appoint arbitration inspectors to set up a kind of political police, if you do not mind. I can assure honourable members that this is not an amendment that we will accept and I hope the Committee will reject it. 
 I want to set the record straight. If that is what I said I want to correct it at once. That is not what I meant. 
If I said it I was wrong and I do not mind getting up and saying that I was wrong when I said it. I would rather be right than consistent and therefore I say that that is not my position. I do want the power to appoint. 
Yes, of course, the same as the conservative government had in 1934 and the same as those governments that succeeded it thereafter until 1952 had. I do want it. I believe it is very important. 
The Public Service Board will not be appointing them in any case. They will be appointed by the Secretary of the Department. 
I want to appoint them. That is good enough reason for me. 
 I want to say something about the appointment of arbitration inspectors, about which we have heard much this evening. I did not want to raise this matter but since I have been forced to do so I must say that there is serious doubt as to whether arbitration inspectors who are now operating are legally entitled to carry out their functions. Such an opinion has been expressed by the Commonwealth Crown Solicitor in New South Wales. He believes that if the validity of the appointment of an inspector were challenged or if an inspector's position were challenged a case could be thrown out of court and the inspector could be held to be a person who is acting without authority because he is performing the type of duties which require his appointment by the Minister. This matter has been raised in another way. According to my notes section 67 of the Constitution provides that until the Parliament otherwise provides, the appointment and removal of officers of the Executive Government, other than Ministers of State, shall be vested in the Governor-General in Council. Section 92 of the Public Service Act provides that every appointment of an officer by the Board, a permanent head or a chief officer under that Act shall, for all purposes, have the same force and effect as if made by the Governor-General. This section traditionally has been regarded as making provision for the appointment of officers for the purposes of section 67 of the Constitution. 
I do not want to incorporate it because you would not be able to follow some of the writing. 
-It is confidential. 
-It is confidential. 
I can give the reply to such a request now. The paper is confidential and under the Standing Orders the tabling of a confidential document cannot be required. There are some unsatisfactory features about the appointment of inspectors under the Public Service Act. For example, it would seem that a person directed temporarily to perform the duties of the office of inspector under the Public Service Act would not be an inspector. Moreover it would be difficult to prove the valid appointment of an inspector if that should ever become necessary in a court, especially if he became an inspector by promotion. Certainly grave doubt exists as to whether the present inspectors are validly appointed under the Act. This is another reason why the Government believes that the situation should be regularised. I make it clear that the Government will not accept the amendment that is proposed. It will not accept it in the Senate either. 
All right. If the Opposition is prepared to throw out a Bill that is absolutely crucial to good, commonsense industrial relations just because honourable members opposite want their way; if they are not prepared to see re-enacted something that was in the Act from 1934 until 1952; if they have this silly fixation about the Minister's appointing arbitration inspectors - it will be on their heads, not mine. 
 . What I wish to say in reply to this matter is that it is utter nonsense to say, as the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  said, that one can go along and kick the general manager up the rear portion of his anatomy and get away with it. He says it wouldbe perfectly in order to do so. Of course it would not be perfectly in order to do so. I refer the honourable gentleman to clause 6 of the Bill, paragraph (c). For some reason I do not understand why the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  proposes to delete it. The paragraph states:  (2a) In a prosecution for an offence arising under paragraph (f) of sub-section (1). it is a defence if the employer satisfies the court that - 
the act or thing done or proposed to be done by the employee was or would have been unlawful under the civil or criminal law, otherwise than by reason only of its being a breach of the contract of employment; 
Quite clearly the honourable gentleman is determined that a person shall not stop work no matter what the justification. It could be a dispute over safety where a person is imperilling his life by continuing to work. But it would be strictly, according to the proposal that the Opposition wishes to fasten on to the trade union movement, an unlawful act for a union official to enter a place of employment and say. to the employees: 'You ought not to work in this place any longer. Get out of it before it blows up and you go with it.' The Opposition says that would be an unlawful act because it is unlawful to go on strike and the employees would be going on strike even if they refused to work in conditions that would put their lives in peril. Proposed new sub-section 2A continues: 
the conduct of the employer that is the subject of the charge was reasonably justified by reason of the unlawful nature of the act or thing referred to in paragraph (a) of this subsection. 
If a person was found committing an act of sabotage or found stealing or misbehaving himself in a way that was not compatible with his position as a member or officer of the union the employer could dismiss him. The Bill contains provisions to give employers full protection in taking action by way of dismissal or other forms of discipline against employees for those kinds of acts. Proposed new sub-section 2b states: 
the conduct of the employer that is the subject of the charge was reasonably justified by reason of the unlawful nature of the act or thing referred to in paragraph (a) of this sub-section. 
There is ample escape for the employer. He has adequate grounds for defence. His grounds for defence are enshrined in the statute. All that the employer has to say is that the employee was doing something unlawful and that whatever he, the employer, did - whether it was dismissal or discipline in any way at all - could reasonably be justified by reason of the unlawful nature of the act or thing that the person against whom he took the action was doing at the time. That is a perfect defence and it gives the employer all that he needs. 
The honourable gentleman says: 'What about the other clause'. If he looks at proposed sub-section 2B he will see that it goes on to state that in a prosecution for an offence arising under paragraph (c) of sub-section 1A, it is a defence if the employer satisfies the court of the matters set out in paragraphs (a) and (b). I will not keep the Committee any longer by reading it again. It is a complete defence for the employer to be able to say that he acted reasonably having regard to the unlawful nature of the act which the person was performing or that he took the action because what the person was doing was unlawful under the civil and crimi-nal law. 
 In reply - I must say that the contribution to this debate from the other side has taken on an altogether different spirit or character from that to which I have ever listened before. It is high time that we in this Parliament started to look at industrial relations as a matter that concerns the whole country. It concerns those of us who represent working people, and it is of vital concern to those who feel that they represent employers. It is all very well for us to carry on here a game of political chess on some matters. But it is quite inappropriate for this Parliament or for any member of this Parliament on my side or on the Opposition side to allow industrial relations and labour relations generally to become the subject of a political chess game. The mistakes that can be made in an exercise of that kind, if it is to degenerate into a game, are too dangerous and too costly for the country to have to bear. The country should not be expected to bear the effect of costly mistakes arising from stupid, flippant, party political attitudes towards labour relations when this Parliament is dealing with laws on labour relations. 
For my part, I have tried - I think successfully - to set quite a new standard, for myself at any rate - and that is the hardest thing of all to do - in this debate. I have acceded to requests by the spokesman for the Opposition, the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  for a longer period than normally is given for consideration of this legislation. He has had 3 weeks to consider it. The request that he made was for 3 weeks, and I gave him 3 weeks. No one knows more than I do - the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner),  the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  and the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  also know only too well - how terribly complex and sensitive is the area of industrial relations. 
I must say this about the honourable member for Wannon: For a person who handled for the very first time a most complex piece of legislation in an area that I would think is quite strange to him, he did a very good job. There was none of the silly, rabble rousing histrionics in which some of his predecessors used to engage. That may sound good in Parliament and those honourable members may look around and see whether their colleagues are smiling at them when they do it in here; but they do not get any marks for it outside. Such behaviour only exacerbates relationships which are already bad enough. The honourable member for Wannon set a new standard for his side of the House in the way that he approached this most important subject. I have co-operated with him fully as he, I know, will be the first to admit. 
He has acknowledged that. I have made available to him the officers of my Department. I have told the officers of my Department that requests from him are to be treated as requests from the main spokesman for Her Majesty's Opposition in this field. He is entitled to that consideration; he has received it. I supplied him with copies of my amendments as soon as I got them. He reciprocated by letting me have copies of his amendments. 
I wish to put on record my appreciation of the co-operation that I have received from my own colleagues in the Parliament. I mention the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes),  the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett),  the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson),  the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  and the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  who have sat through the debate this afternoon not saying anything. They have done so in order that the proper consideration of this legislation when it is iri its Committee stage may be facilitated. All of them are experts in this field. All of them wished to speak in the second reading debate. All of them agreed, in the interests of providing a proper opportunity for study and debate of clauses in Committee, that they would stay out of the debate at the second reading stage. I thank them for that. 
I wish to say only a few other things. The proposals that are set out in our Bill relate to, among other things, amalgamations and rank and file approval of industrial agreements. At the moment there is no limitation on an industrial agreement if it is registered; it carries on ad infinitum. This is causing a great deal of trouble. Reference is made in our Bill to the right of entry, to victimisation and to a move by us to obviate the need to have 3 judges sit together to certify an industrial agreement. All those and the various other proposals in our Bill are quite crucial to the successful operation of industrial relations. 
On the other hand, in Committee the Opposition will move some amendments which the Government will accept. The industrial relations committee of the Government Party, which consists of the honourable gentlemen I mentioned a moment ago, again showed, as I am showing, a spirit of conciliation. The committee has authorised me to say that certain amendments proposed by the honourable member for Wannon will be acceded to by the Government. When I say that, I am saying something which is quite significant. I have said that for the first time to my knowledge - and I can go back for 24 years in this Parliament - we are to witness the spectacle of a government accepting amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in the Committee stage. Never before has a government done that. Former governments have just set their plough to the furrow end said: 'No matter what you say in Committee, we will not alter what we decided upon some few weeks ago as being the complete answer to the question'. That has not been the attitude that we have adopted. 
-It is, and I am hoping- 
By 'your colleague', do you mean the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)? 
He has a responsibility. He has to get legislation through. He has scores of Bills to get through. If we adopt a sensible approach in the Committee stage, we will get through all right and the Opposition will be able to put its amendments. I will not waste the time of the Committee. The Opposition will have a proper opportunity to speak to all its amendments. Provided that we do not waste a lot of time calling unnecessary divisions on unimportant amendments, we can get through. I will do my part to get through. I am replying now because I felt that after so many speakers I should- 
He has to get the business of the House through and I cannot help that. It is no good blaming me for what the Leader of the House feels his duty calls upon him to do. Finally, the Opposition has to remember that we are the Government and we have been elected to office on a program to bring about better industrial relations. We cannot give effect to that program unless we are able to get certain amendments to the Act. We may be wrong in what we think ought to be done to the Act, but as the newly-elected Government we are entitled to be given the opportunity of trying to see whether what we believe to be right is the answer. If the Government's legislative program for industrial peace is to be denied it, no one can blame the Government if the Government fails to achieve its objective. The only people who will be to blame will be the Opposition for refusing to give the Government the legislation for which it has a clear mandate. 
I agree with all the honourable member said about Sweden. The Swedish system is a very sensible one, but involved in it is the concept of rank and file consideration of industrial agreements before they are signed. If honourable members like, as we come to them in the Bill I will identify the passages which are taken from the Swedish system. One feature of the Swedish system is that the amalgamation of unions is easy. It is so easy that long since Sweden has got rid of the multitude of unions that we have. We have 303 unions. Sweden has twenty-six. Part of its success is due to the fact that it has few unions, but very efficient unions. 
Some are industry unions, but not all of them. I admit that the honourable member has asked a very important question. In our country I do not suppose we will ever get industry unions except in isolated cases, such as the Australian Workers Union in the pastoral industry, although even in that case it is not an industry union because wool classers are covered by another union. But the success of the Swedish system does not rest entirely on the fact that it has industry unions. That is not the reason for its success. Its success rests mainly on the fact that it has fewer unions that are more efficient and the employers do not have the bugbear they have to put up with here of having to become the unfortunate witnesses of industrial disputes over demarcation issues and being absolutely helpless to do anything about it. The employer is made the meat in the sandwich. The unions fight over which union shall cover a particular job, and the poor unfortunate employer has to stand on the sidelines and watch his business go down the drain simply because we have too many unions trying to cover the various industrial areas. 
Declaration of Urgency 
The right honourable gentleman knows very well what I said because he was looking at the program. He does not remember exactly what I said, but it is near enough. I have personally come to the view that while the labour market remains as tight as it now is, that is, with more unfilled jobs than registered unemployed, it is not possible to introduce a 35- hour week across the board or in the Public Service without merely increasing either the amount of regular overtime that the public servants now work or else, if this is to be avoided, drawing on the market that is already very tight and taking from private enterprise people who are in short supply and putting them into the Public Service, in which case the regular overtime which would otherwise be necessary in the Public Service would be transferred into the private sector. It is not the purpose of the 35-hour week merely to increase the amount of regular overtime. That is not why the unions are asking for the 35- hour week either. They want the 35-hour week in order to increase the amount of leisure for those who are working and to give greater job opportunities for those who cannot get any work at all. Honourable members must remember that when the Prime Minister gave his undertaking to introduce the 35-hour week in the lifetime of the present Parliament we had an army of 130,000 people out of work with less than 30,000 registered unfilled vacancies. Today we have something like 80,000 unfilled vacancies and something in the order of 69,000 registered unemployed. So the situation has been drastically changed, and the Prime Minister cannot have it both ways. 
No, this Prime Minister connot 'have it both ways. He cannot reduce the level of unemployment in the way he has done and expect to be able to introduce the 35-hour week at the same time. It cannot be done. I hope that he is not like my uncle and decides that death is preferable to breaking a promise. 
The Leader of the Country Party is quite right when he draws attention to the special position of females in country areas. He has put his finger on and has clearly identified a special area of great need of which the Government is aware. I assure him, however, that he misunderstood me when he said that the Government has decided to continue the present scheme. I hoped to convey the impression clearly that we decided not to continue the present scheme. The present scheme has been grossly abused by the Premier of Queensland, to name one who has grossly abused the scheme - 
He has used Commonwealth money to channel financial assistance to the Brisbane City Council - the amount is some $280,000  -  when the real need in Queensland is in country areas and not in the Brisbane City Council area at all. We are not happy - 
The Government is concerned about the situation in the rural or the non-metropolitan areas. It notices that whereas the number of registered unemployed in the metropolitan area has fallen quite substantially, the number of people still registered as unemployed in the country areas has risen quite substantially. This has occurred in spite of the fact that some 8,800 people are still on unemployment relief. When those people cease to receive unemployment relief the number of people who are still registered as unemployed will further increase. That is not to say that we ought to continue the present scheme. The present scheme is not a good scheme. It has quite a lot of shortcomings which the Government is not prepared to tolerate any longer. However, the present scheme will cut out in September. The Government has decided that in special areas of distress or areas where there are pockets of a great degree of unemployment it is prepared to consider each of those areas on its merits. In fact, it has been decided by the Government already that in parts of Tasmania the Government will continue to give relief after the present scheme is discontinued. I have had representations from the honourable member for Darling pointing to the very special position with which Broken Hill has to contend. 
So far as Gippsland is concerned, if the honourable member for Gippsland will put a properly prepared case to me, which up to date he has not done, I will be prepared to consider it. The honourable member finds it a lot easier to make silly interjections than to sit down and write a sensible letter. The people in the electorate of Gippsland would be well advised to elect a person who knows how to write because they have not got one now. I wish to say also that I have received representations from the Trades and Labour Council in Hobart. 1 met the full executive of the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council and the position of Tasmania was drawn to my attention quite forcibly. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As part of his inquiry into certain aspects of the stevedoring industry, including whether the Australian National Line should conduct its own stevedoring operations,  Mr N.  K. Foster commenced his interviews with stevedores on 16/7/73 in Perth. 
No. 
See (2). 
I do not know why the right honourable gentleman grimaces as he does when he asks a question. I do not know whether he thinks it makes it look more penetrating, but he ought to try to look more pleasant if he wants to get a pleasant reply. In spite of the aggressive and almost insulting way in which the right honourable gentleman asked the question I can tell him that the Prime Minister called me into his office only last night to talk about this matter. He expressed his deep concern about the plight of people in certain pockets - not a lot - of unemployment throughout the countryside. He has expressed special concern, for example, for the position of people in Tasmania - 
He is concerned with all areas of distress. He has asked me to prepare another submission to Cabinet. That is now in the course of preparation and it will be ready very shortly. It will provide a scheme which will give proper and adequate protection to those who are in this distressed position. The scheme which the Government introduced for unemployment relief was a very poorly thought out scheme. 
The McMahon Government, yes, I am sorry. 
The right honourable gentleman ought to know that the scheme that is now in operation was not introduced by this Government. It was introduced by his Government and it was a very poorly conceived scheme. It was so poor that when I asked Cabinet to continue it for another 6 months it rejected it out of hand. I think it was absolutely right. Cabinet Minister after Cabinet Minister drew my attention to gross anomalies in the present scheme and told me that I ought not simply ask it to continue a scheme that was so inadequate. In its place I will be bringing down fresh recommendations which will take care of all the points - 
That is my business,  Sir. 
You are carrying on as though you are a member of Al Fatah. You are not going to frighten me with your threats. 
For the information of honourable members I present a paper listing the birth dates drawn in the 16 national ballots held from 1965 to 1972, which I have been asked to make available for statistical study purposes. I might say that the previous Government kept the birth dates drawn in the first 11 national service ballots a secret, thus preventing any public check on call-ups. It was not until 28 September 1970 that the former Government yielded to Opposition pressure to have these dates made public. 
I am advised that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 2 August the Public Service Board announced a 16 per cent salary increase for Second Division Officers, which in the case of Level 6 officers amounted to $3,643 a year, before any formal claim was served on respondent Ministers. This enabled the claimant unions to confront Cabinet with a fait accompli. 
Increases granted or offered to Second Division officers of the Australian Public Service since January 1970 are as follows: 1.1.70 - 3 per cent - National Wage Case. 14.1.71 - 6 per cent - National Wage Case. 5.11.71 - approx. 15 per cent - Arbitrated decision of Public Service Arbitrator - Determinations 
Numbers 360 and 361 of 1971. 1.6.72 - $104 per annum- National Wage Case. 31.5.73 - 2 per cent plus $130 per annumNational Wage Case. 23.8.73- approx. 16 per cent- Offer by Public Service Board. 
This means that since 1.1.70 Second Division salaries have increased by the following amounts: 
In the same period, the wages of selected fourth division designations have increased as follows: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) See answer to question 760. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Following the Government's election, consideration was given to implementation of the provision in the ALP Platform to establish an Office of Economic and Social Affairs and a Bureau of Industrial Statistics. Subsequently the ALP Federal Conference revised the section of its Platform dealing with these matters. It now reads: 
The Statistician to establish a Bureau of Industrial Statistics to compile, compute and record uniform information concerning - 
cost of living, 
productivity, 
occupational accident and disease in various industries in each State and Territory; 
the Department of Labour to establish - 
an Office of Economic and Social Research, incorporating a Bureau of Industrial Information working in consultation with the Statistician, to compile and compute information on occupational accident and disease and all other matters relevant to industrial affairs for the use of the Commission, trade unions and employers' organisations;' 
I and my Department are giving active consideration to the foregoing. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As a result of a stoppage by guards in Sydney rail transport facilities were not available in the metropolitan area on September 19. 
Yes. 
The Government is aware of the difficulties arising out of demarcation issues and has repeatedly stressed its support for the principle of amalgamation of unions - a move which would eliminate many of the problems which cause disputes of this kind. As the honourable member will know, the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill, reintroduced into the House by the Government on 30 August, provides for the removal of existing barriers to trade union amalgamations. 
Visits by Overseas Trade Union Specialists: Discussions on Collective Bargaining (Question No. 957) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The trade union officials referred to in my answer to the honourable member's question No. 764 are to be brought to Australia under the Special Overseas Visits Fund. This Fund can also be used to bring prominent employers or employers' representatives to Australia. Indeed, I am advised that earlier this year 11 overseas industrialists visited Australia under the SOVF. The Government is anxious to encourage informed discussion and rational action in the labour field and I have taken the initiative in obtaining a small sum to be included in my Department's vote to enable a small number of overseas experts on labour matters to come to Australia each year to give us the benefit of their knowledge and experience and to stimulate the thinking of Australian practitioners in the labour field. If employers or employers' - representatives can contribute in this way the Government will certainly consider inviting them to come to Australia through one of the avenues I have mentioned. 
I understand the question is: Did I insist upon Ansett signing an agreement? The answer is no. The rest of the question does not have to be answered. 
Yes, I did tell the Parliament that the Department was preparing submissions. Submissions have been prepared and are now before Cabinet. When will it come into operation? I do not know. Have I yet notified the Premiers of the new plan? No, because the plan has not been decided upon by Cabinet. 
I did see the advertisement this morning. I thought that it was a despicable twisting of statistics to try to cast aspersions on a man whose integrity in this place is without parallel. I consequently had some inquiries made about this important matter. My Department informs me that a  Mr John  Tilling of the Department has been working on these statistics for some time now for a master's thesis. This work has now reached the point where we are able to make some observations. I would like the House to bear with me while I make them.  Mr Tilling  worked through a wide range of possible methods, some more acceptable than others, to show how labour's share of the national product has tended in the 20 years from 1948-49 to 1969-70. Despite the different methods of analysis that are adopted in the study the results produced are generally consistent and statistically significant. The choice of different bases to the statistical series does not affect the nature of the results of the study. That is an important observation which I make. To overcome this problem of aggregation  Mr Tilling  adopts a technique developed by Phelps-Brown - which the honourable gentleman would know all about, I hope - the effect of which compensates for the changing structure of the economy. In total  Mr Tilling  adopts 6 different approaches to the data available. 
Opposition members - Ha, ha! 
Honourable members will not laugh when they find me getting near the end of my reply. There is considerable difference of opinion as to how national accounting data should be used in a study of this kind. Again, however,  Mr Tilling  covers the field by adopting 4 different uses of national accounts. They are: (i) gross national product, all industries and sectors; (ii) gross national product at factor cost, less agriculture, mining and quarrying; (iii) gross national product, less the last mentioned item and less goods and services produced by government authorities, as distinct from public enterprises such as government railways, and ownership of private dwellings; (iv) national product, less the items mentioned in (ii) and (iii) and, in addition, electricity generation, public utilities generally, transport sector as a whole, both government and private. In 21 of 24 regression equations  Mr Tilling  found that the share of national product going to labour had declined in the 20 years from 1948-49 to 1969-70. These findings were statistically significant at the 95 per cent level. That is, the investigator can be 95 per cent sure that the equation he has calculated is a true indication of the movement in the series and is not the product of chance. 
I am obliged to the honourable gentleman for that interjection. I think that since the honourable member for Mackellar is so friendly with  Sir Warwick  Fairfax,  Sir Warwick  ought to demonstrate his friendship by refunding the whole of the cost of the advertisement - if, in fact, the honourable member ever paid for it. I continue. The 3 cases that indicated a positive trend in the wage share were equations using an inter-dependent base outlined in the last section 1(c) (i). I will explain to honourable members what that means if they are interested. 
I know that the honourable gentleman is deeply concerned about the employment level in Tasmania. The honourable gentleman will be glad to know - and it will be some comfort to him - that the  Deputy  Prime Minister has very forcibly put the position of Tasmania to me as indeed have the honourable members for Wilmot, Franklin and Braddon. I expect to be meeting the Tasmanian members on the matter again later in the week .when I will discuss with them the problems which the honourable member has now raised. The Government is deeply concerned about the position in Tasmania. The honourable gentleman is correct in saying that the level of unemployment there is 2.2 per cent against 1.09 per cent and 1.1 per cent in Victoria. 
Yes, I have. One needs a good memory. The employment position in Tasmania distresses the Government. I have proposals for a retraining program now before the Government which I hope will be listed for consideration very soon. The proposals will, of course, direct primary attention to areas in greatest need, and Tasmania is certainly that kind of State. I can tell the honourable gentleman that his concern and my concern are shared by the Prime Minister, the  Deputy  Prime Minister and the Cabinet. He can be certain that we will not ignore the problems of Tasmania. 
I hope that the Opposition moves a censure motion like this every week because the Government has been far too modest about its achievements in the past. This debate has given the Government the opportunity to say what it has done and to remind the public how the Opposition parties, now seeking to become the Government again, sold out Australia to their foreign backers and how their only solution for industrial unrest and for inflation was to pursue fiscal policies that cause massive unemployment. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  whose job it was to attack the Government, spent most of his extension of time in the futility of trying to convince the Parliament that the Liberal and Country parties are not the paid creatures of agents of foreign multi-nationals willing to sell the country's birthright for a mere bagatelle. 
The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  talked about morning sickness. He looked sick as he said it. The honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  also looked sick. He was not his usual confident self as he stood to speak in support of the Opposition motion. The Leader of the Country Party made a feeble but very unconvincing attempt to satisfy the Parliament that his Party is not the captive of foreign interests seeking to steal and to ravage Australia's mineral and energy resources and to impose excessive tariff burdens upon the man on the land who has to sell his production at prices governed by world parity while being forced by the Country Party to pay through the nose for everything he has to buy, because of the excessive tariff policies of the Country Party. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  had the gall to talk about industrial confrontation when he himself is known to be the one who did everything possible to cause confrontation between the unions and employers in the oil industry last year. It was not his fault that this country was not brought to its knees in one of the greatest industrial disasters we have ever seen. He talked about lost time due to strikes but he was as silent as the grave on the 20 million man-days lost annually through the massive unemployment which the Liberal-Country Party Government deliberately created as a means of controlling inflation and of preventing industrial unrest. He, like the 2 Opposition speakers who preceded him, showed an extraordinary degree of sensitivity to the charges that the Opposition parties are now the hirelings of foreign corporations bent on capturing control of Australia's mineral and energy reserves. He actually had the audacity to attack the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  for what he is doing to preserve the natural heritage of the Australian people. The honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  also put the case for his party's multi-national masters by criticising the Minister for Minerals and Energy for safeguarding Australia's national reserves. 
I think the honourable member for Wannon was wise in not referring at very great length to the question of industrial unrest and industrial relations. I am surprised that he referred to unemployment, however, because when his Government was in office it deliberately followed policies, which I have already mentioned, which led to the creation of unemployment that reached the staggering total of 130,000 men and women. He did not touch upon the Australian Parliament's limited constitutional power to intervene directly in industrial relations. He dodged the issue because he is an intelligent and widely read man who knows perfectly well that the Australian Parliament has no power to deal directly with labour relations. Unlike the Parliaments of the 6 States which have unlimited powers to deal with industrial relations and labour disputes, the Commonwealth power over industrial maters can be exercised only through the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in accordance with the powers which the Australian Parliament may confer on the Commission. 
Even the Parliament's power to confer powers on the Commission is severely limited by the Constitution. The Parliament cannot just confer upon the Commission whatever powers it thinks the Commission ought to have to do its job. It is severely limited in the powers it can confer upon the Commission. For example, the Parliament cannot give the Commission power to deal with intrastate disputes like the recent New South Wales power strike, the recent garbage strike in New South Wales or all these other strikes for which the Commonwealth Government gets the blame - strikes that occur in industries working under State awards. The Commonwealth Parliament has no power to intervene in these disputes, the Government has no power to intervene in them and the Arbitration Commission has no power to intervene in them. Only the State governments can do that. 
Even in the case of interstate disputes the Australian Parliament is severely limited by the Constitution in the kind of powers that it may confer upon the Commission. It cannot grant power to settle disputes caused by issues like union membership, demarcation disputes and managerial policy. The High Court has held that these are not industrial matters and are therefore outside the scope of the Commonwealth Parliament's power. Almost half of all strikes are caused by non-wage issues in relation to which neither the Australian Government, the Australian Parliament nor the 
Commission has any constitutional power to settle or intervene. If these disputes occur in industries covered by State awards they can be settled by the State government, the State parliament or the State industrial tribunal if they wish to do so wherever the strikes occur. But neither the Australian Parliament, the Australian Government nor the Commission can take any constitutional action to intervene in disputes covered by State awards or agreements. 
It is complete dishonesty or ignorance on the part of people who try to saddle onto the Australian Government responsibility for disputes occurring in industries covered by State awards. Even in the industries covered by State awards, the State parliaments and State governments concerned, which have unlimited power to intervene if they wish to, never have moved and will not move to intervene. Sixty per cent of all employees in the work force are covered by State awards and cannot be touched by the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Only 38 per cent of strikes occur in industries covered by Federal awards. The rest occur in industries that are the responsibility of State governments. Of the 38 per cent of strikes that occur under Federal awards, more than half are due to disputes over union membership, demarcation disputes or matters concerning managerial policy. Disputes over union membership have declined rapidly since the Commission's decision to grant preference to unionists in the clerks' case, which is a feather in the cap of the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan),  because employers now know that it is better to accept preference to unionists than to have compulsory unionism forced upon them by job action. 
The honourable member for Wannon talked about pre-election promises as contracts that should not be broken. Yet his Party is now using its control of the Senate to prevent the Government from honouring its contract to reform the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The Government has a clear mandate for the amendments its Bill seeks to section 5 of the Act to inject some common sense into labour relations by preventing victimisation of employees, which is another cause of endless disputes. It has a clear mandate to make the amendments proposed in its Bill that seek to encourage the settlement of industrial disputes by agreements in such a way as to ensure the observance of those agreements by the employees affected, that is, by ensuring that no agreement can be registered unless it has been endorsed by the persons affected by it. What could be fairer that that? The Government has a clear mandate to amend the Act to give full-time union officials easier right of entry than is now possible. The Opposition should not talk about wildcat strikes and the trouble that is caused by shop committees if at the same time it prevents full-time union officials from having ready access to jobs during any part of the day. The Government has a clear mandate to establish an efficient arbitration inspectorate. 
All of these things are contained in the Bill now before the Senate, and all of them have been opposed or will be opposed by the Opposition parties. The Government cannot achieve its aims for a healthier climate in labour relations while the Senate withholds approval of the vital ingredients to the Government's program for industrial peace. No government could have acted with greater alacrity than has the Whitlam Government. I introduced a Bill containing 74 clauses within 6 sitting weeks of the new Government facing its first Parliament. That Bill was rejected by the Senate without even bothering to debate any one of its clauses. The same thing is happening with the Government's second Bill. The Senate is threatening to so emasculate the Bill as to render it useless as a means of bringing greater sanity to the labour scene. The situation will get worse. Industrial relations will get worse unless our Bill is passed. They cannot, of course, get better while the defects and shortcomings of the existing Act persist. The Government has no power to act in labour relations. The Parliament cannot act of its own accord directly in labour relations, and it is unfair to expect the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to do its job if we are to deny it the new powers which the Government's Bill proposes. 
I turn now to the question of industrial agreements. The Government believes that industrial agreements must be encouraged and must be observed and honoured. 1 have said that time and time again and I will keep on saying it. The principle is enshrined in the policy of the Australian Labor Party. The Government's Bill does this. It makes an important contribution towards the observance of industrial agreements - 
Yes, by employees. 
Yes, by employees and employers - by requiring the Commission to satisfy itself that such agreements are understood and have been endorsed by the employees affected by an agreement. You will never get the rank and file of any union to honour a sweetheart agreement that sells them short. The short term advantage of such an agreement to an employer is always offset and always will be offset by the long term disadvantages that follow when his employees strike in repudiation of an agreement that sold them short. It is far better to ensure that any agreement made is understood and endorsed by those employees affected. 
The people who negotiate the agreements are not the ones who work under them. What they know about them and understand and accept is not the issue. The important question is whether the people who work under an agreement understand the agreement and whether they are prepared to honour it. My experience as a union official - as secretary of a union and as a court advocate - has always been that you can win if you can say to the rank and file: 'This is not my agreement I am asking you to honour until the 2 year or 3 year period, whatever the duration of the agreement might be, expires. I am asking you to honour your own agreement, an agreement which I put to you a year ago which you all voted to support. That is what I am asking you to honour'. When you can say that to a group of men you can win. You can win them always. You cannot win them when you say: 'I know you were not consulted. I know that this agreement was made behind closed doors without your being brought into it at all. I know that it sold you short but I am going to force you to carry it out'. They will tell you to go to hell and you cannot blame them for it either. You have to put agreements to the membership for their approval or you might as well not have an agreement. 
The days of sweetheart agreements have gone. Why on earth the Opposition should have been so shortsighted as to have rejected these most sensible of all amendments is completely beyond me. As I say, what we have to do is satisfy the membership that the agreements made on their behalf, signed on their behalf and registered on their behalf are agreements to which they themselves are parties, and this can be done only by giving effect to the very sensible provision contained in the amendment which the Bill seeks to introduce. 
That does not matter. I am telling the honourable member that as a union official of long experience my experience has always shown me what happens if you can go to a factory site and talk to a meeting of men and say: 'Comrades, I am not asking you to honour my agreement, something that I made behind closed doors; I am asking you to honour your own agreement'. When you talk like that and when you can truthfully say that to a group of men, that is what gives a union official his power to implement and honour an agreement. But you take the power away from him the moment you allow agreements to be registered that have not been ratified by the rank and file. The Government's Bill recognises this well-known fact of industrial life and seeks to ensure that no agreement can be given the force of an award unless and until it has been ratified by those who are expected to sell their labour at the price fixed and under the conditions agreed upon by that agreement. 
Another thing that must be understood in labour relations is that a lot of wage demands relate to the fact that in 1953 the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission abolished automatic cost of living adjustments to wage rates. Compensation for rising prices now has to wait until the Commission's annual wage case, with the result that unions find it impossible to hold back the pressure of wage increases, and demands for adjustments take the form of claims for payment of over award wages as well as the annual review that is called the national wage case. Because unions have to make claims that will anticipate 12 months' price increases in advance the net result of this sitaution is that it creates much unrest that could be obviated by a return to wage indexation of some form that will take care of price increases as they occur. What is happening in industry today is that we are trying to hold the lid on a boiler of steam that gets higher and higher in pressure with each increase in prices that occurs until in the end, long before the national wage case comes around, the thing blows up and then demands are made and arc enforced upon employers in the form of over award wages when what the employees ought to be given are quarterly cost of living adjustments. The Australian Government therefore will support the Australian Council of Trade Unions in any move that it makes for the introduction of wage indexation along lines that will, in the Government's view, relieve the existing pressures for wage rises to compensate for price increases. The precise manner by which the wage indexation should be applied is a matter, of course, for the Commission to determine, but the Government will act upon its mandate to intervene in the proceedings of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to support wage indexation. 
The guaranteed  maintenance of real wages isolates and removes a source of grievance which otherwise may lead to damaging industrial confrontations and inflationary wage claims. Indexation facilitates long term agreements which should reduce the incidence of large' scale industrial conflict. Indexation enables periodic collective bargaining to concentrate on longer term issues of wage structure, increases in real wages and wages share of national product. The introduction of quarterly adjustment could enable a trade union to concern itself with increasing real wages and thereby creating a climate suitable to encourage productivity bargaining within industry if the parties to it want that kind of bargaining. As compensation for price increases is bound to be a factor in wage negotiations, it appears better if compensation is made regularly and moderately rather than abruptly. Wage indexation would not mean that no other steps need be taken against inflation; in fact there may still be need for further strong, possibly unpleasant, measures against inflation. Consideration would, of course, need to be given to the form and mechanism of wage adjustment. More specifically, on the question of the manner in which adjustment might take place, one approach would be adjustment corresponding to the whole of the quarterly price rise, as occurred prior to the 1952^-53 decision of the Commission. While this seeks to provide for perfect adjustment, it can be markedly influenced by seasonal factors and there may, indeed, be a case for seeking to minimise this seasonal influence. 
Another approach, which has found favour in some overseas countries, is to adjust wages only by certain minimum amounts. In other words, wage adjustment would apply only when there is a rise, or an accumulated rise, or fall in the consumer price index leading to at least, say, a given or an X amount adjustment in the weekly wage. This is not unlike the approach taken in adjusting social service pensions. Personally I do not favour the method I have just mentioned, but it is one which can be thought about. 
Consideration would need also to be given to the extent of the application of adjustment to wages. It is surely beyond dispute that at least the minimum wage must be protected. The reasons for this, surely, are self-evident. However, given the basic economic argument, namely, that the introduction of wage indexation should be a force against inflation because it would remove one major argument used in wage claims, the concept of indexation could hardly be restricted to the minimum wage alone. The protection against inflation that indexation offers would need to- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
 I took the trouble to study this matter in great depth when it was debated in 1968. At that time I listened with great interest to the comments of men such as the present Governor-General,  Sir Paul  Hasluck, who, like me, had studied the area. I went to the top of Camp Hill and I went to the top of Capital Hill. I took the bother to go to the top of Mount Ainslie and consider how the new and permanent parliament house would look from that position. I was left very strongly in favour of Capital Hill. The more I think about it and the more I drive past Capital Hill, I am more than ever convinced that God himself put Capital Hill where it is for the purpose of giving to our nation a position for its parliament house that would surpass any other position nature has bestowed upon any other country. It is a criminal tragedy for us to talk about having the new parliament house on Camp Hill. Why do we not go to the top of the area. That is where it ought to be. Parliament House is the pre-eminent building in Canberra. It is the most pre-eminent of all institutions in Australia. Capital Hill is the one place where we can build a new parliament house without destroying this one. 
It leaves me cold to hear people talking about the fact that it will cost $120,000 a year to keep this Parliament House in repair. Even if that exaggerated figure were doubled, the cost of keeping this great historical record of our development as a nation ought not to be the thing to deter us from preserving it. Let us never forget that this very building in which we are now debating this proposition; this building in regard to which, if we erect the new parliament house on Camp Hill, there will be agitation for its destruction by people who talk about vistas; this building, inadequate though it may be and inadequate no doubt it is, is the building in which, in its corridors, in its chambers, in its libraries walked and talked and thought men like Bruce, Page, Scullin, Theodore, Lyons, Chifley, Casey, Menzies, Hughes, McEwen, Holt, Fadden, Curtin, Evatt, Ward, Calwell, Barwick, McMahon, Gorton, Anthony, Hasluck, Latham and Whitlam. This is a building in which future historians will give anything to be able to stand in the place where stood all these great men who will become greater the longer our history develops. 
Camp Hill was selected by the former Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton.  It was not selected by any decision of the Parliament. The Senate strongly objected to the Camp Hill site and the lakeside site and favoured Capital Hill. It is nonsense to say that we can guarantee that Capital Hill will remain a grassy knoll, to be looked on by the people with great admiration. Of course it will not. We can make a decision today that parliament house is to be built on Camp Hill, we can carry all the resolutions we wish and pass all the Acts of Parliament we wish, but there is nothing to stop the bureaucrats of tomorrow giving effect to the original concept by Burley Griffin for the bureaucrats to be sitting on top of the hill looking down on the parliament house. Do not think it will not happen. They will only need to be as successful in imposing their view on the thinking of a future Minister with authority over the siting of Parliament House as the present advisers have been on the thinking of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  and that is precisely what some future Minister will recommend. Let us listen to the words of the present Minister for Urban and Regional Development as reported in Hansard of 15 August 1968. He complained that the National Capital Development Commission had not given the members of Parliament who favoured the Capital Hill site enough information. He criticised the NCDC, and justifiably so, too. But when he became Minister for Urban and Regional Development they got at him and did the same job on him as they had done on the person who was previously putting the proposition. Let us listen to what the present Minister for Urban and Regional Development had to say about it: 
I repeat that we should restrict buildings in the Government triangle and that the new Parliament House should be on Capital Hill so that from it there will be an unimpeded view. 
That is what he wanted then. He continued: 
We must determine to build a national building. The decision on the siting of the new Parliament House relates to the erection of a building with character. Honourable members should support the Capital Hill site. 
It is nonsense to suggest that the bureaucrats will not get on to Capital Hill. Honourable members will not stop the bureaucrats from getting there by passing Acts of Parliament or meaningless resolutions which say that the bureaucrats will never sit on that grassy knoll. The only way to stop the bureaucrats from getting control of, and having their buildings on, Capital Hill, overlooking ours, is for us to grab it now and to stick our building on it while we can. 
Some honourable members talk about the cost of repairs to retain the present House as a magnificent old historical building. Does anybody care about the repair costs for St Paul's Cathedral? Does anybody dare say: 'Pull St Paul's down because it is costing £Stg1m in repairs?' Did the people of West Germany say: 'Let us pull down the Cologne Cathedral because it is costing £Stg8m in repairs?' Of course they did not. Why was an amount of £Stg8m spent on repairs to the Cologne Cathedral? Why was £Stg1m spent on repairs to St Paul's? The money was spent because the people had some apreciation of their history and they wanted to preserve it. We ought to have the same pride in respect of this House. What about the enormous amount of money that is spent on maintaining the Great Wall of China? 
Honourable members opposite may laugh. But what about the money that the Russian revolutionists spent on the restoration of the Winter Palace and the Kremlin Palace, places in which the Czars had carried out their worst and most perfidious activities? The money was spent on those places because the people had a sense of history. Yet some honourable members in this place say: 'We will not do it because it will cost a bit of money'. It is just nonsense for one of my good friends to say that we will not get a new parliament house until 2000 A.D. Of course that is what will happen if we go on wasting time as we have been doing over the past 5 years. The phrase 'You will not get it till the year 2000' is a good sort of a phrase to use because everybody shudders and says: 'Well, I will not be here then'. My friend and colleague the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  and I do not care whether we are here to see the new parliament house or not. The important thing is that when the new parliament house is built it will be a building of which we can all be proud, situated in a place that gives it pre-eminence over all other positions. I do not care - and I am sure that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development does not care - whether we are cheated, if you like to put it in that way, out of the right of sitting in the new parliament house. What the hell does it matter, so long as we get a building of which our grandchildren can be proud? But to put up a nissan hut, which is what is proposed now for Camp Hill, just so that those of us who are now members of this Parliament can go into it, throw our weight around and have big offices in which to sit is nonsense and we ought not to have a bar of it. 
I believe that the capital of Australia was made for the Parliament. The Parliament was not made for the city of Canberra. The Parliament was not made for the civil servants and the bureaucrats who are pushing us around, telling us where the new parliament house will be located. The civil service concept is to get a parliament house down amongst all the other buildings so that the bureaucrats will no longer be in a position where, even in a physical sense, they will have to regard themselves as being below the Parliament which controls the country. An example of civil service bungling is the ring road around Capital Hill. The width of State Circle should have been doubled or even trebled. The engineer who put that death trap called the 'ring road' around Capital Hill ought to be sacked. Look at the money he was getting. He was one of the fat cats of the Public Service. He talked the then Minister for the Interior into allowing the ring road to be built. No one with any brains at all will go on to the ring road at certain times of the day or night. A person would have to be a lunatic to do so. A person ought to have his head read if he does that. Australia deserves the best, the most prominent and most eminent position for its parliament in the capital city of our great country. We ought to tell the bureaucrats to go to hell, and never mind about preserving the place up there so that one day they can con some future Minister for Urban and Regional Development by saying: 'Look,  Mr Minister,  I have just discovered that Burley Griffin did say that there ought to be an administrative building on top of Capital Hill'. 
Ten storeys high. The Minister would say: 'By God, thank you very much for telling me. How did anybody else miss that? Of course we must put an administrative block there. Would it not be great if we could put Parliament House there. But we cannot because that is already built.' This is the time we must grab that wonderful site if we are going to have it at all. Honourable members should not fool themselves; the civil servants and the bureaucrats will be sitting up on that hill if we do not get there first. The proper and the only thing to do is to take the speech that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development made when in Opposition 5 years ago and listen to what he says now. Honourable members then will know what bureaucrats can do to Ministers. Do not trust Ministers; never place your trust in Ministers because always they can be soft-soaped by clever bureaucrats. In the National Capital Development Commission we have the cleverest bunch of bureaucrats I have ever seen because if they can twist a man of such stamina as my Cabinet colleague, the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  into the gyrations in which he has been engaged during the last few weeks, they can do anything. 
I do not know whether I favour the publication of awards and other information in various languages because it could have the tendency to create a multi-lingual community which, of course, is not what the Minister for Immigration and I wish to see. At the same time I am impressed by the reply given yesterday by the Minister for Immigration to a question asked of him by my colleague the honourable member for Phillip in which he asked the Minister to consider issuing this information in various languages. There is a strong case for doing so in certain circumstances. For example, safety regulations ought to be published in various languages because one of the biggest disputes of all in Newcastle arose from the fact that the tradesman was not properly protected at his back by the tradesman's helper who was a migrant and did not understand the instructions that were issued to him for the observance of safety regulations. That led to a big dispute. 
I want to take this opportunity to say that I believe there is a great merit in the system that operates in Scandinavian countries. I commend to the Minister for Immigration, to whom I have already spoken about this matter, the practice adopted in those countries which requires that each employer who enlists or recruits migrant labour shall be obligated to provide 300 hours in working time to study the Swedish, Norwegian or Finnish language or whatever the language happens to be in the particular country. This has the effect of taking away any advantage in the matter of wage payments in employing migrant labour because when an employer provides its employees 300 hours of working time to learn the language of the country the cost involved does take away the advantage which otherwise applies. 
I want to say just one thing more about this, and I hope that it is something that will be read by those who sit on the arbitration bench, by the unions and by the employers. I believe that the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and members of the various State tribunals have a much greater influence upon industrial relations than they imagine. It would be a good thing if they would give greater attention to the reasons for their judgments when they are issuing them. I remember very well when I was the secretary of a union that we had a very difficult dispute at Iron Knob. We had a team of men there who were angry; they were militant. They were not prepared to accept the decision of the court until I read to them the excellent and logical judgment by  Sir Edward  Morgan, as he later became when he was appointed to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, because the judgment was so packed with logic, such compelling logic that when I read it to the men I did not have to make a speech to give them the reasons why they should go back to work and accept the decision. The judge's own reasons for judgment contained the logic of the case that anybody would want to put to persuade men to return to work. 
In the case of the Ford dispute,  Mr Justice  Moore was absolutely correct in issuing instructions that his reasons for judgment be issued in various migrant languages because there was some evidence that until then the migrant workers in the Ford factory were not really understanding what the dispute was all about, nor were they understanding fully the negotiations .and the compromise proposals that had been worked out by the unions and the employers. Indeed, I would go so far as to say that had the suggestion of the Minister for Immigration been adhered to before the strike reached the crisis stage that dispute may never in fact have occurred at all. I see great merit in the suggestion he put forward. I hope that he will consider what I have said about the practice in Scandinavian countries. 
I cannot tell the right honourable gentleman when the national wage case will be heard and the Prime Minister has just instructed me not to give the assurance. 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I am advised that the latest available statistics of industrial disputes published by the Commonwealth Statistician for the month of July 1973 (Bulletin Reference No. 6.27) show that a total number of 1541 disputes occurred in the period from 2 December 1972 to end July 1973 resulting in U,700,5O0 working days lost and an estimated loss in wages of $28,608,200. With regard to the duration of industrial disputes the Commonwealth Statistician publishes statistics under this heading in his quarterly bulletins ((Reference No. 6.6). The bulletins for the March and June Quarters '1973 show that 38.4 per cent of the industrial disputes which occurred during the first 6 months of this year were settled within one day, and 56.5 per cent of them within 2 days. 
The Commonwealth Statistician is precluded by legislation from divulging information obtained from individual employers and trade unions concerning industrial disputes, so that it is not possible to provide the information sought about each strike or dispute. 
I did see the report. I recognised it immediately for what it was - a bit of cheap political gimmickry which has backfired on the Premier of New South Wales so forcefully that he is now backing away from it as fast as he can. Of course, it is gimmickry of the Watergate style. The Premier seeks to fool the people of New South Wales into believing that he can cure industrial unrest better than the Labor Party can cure it when, in point of fact, the vast majority of strikes in the last 12 months have occurred in New South Wales. Whether one measures it by the number of strikes or by the number of man-days lost, one sees that New South Wales has by far the worst record of all the States. There is clear evidence of provocation on the part of the New South Wales Government. That Government is doing everything it can to provoke stoppages. I have 3 examples of the New South Wales Government's provocation of industrial stoppages in the railway industry. Commissioner Shirley of the New South Wales Public Transport Commission deliberately stranded the passengers of the Indian Pacific train in Broken Hill for a day. This was absolutely unnecessary. On another occasion when the union drew attention to the fact that one of the rails on the South Coast line was un safe, that in some cases it had sagged below the ground and in others was protruding above the ground, and asked the Railways Commissioner to check the safety of the South Coast line the Government deliberately closed the line altogether although the union had indicated that it was willing to operate on one of the 2 tracks until the other could be checked. 
There is no doubt whatsoever that the New South Wales Government is attempting to create a situation of tension within that State. If this leads to the introduction of emergency powers under which workers will be gaoled for striking, we will find a near revolutionary situation in which there could be bloodshed in the streets of Sydney and in provincial cities of New South Wales. If this is what it proposes to do a vote for the Askin Government is a vote for bloodshed and anarchy. The guilty men are the Askins and the other conspirators. That is what they are. Members of the Liberal Government of New South Wales are a bunch of conspirators who will stop at nothing to try to win some political advantage out of the distress and the inconvenience caused to the New South Wales public. The New South Wales public should seek to avoid the disaster that is awaiting them, and which will certainly come with the introduction of legislation under which the onus of proof will be upon the person charged. Let us not forget that. Much was said about the onus of proof in this place and in the other place during the recent debate on the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. If the people of New South Wales vote for the Askin Government they will prove themselves to be more gullible than the people of America were when they voted for the return of the Nixon Administration. 
I am glad to have been asked a second question on this matter because I have a couple of very strong points I can now make which I should have made earlier. The first point comes out in the question just asked. It is true that the Premier of New South Wales could have introduced emergency legislation at any time he wished. He does not need an election to introduce emergency legislation if there is any need for it. He has been there now for nearly 9 years and has made no effort at all- 
I thank the Prime Minister for his assistance.  Mr Askin  has had a majority in both Houses of Parliament; so there has been nothing to prevent him from bringing in this panacea for industrial unrest if he wanted to. If the emergency legislation be now talks about is the panacea for industrial unrest which he now pretends it to be, he ought to be in gaol for not introducing it earlier. However, it will not cure anything, and Askin knows it. 
I am coming to that. The McGirr Government introduced legislation in 1949 and found out one thing that  Mr Askin  apparently has not yet discovered - I know that he has been knighted, but he is still  'Mr' to  me - and that is that a gaol sentence cannot be imposed upon any person who is covered by a Federal award; no State government can impose a gaol sentence upon a person covered by a Federal award. So, if there is an emergency that involves people covered by Federal awards,  Sir Robert  Askin's gaol penalties cannot be applied in any case. That is why it was necessary for complementary legislation to be introduced 
I have received a letter from the honourable gentleman about this matter. I did not know such reports existed until I became Minister. In fact, I did not know then until several weeks had passed when it was leaked to me by somebody inside the Department of Labour that such a system existed and that my predecessor had given instructions that I was not to get a copy. I now get copies regularly. I do not know whether the reports come out each Monday. I think the honourable member is right; they probably do. He will be pleased to know that he will be provided with a copy, not on a confidential basis. He can show it to all his Melbourne Grammar School friends. In fact, he can show it to all his friends from category A schools. I will also make copies of the reports available to the various trades and labour councils, to the Australian Council of Trade Unions, to the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations and to the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As the honourable member may know, the submission to which he refers ranges over a large number of issues relating to women, including equal pay end equal opportunity in employment, maternity leave, and the training, vocational guidance and employment services available to women. On most of the issues raised in the submission significant progress has been made and considerable improvements brought about by this Government. The ILO Convention No.111 on Discrimination (Employment and Occupation) has been ratified and we have established National and State Committees to eliminate improper discrimination and promote real equality of opportunity in employment and occupation. The Government has helped to achieve further progress toward the realisation of equal pay. The Government has also considerably extended the maternity provisions available to Australian Government employees and removed the age barrier to permanent appointment in the Service. The inquiry by the Advisory Committee on Commonwealth Employment Service Statistics, the proposed household incomes and expenditure patterns survey and the National Survey of Incomes for the Henderson Commission of Inquiry into Poverty, should all, among other things, lead to the provision of greater and better information about women in the labour force. I am effecting improvements to the Commonwealth Employment Service and vocational guidance services, planning the introduction of a National Training Scheme, and proposing to enhance and enlarge the role and functions of the Department of Labour's Women's (Bureau. I have given considerable attention to the matter of apprenticeship training and taken steps to greatly increase the opportunities available to all our young people. 
Not all that the Women's Electoral Lobby seek in their submission has been achieved but the progress we have made to improve the situation of women in the labour force is considerable, especially when viewed against the performance of the previous Government in these matters. 
 I move: 
That the amendments be agreed to. 
I must say on behalf of the Government that it is a bitter disappointment to me that the Senate saw fit to reject the 6 clauses dealing with amalgamation because one of the things that is plaguing industrial relations today is the demarcation dispute which arises as a result of having too many unions and which cause employers to be the innocent sufferers and bystanders in these stupid, inane disputes over which union shall cover which particular occupation. This tragedy - and it is nothing less than a tragedy in industrial relations - will never be resolved until the Parliament alters the Act in such a way as to make it easier for unions to amalgamate and thereby to reduce the number of unions. We have 303 unions for 13 million people. In West Germany there are 16 unions for 61 million people. But we never see demarcation disputes in West Germany - disputes as to which man will pull which cord or touch which button. I am bitterly disappointed that these clauses were rejected by the Senate. 
I am also disappointed that the Senate rejected the provision in the House of Representatives Bill which made it obligatory upon a commissioner to ensure that before he certifies an industrial agreement he is satisfied that the employees bound by the agreement have been consulted, because if the employees are not consulted they cannot be blamed if subsequently they repudiate the agreement. When there is a dispute or an attempt to repudiate an agreement union officials ought to go to the meeting, talk to the strikers and say: 
Listen, fair go. This is not my agreement that I am asking you to honour. I am asking you to honour your own agreement, the agreement that was put to you a year ago or 6 months ago, or whenever it might have been, explained to you, understood by you and voted on by you. Having heard the agreement, you authorised me to sign it. Now do the right thing.' Whenever a union official walks into a strike meeting with that trump card in his hand he will win every argument. I have done it time and again. If you ask them to honour an agreement that was made by somebody without their knowledge, that is a different thing;but if you ask them merely to honour their own agreement, you go in with a very powerful weapon. 
I regret that the Senate saw fit to refuse the amendments which I sought to give the Minister for Labour the right to administer all sections of the Act. We are in the ridiculous stiuation now where the Minister for Labour has the right to lay a complaint to the Industrial Court for a breach of an award hut has no right to make an application to the court for the interpretation of an award. A breach of the award is bound up with the meaning of the award. 
Yes, it is. Very often when you sue for a breach of an award the result hinges on the court's interpretation of the award. By these indirect means the Minister for Labour can get an interpretation anyhow, but because of the amendments he can no longer make a frontal attack on the interpretation without prosecution. Now he can get an interpretation only by prosecuting. Very often the employer is not deliberately breaking the award; all he wants is to know what the award means. The Minister for Labour can find this out only by prosecuting. It is true that the Attorney-General can do it by application for interpretation, but that is the odd situation that we have. The Minister for Labour can intervene or be heard before the court in prosecution for a breach of award, but the AttorneyGeneral is the only one who can be heard in the court for an interpretation of an award. I must say that I am very disappointed that the legislation has been accepted in this form. My Party has instructed me that it will acceptthe Bill in the form in which it has been presented. 
For the information of honourable members I table the joint communique signed by leaders of the delegations which attended the first conference of South Pacific Labour Ministers in Sydney from 30 October to 1 November. The conference was highly successful and it was a notable step forward in dealing with labour and related subjects in the South Pacific region. 
The Leader of the Opposition has indicated that he will give leave for me to make a statement as soon as question time has finished, which is now really - subject, of course, to what the Prime Minister says. It will touch upon the matter that the honourable member has raised. If that undertaking still stands, I will leave the matter until then. 
I ask leave to make a statement concerning the matters raised at question time by 2 honourable members. 

 - Mr Speaker, I certainly could not deal with a question like that in a few minutes. If the Leader of the Opposition will give me an assurance that leave will be granted, I win deal with it after question time. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The statistics relating to Unemployment Benefit recipients are compiled and analysed by the Department of Social Security. The Table below provides the latest available information in respect of the ages of persons receiving Unemployment Benefit for each State. 
The information required is not available. However the Table below shows the period for which Unemployment Benefit recipients at the latest date for which figures are available had been continuously receiving Unemployment Benefit. 
A claimant for Unemployment Benefit is required to register for employment with the Commonwealth Employment Service and to accept suitable work which may be offered by the Employment Service. If the claimant refuses an offer of suitable employment this is reported by the Commonwealth Employment Service to the Department of Social Security which then determines eligibility for Benefit. 
The first part of the question was why I asked the Premier of Vic toria to discipline the Liberal senators from that State. The answer is that I thought they should have been disciplined because they acted in an obstructive way. They allowed petty, party-political points to overshadow the good will of industry and, I think, the national interest. I have not learned tactics like this from the Communist Party, because I do not associate with members of the Communist Party and therefore I do not have advantage enjoyed by the honourable member for Balaclava in this regard. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Earlier this year various public service unions lodged claims with the Public Service Board seeking salary increases for their members employed in both the administrative and clerical and related grades of the Third Division and in the Second Division of the Australian Public Service. 
In response to these claims the Public Service Board offered a 12 per cent salary increase for all Third Division classifications involved and a 16 per cent salary increase for Second Division officers. 
A flat percentage increase within each division, and a different level of increase between divisions, widens still further the gap between executive classes and rank and file workers and does not pay sufficient regard to the position of the lower paid workers. I believe that increases should have been designed to provide the greatest good for the greatest number. This ought to have been done to ensure that the needs of the lower paid workers and their families are properly met. 
An alternative approach to salary fixation which I proposed in this instance, and which would have achieved this objective, is to share the total cost of the salary increase equally between all the participating employees. 
My proposal would have benefited approximately 74 per cent of all officers covered by the agreement because it would have given increases equal to or greater than proposed by the agreement for all officers with salaries of $6832, or less. No less than 58,000 officers would have received the same or more than the offer under my proposal. 
The following table gives a comparison between what Second and Third Division Officers would have received under my proposal compared with the amounts that they in fact received under the arrangements entered into between the Board and certain Public Service unions. 
I have not yet received the letter of commendation from  Mr Hamer  but I expected it to come at any moment. It would be very odd for a person in  Mr Hamer's  position not to commend me for the initiative which I have taken. I am suprised at the cool reception which my proposal has received from the Leader of the Opposition and from other honourable members behind him because having, listened to their questions and their criticism of the Government for allegedly not doing anything, one would have thought they would have been only too pleased to give the credit which is due to the Government for the initiative now being taken and to do everything possible to ensure that the conference is a success instead of throwing cold water on it before any of the constituent bodies have even had an opportunity to study the propositions that I am putting. 
The Leader of the Opposition, without even discussing the matter or the possible reaction from the parties involved, took it upon himself last night to declare that the conference would fail to reach agreement on certain of the points. It is quite clear that that was a case of the wish being father to the thought. There is no doubt about that; the Opposition parties want the conference to fail. They do not want to see an end to industrial unrest. They think it suits their petty party political aims to have a lot of strikes because they believe that this is one way of trying to embarrass the Government. 
First of all, the right honourable gentleman is quite wrong in giving what purports to be a quote of what I said, I think, on 9 November or which was allegedly reported on 9 November. I did not say anything about politicians, employers and unions sitting around bottles of champagne in smoke filled rooms in the dead of night trying to work out industrial relations. What I said- 
 I am always careful. I am much more careful than the right honourable member is. What I have said was that we cannot expect employees to honour an industrial agreement about which they have never been consulted but which has been worked out behind closed doors with employers and union secretaries sitting around tables with champagne and cigars, or something like that. I said nothing about politicians or members of Parliament being involved. I do not think that politicians, especially ones like the honourable member's good self, add anything to industrial relations or to a better understanding of them because they are always grandstanding, trying to think of what to say that will read well in the newspapers, and trying to score off the opposing parties. That is why I have been averse to the idea of bringing a whole lot of politicians and Premiers from the States into this industrial peace conference. I have the highest respect for  Mr Pat  Hills but I do not think he would add anything considerable to the conference that it is now proposed to hold on 10 December or 11 December. I do not think that  Mr Hamer  would add anything and, for that matter, I think that  Mr Dunstan  would be too busy to attend the conference. What we want to do is to have an industrial peace conference where the parties principally concerned with industrial peace" can go with a spirit of goodwill and understanding and not be plagued by damn politicians sitting there saying things that they hope to leak to the Press when the conference is over as representing what they told the other side. The less politicians are involved in this the better. 
I agree with that. It is fortunate that the conference will be held under the chairmanship of a statesman whose determination is to see that better industrial relations are achieved. 
 (Quorum formed)  Mr Speaker,  I think it is deplorable that when a discussion on a matter of public importance is raised by the Opposition's official spokesman on industrial matters only 4 members of the Liberal Party bother to come into this place to hear what he has to say. So that this may be put on the record I propose to write into the annals of history the names of the faithful four who bothered to come in here and listen to their official spokesman. Apart from the official spokesman, the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  there was the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox),  the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury),  who was kind enough to call for a quorum, and the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street).  Not a living soul from the Liberal Party -  - 
If that is the case I did not see you, which is unusual. But if you were here I apologise to you. I was talking about members of the Liberal Party. Immediately I said that there were only four, up jumped the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  and said: 'What about me?' Apparently he has decided to switch sides and join the Liberal Party. I can understand why he is beginning to feel ashamed of his own Party and is now wanting to change sides. This has been an extraordinary debate because of the fact that nobody from the Opposition side wanted to hear even the honourable member for Wannon. This indicated a lack of enthusiasm and a lack of expectation of excitement on the part of honourable members opposite. The other extraordinary thing about this debate has been the poor level of debating displayed by the honourable member for Wannon. If he cannot rise to the occasion no one can because on the question of industrial relations he is easily the most talented of those on the Opposition side. It is like a breath of fresh air to us on this side of the House to hear the reasonable approach which the honourable gentleman so often displays. If one can take him at face value, I believe he is genuinely anxious for the industrial peace conference to succeed. But if he is anxious I wager he is the only member on the Opposition side who wants the industrial peace conference to succeed. 
I will say that last night the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  did rise above his normal standard when he deals with communism. He made a very worthwhile suggestion which I shall note and which / I intend - I say this quite seriously - to put J to the industrial peace conference, namely that when an application is made for a new award the union will not be penalised for being patient enough to wait until the judgment is finally given. So patience will be rewarded by the granting of retrospectivity covering the whole of the interregnum between the lodging of the application and the granting of the award. 
The honourable member for Wannon was a little unkind to me - this was the only thing about his remarks that saddened me somewhat - when he criticised me, I thought most unfairly, by saying that there should have been better communications between me, the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the employers over this forthcoming industrial peace conference. There have been communications between my good self, and the various bodies - the unions and employers. I do not intend to reveal to the public the nature of those talks. I cannot reveal, without prejudicing the success of the conference, the names of the people with whom I have spoken. Neither can I reveal the enormous encouragement I have received from the parties which will be coming to this conference. I can also say at this point that in order that the conference will go off with maximum success, I do not intend to keep a record of any of the remarks made by the members at the conference and neither do I intend to repeat privately or publicly any of the conversations which I will inevitably find myself engaged in with one group or the other. 
I am obliged to the honourable member for having such perception. This industrial peace conference can succeed if it receives goodwill and the support of men of goodwill. It is getting quite laudable support from the Press and from the media generally and for this I am very grateful. Given this sort of approach to this terribly complex and sensitive problem that will have to be faced at the conference, we can succeed and Australia will be all the better for it. 
I cannot deal with some of the criticisms which the honourable member for Wannon made against my Cabinet colleague, the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson).  He was again, I think, unfair. He showed a rare and unusual streak of bitterness in his character - one which I have never observed before - when he described the Minister's statement as vicious and by-partisan. All that the poor Minister did was to say that he was gravely concerned about costly delays which have been caused on Government construction projects in Sydney by Master Builders' Association lockouts. The learned and honourable member for Wannon went on to express the view, which is a very complicated legal view - I assume he has had legal training to fit him to engage in these sorts of assumptions - that this was not legally a lockout at all. For the honourable gentleman's benefit - and the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  would put his mind at rest on this - whenever there is a bans clause in an award it automatically becomes an offence, and therefore an illegal act, to engage in a lockout or a strike. However, the honourable gentleman did make a very telling point when he asked: 'Why does the Government talk about punishing employers for lockouts and not about punishing the employees for their strikes?' That could be put very well by a person who had not had such a long association with the governments with which the honourable member had previously been associated before the advent of the Whitlam Labor Government because for 23 long weary and dreary years we saw the Opposition Parties, when they were in Government, doing precisely the same thing in reverse. It was always the unions which were wrong and it was always the employers who were right. 
There was only one bright star in the previous Government's forces and again oddly enough that was the honourable member for Wannon who in 1956 went on record - he is very proud about this; he mentions it at every waterside workers' meeting that he attends - proudly proclaiming his support for the shearers' strike. Good luck to him. I am pleased to hear it. Does anybody have the right to say that he is a traitor to his class? Does anybody have the right to say that he has betrayed the interests of Australia just because in 1956 he supported the shearers' strike? Of course not. All that he did in 1956 was to try to be rational and objective by supporting the people who were right and condemning the people who were wrong. That is what I always try to do and that was what my colleague, the Minister for Housing, was doing when he commented on the lockout by the Master Builders Association. 
The honourable gentleman seems to be trying to pour petrol on the fire and to cause trouble between myself and my very dear colleague, the Minister for Housing, by saying that everybody has taken everything out of my hands and that I have no say any more in labour matters. I assure the honourable gentleman that no statement which affects labour matters is ever released by Ministers unless it comes to me first. The Minister who prepared the release which has been referred to came to me and I was glad to endorse it. In fact, I altered a few words to make it a little tougher. After that toughening up process I said: 'It is OK with me, Leslie, go ahead'. This release was well thought out by us. Of course, I am the official spokesman for labour. I am not being bypassed. 
The honourable member for Wannon then attacked my good friend, the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  on his support for the 35-hour week struggle in New South Wales. The Minister for Minerals and 
Energy conferred with me throughout that struggle and he had my full and complete support in what he did. Of course there should be a 35-hour week in the power industry just as there should have been an increase in the shearing rates in 1956. I was right this year in supporting the 35-hour week proposed in the power industry just as you were right in opposing the employers in 1956 for resisting the increase sought in the wages of shearers. 
No. I was looking at the very lovely lady sitting alongside the honourable member for Wannon. He had much to say about the 400 policemen who had to stand guard to prevent builders labourers from going to work. The honourable member for Wannon said that it was a shocking thing that 400 police were needed to stop the builders labourers from going back to work. They did succeed in stopping them from going back to work. The police arrested many of the builders labourers. An odd thing about the New South Wales Police Force - I hope the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  is not in the chamber; I see that he is not - is that its members were unable to find even the addresses of the '33 Club' and the 'Forbes Club' and, when they eventually did find the addresses of those 2 gambling dens of iniquity, all that they did was to stand outside and take the names of the patrons who went in. The police made no arrests at all. One wonders whether there is not someone in the present New South Wales Government who is doing Very nicely, thank you' out of gambling dens. Otherwise, how does one explain the fact that police can stop builders labourers from going on to their place of work but they cannot stop gamblers from going into these places of ill fame. 
I apologise to the honourable member for Hunter. He has been here all the time. He asks a very good question: How did Bill Waterhouse get his licence back? How did he? If the honourable member for Wannon were to concern himself with matters such as this, he would be doing a greater public service than he is doing by attacking my ministerial colleague for doing the job as he sees it ought to be done. Of course I deplore physical violence. Every honourable member on this side of the House deplores physical violence - except one, the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes),  who would not have engaged in an act of physical violence but for the fact that his honour was challenged and he had no alternative but to go out into the King's Hall and stand up for his good name.. 
I wish I had time available to me to talk about the excellent work being done by  Mr Justice  Aird. The honourable member who raised this matter was right in referring to the excellent work that the learned judge is doing. He is doing a good job and he ought to receive the support of both sides of the Parliament. But  Mr Justice  Aird's work is not being helped by the kind of undisciplined remarks in which the honourable member for Wannon has been engaging this afternoon. There is no doubt at all, if I may return to the conference, that - 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of Social Security which compiles the statistics of unemployment benefits has provided the following most recent figures of the duration of receipt of unemployment benefit for the categories in which they are available in respect of (a) the area covered by the Bendigo Office of the CES and (b) Australia as a whole. 
The Australian Government, at the Asian Labour Minister's Conference in Tokyo this year, was invited to host the 1975 Asian Labour Ministers Conference. That Australia should have been chosen at that Tokyo Conference to host this terribly important Asian Conference was a great honour bestowed on the Australian people. Members of the House will be pleased to know, I am sure, that we have with us today a delegation from the Japanese worker movement who are visiting Australia. 
Honourable members - Hear, Hear! 
This visit indicates the importance which the Japanese Government pays to the whole question of creating a better understanding between our 2 countries. The young men and women who are here today will, I am sure, be able to contribute a tremendous amount to the growing friendship between our 2 great countries. I have discussed this matter with the Prime Minister and I am pleased now to be able to announce that the Government will host the Asian Labour Ministers Conference in 1975. 
As the Prime Minister points out, there will be a statesman in the chair. At the Asian Labour Ministers Conference, in Tokyo, I was appointed vicechairman. All present joined in saying that my chairmanship was something that was to be envied. I must say that I felt that they were quite sincere in this statement. In public life, one usually knows when one is doing a good job and when one is not, and I knew that I was at my best in Tokyo. It was a splendid conference. Great credit is due to the Government of  Mr Tanaka  for the way in which that Conference was organised. The Japanese delegation which is present today will be gratified to know that the Prime Minister himself will officially receive them shortly. 
The rather dramatic motion that has been appearing on the notice paper for a few days reads: 
That this House requires an explanation and apology from the Minister for Labour for his conduct in misleading it on 16 October as recorded in Hansard at pages 2134-2135. in that he falsely reported the advice tendered by an officer of of his Department. 
I first learnt of this notice from my private secretary,  Mr Milton  Cockburn, who came rushing into my office to say: 'Have you just heard what has come over the blower?' The blower' is what we call the loudspeaker system that transmits into the offices what is said in the Parliament. I said: 'No. What has happened?' He said:  'Mr Wentworth  has given notice that he will move a motion'. I have just read the terms of the motion. I went on writing. He said: 'Excuse me, Minister. Did you hear what has just come over the blower?' I said: 'Yes, I have heard you*. He said: 'But it is requiring you to apologise and explain'. I said: 'Yes, I know; but you said it was  Mr Wentworth,  didn't you?' He said: 'Yes, that is right'. I said: 'In that case, don't bother me. 
Let me go on with my work'. He said: 'Aren't you concerned?' I said: 'Not the slightest, firstly, because it is  Mr Wentworth,  and secondly, because the content of the motion is so palpably silly and so easily answered that I would just like to be allowed to continue undisturbed with my reading and my writing, if you don't mind*. 
He retired and excused himself, looking rather embarrassed as, I suppose, on reflection he now realises he had every cause to be for disturbing me when I was engaged in some casual reading just to tell me that the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  required me to offer an explanation to the Parliament and to apologise for saying something that was perfectly true. 
-It was frivolous, but it is not the first time that frivolous motions have been moved by the honourable gentleman in this Parliament. The last motion, which he moved this morning, was very good. I admired him, and I thought that he might maintain in speaking to his second motion the high standard he displayed in moving the first motion. But I was too disappointed really. I did not expect that he would be able to maintain that kind of standard in the second one, because he is not so good. It is just not possible to do it. 
Will I offer an explanation to the House? Of course I will. I will always give an explanation to the House of anything I do. In this case, will I make an apology? No. By all means I will make an apology when I am wrong but certainly never when I am right, and this happens to be one of the numerous occasions when I am right in what I say. I am sorry that the honourable gentleman wasted his money in putting silly little advertisements in the daily Press. 
He could have got them for nothing. That is a possibility. It may be that he was being used as a fall guy for somebody else and that it did not cost him anything. But let us assume, 'as I am always prepared to do - let us be charitable about these things - that the honourable gentleman did pay and paid the full rates. I can only say that on that assumption it was a waste of money. He did not get his money's worth. He did not convince anyone, because un fortunately for him the advertisement itself prompted one of my more alert followers on this side of the House to ask a question the very next day. The honourable member for Bonython  (Mr Nicholls),  who is always alert to the misrepresentations that are so frequent in the daily Press, asked me whether I knew about the advertisement. I anticipated a question coming from the other side of the House, and so I had armed myself before I came into the Parliament with the relevant reply and information that devastated the advertisements and made the honourable member for Mackellar behave in such a way that the House very properly expelled him from this chamber for a period of 24 hours - a punishment which he justly deserved and which, except for the fact that the standing orders limited his suspension to 24 hours, should have been for a much longer period for the disgraceful performance he put on on that occasion. 
The honourable gentleman was very good in one way about the case this morning, because he tried to give me an out by saying: ^Perhaps he did not know what was going on inside his Department. Perhaps he did it in ignorance. Knowing the honourable gentleman as I do, I am pretty certain that he would not do what he did deliberately; so if he will just say that he was ignorant of the whole facts and that this is the reason why he misled the House I think the House will accept his apology and explanation'. First of all, of course I do not know of everything that is going on in my Department. I wish I did. There are 4,000 officers employed there. No Minister can be au fait with everything that is happening in his Department, no matter how good he is. I do not know everything that happened in relation to the document referred to but I know more about it than the honourable gentleman, and particularly the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  would like me to know. I will say something about this in a moment. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition may leave his pencil alone until I get to him, because it does not suit me to do so now. 
Of course, the honourable member for Mackellar is right when he says that a Minister who lies is not fit to hold his portfolio. That is quite right. We thought that ourselves in the last Parliament and in the one before that. We often said it but nobody took any notice of it then. We often caught Ministers from the Liberal-Country Party Government of the day lying and we proved they were lying. We asserted that they were lying. But the rules were different then. The honourable gentleman opposite who now says that a Minister who lies is not fit to hold his portfolio then thought it was perfectly in order for a liar to hold his portfolio. Well, I have not changed my mind. I still believe that a person who lies is not entitled to hold his portfolio. A lie is knowingly to tell an untruth. A person can tell an untruth without knowing that it is an untruth, but if he knows that it is an untruth he is lying and he has no right to hold his position as a Minister. 
The honourable gentleman then complained that the figures which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  quoted in this House to show that there had been a decline in labour's share of the gross national product since 1948-49 were being used by him as a foundation for the Prime Minister's referendum case. He stumbled upon something which, by coincidence, happens to be a very important fact - that the whole argument in which we are now engaged is really whether we should take 1948-49 as the base year for calculations, taking it up to 1968-69, or whether our 20-year calculations should commence from 1953-54 and end at 1973-74- or from 1952-53 and end at 1972-73. It is a notorious fact that if the 1948-49 figures are taken one gets a different result from that achieved by taking the 1953-54 figures. 
The economists explain that this is due to the fact that in 1948-49 we were still benefiting from price control, that therefore it is unfair to take as a starting point a year which fell within the beneficial results of price control, and that we ought to move on to 1953-54 when the evil effects of having no price control began to manifest themselves. The economists say that, by doing so, the comparison becomes economically more accurate. I am concerned not only with the economics but also with the political facts of life. The Prime Minister unwittingly - intelligent though he is - was making a much more powerful point for price control than even he realised, in drawing attention to the fact - again by accident - that the result obtained for a 20-year comparison starting at 1948-49 when price control effects were still manifest is different from that obtained by drawing a comparison with later years when the benefits of price control had passed away. 
I was amused to hear the honourable gentleman talk about his poverty and say that he had to draw on his own limited financial resources to carry out his own inquiries and to put this series of advertisements in the newspaper. No one in this Parliament is as wealthy as the honourable gentleman. If his great-grandfather went down to the South Coast and pinched all the good land, good luck to him. I know that the honourable gentleman - this poor man - has such a fabulous property in Sydney and the grounds are so large that he must be the only person with grounds large to run his own kookaburras. How do I know that he has kookaburras in his extensive gardens? I read it in the newspaper. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  was addressing some ladies at a strawberry fete there not so long ago. He had said that the Opposition is now picking up ground politically. At that point the kookaburra burst out laughing. Is it any wonder? Of course it had to burst out laughing. The point I am making is not that the kookaburra woke up to the Leader of the Opposition, as most other people have already done, but that the honourable gentleman's elaborate and expansive private grounds are such that they are able to provide shelter for kookaburras. The honourable gentleman talks about twisting the Prime Minister's tail. It was the most amusing part of the whole speech. I thought it was excellent. I congratulate him on it. He ought to be on the stage. He would make a first class comedian. I think he is to be complimented on it. 
Let me move on to the gravamen of the complaint -  Mr James  of the Australian National University. It is very significant to me that the study of  Mr James  made was published in the journal of the Australian Industry Development Association, which is an employers' organisation. So can anyone suggest that this is not in some way biased? Of course it is. Research into labour's share of the gross national product was commenced initially in early 1970. The draft report on this initial work was subsequently expanded in the June quarter of 1971. The matter then lapsed until February 1972 when a decision was taken to update and expand research and to hasten its conclusion, with a view to publication later in the year in the Department's Labour Market Study series. However, it was subsequently decided, on the instructions of the present  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition who was then the Minister for Labour and National Service - now he may start making notes - that the publication would be deferred. Why did the then Minister decide to defer it? 
The reason is that the results were not giving the answer that he wanted. 
All right. I am telling the honourable gentleman that he asked for this report to be expedited. It was expedited. I am saying that he asked for it not to bc published. I am further asserting that he did that because he did not like the conclusions. In March of this year a slightly amended version of the draft prepared in 1972 was forwarded to the Minister's office. In April copies were forwarded to a number of academic economists for comments. A copy was forwarded to  Dr Hall  of the Australian National University and this copy was apparently passed to  Mr James.  Since then the draft has been revised to take into account the comments received from the academics, to incorporate the latest national earnings data including minor revisions in concept and methodology, and to include the results of further research into labour's share movements in the early post-war period. 
One of the officers involved in the research has been a  Mr Tilling.  As a result of some early work,  Mr Tilling,  with the approval of my Department, commenced in 1972 a minor masters thesis at Monash University in the area of functional income distribution. (Extension of time granted). As part of the candidature,  Mr Tilling  gave a seminar in July 1972. The report of  Mr Till ing's  seminar was tabled recently in the Parliament. The results of  Mr Tilling's  seminar and the Department's various draft reports indicate that since 1948-49 the more appropriate measures of labour's share show a clear and unmistakable downward trend but this decline is concentrated in the 1948-49 to 1953-54 period when the benefits of price control were starting to taper off. As a consequence the various measures show that labour's share has remained reasonably constant since 1953-54, but the fact remains that there has been a fall - I repeat the words 'a fall'; I wish the honourable member for Wentworth would stop interrupting my attack and listen to what I am saying - from 1948-49 to the 1970-71 period as a whole. 
As I said earlier, the starting point is the contentious issue. The present thinking by officers of my Department is that 1948-49 is the more appropriate starting point. It is also, by coincidence, the starting point which the honourable member for Mackellar used in his calculations. I might further add that my Department is presently finalising a comprehensive and detailed report of the share of labour in Australia in the post-war period which will be published in the Department's Labour Market Studies' series. I suggest that further discussion on this matter might therefore be postponed until the Department's paper is available in the final form for every interested person to read. In deference to the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly),  I will not read the rest of the other documents I have here in support of my earlier contention of 16 October when I said, quite properly and quite rightly, that labour's share of the gross national product since 1948-49 has fallen and that the Prime Minister was perfectly correct in putting the figures that he did to the Parliament. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the publication 'Industrial Disputes, August 1973 (Preliminary)', the Commonwealth Statistician provides available statistics of working days lost on account of industrial disputes involving a stoppage of work of 10 man days or more during the month of August 1973: 
The subject of employment assistance in rural areas is one upon which it is very difficult for the Government to make a final decision. The Cabinet decided some weeks ago to postpone further consideration of a proposition I had then put on rural unemployment relief, on the ground that the employment position was improving at such a rate that to give massive unemployment relief assistance in the country at that stage could easily create a situation in which employers in country areas would find it impossible to obtain workers because all the otherwise available workers in those areas would be employed on rural relief schemes. Subsequent events have proven that the Cabinet was right in the cautious attitude it took on that occasion because, whilst there were 31 distinct areas of quite bad unemployment in relation to the number of vacancies at that time in the areas concerned, we now find that the number of bad areas has been reduced to something like five or six; thus giving support to the Cabinet's hesitancy to rush into the proposition that I was then putting to it. I admit that it was right and I was wrong when I put the proposition at that time. 
The main areas of distress at the moment lie in the State of Tasmania. The  Deputy  Prime Minister and the honourable members for Braddon, Wilmot, Denison and Franklin have constantly been putting to me the need for something to be done in that State. We are looking at the matter. We hope that we can do something for Tasmania. 
The honourable member for Bendigo has spoken to me about this matter. The honourable member for Cowper also has spoken to me about it. The honourable member for Darling has constantly been bringing to my attention the position of Broken Hill. I might say that the honourable gentleman, who spoke to me about this matter again only this morning may be sorry to know that everything he said about Broken Hill's plight has been borne out by the official figures. Broken Hill is now the worst hit area in the whole of Australia. Port Pirie comes second. Coffs Harbour and Dubbo are other areas which are in a bad condition. 
Parts of Lismore perhaps are not too well off. Of course, they are not very well off politically, either, because of the kind of representation that they have in this Parliament. Until now, by way of a silly interjection, I had not heard a word from the member representing Lismore about the condition of the people in that city. I hope that the people of Lismore will remember that is was only at question time, by way of a flippant interjection, that their member of Parliament bothered to mention their plight to me. 
The seriousness of the employment situation was brought to light by the provisional midNovember figures, which have been given to me on a confidential basis but in relation to which I am prepared to let the House into the secret. What is happening in Australia at the mement, provisionally, is that we have no fewer than 87,500 unfilled vacancies and 62,000 people registered as unemployed. In the half-month to mid-November the number of vacancies increased by 1,900. That has happened at a time of the year when unfilled vacancies usually fall. Let me give the figures for the last 3 years. In 1972 unfilled vacancies fell by 5,000 in mid-November. In 1971 they fell by 3,500 in the same period. In 1970 they fell by 6,000 in the same period. So, we are reaching a very delicate situation in which we have to consider very carefully how much money we will spend in rural areas on unemployment relief. There is, however, a special problem in Dubbo and Broken Hill. I intend to look at this problem. If it is possible to make some special grant that will relieve the distress there- 
I do not have any funds. That is what I am saying. If I had funds I would be able to say: 'I have plenty of funds and I have decided to allocate a certain sum to Broken Hill'. It is because I have no funds that I have to say that I will look at the situation and see what can be done. Broken Hill is a distress area. The honourable member for Darling is also distressed that these people might have to face Christmas with a house full of children and no work. We want that position to be avoided, if possible, and I intend to take the matter up with the responsible Ministers or authorities to see whether we can relieve the situation for these people. 
The answer to the first part of the honourable gentlemen's question is no. The answer to the second part of the question is no. The answer to the third part of the question is I do not know. Therefore, the fourth part of the question does not have to be answered. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) No. There was, in fact, a net outflow of workers during 1972 when some major construction projects were running down. However, the situation has now stabilised and I am informed that movements in and out of the State appear to be roughly in balance, and that the number of wage and salary earners in Western Australia increased by some 9,000 over the twelve months to August 1973. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. I believe the  President  of the Western Australian Chamber of Manufactures is wrong when he states that expanded social benefits, higher wages and salaries, a shorter working week, additional categories of leave and over award payments are adversely affecting industry in Western Australia. 
There are no official statistics available which would permit comparisons to be made between Western Australia and other States in respect of each of the points mentioned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have been informed that the Leader of the Opposition in the Western Australian Parliament,  Sir Charles  Court, made a statement on 6 November 1973 on a television program, that a state of industrial anarchy exists in Western Australia. I do not believe that this statement is correct. It is not borne out by the latest statistics of industrial disputes for the month of August 1973, which show that the total of working days lost in Western Australia over the period January to August, at 78,300, is lower than the total for the same period in 1972, at 81,600. 
The industrial disputes record in Western Australia for each of the15 calendar years prior to 1973 is shown in the following table: 
The terms of settlement of the Trans-Australia Airlines dispute have not previously been made public, but in view of the fact that quite a number of the travelling public believe that the terms of settlement did not involve the lifting of the threat of lightning strikes without notice, it is proper that I should make it quite clear that, among the terms of settlement which led to the return of the pilots to their normal duties, the Federation of Air Pilots gave an unconditional guarantee that it would not engage in lightning strikes, and that persons who buy passenger tickets on Trans-Australia Airlines' nights can be assured that they will travel on the day that they wish to travel and will be brought safely back home again. TransAustralia Airlines can guarantee passage to everybody who purchases tickets. 
On the question relating to the return of the pilot who was dismissed for an alleged breach of safety regulations, I can say that Trans-Australia Airlines has not re-engaged that pilot. Trans-Australia Airlines has a firm policy from which it will not depart. It will always put the safety of its passengers above the profit motive or above monetary considerations, and in no circumstances will Trans-Australia Airlines give up the right to dismiss a pilot who in the opinion of the Australian National Airlines Commission has committed a serious breach of safety regulations. In this case it was the view of the Commission that the pilot had committed a serious breach of safety regulations, and he was dismissed. He is still dismissed and will not be re-employed unless the Department of Civil Aviation in reviewing the case considers that the dismissal was a penalty too severe in the circumstances. But unless that decision is made by the Department the pilot will not be re-employed, because safety of our passengers is paramount to Trans-Australia Airlines. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek your indulgence in order to make an apology to the honourable member for Calare. 
I found it difficult to hear most of what the honourable member said. Next time he reads a question it would be better if he held his head up a little higher, as then his words might be audible. The question was not quite audible. From what I can gather, the honourable gentleman is asking whether I will support migrant labour for the provision of cheap house maids to wealthy squatters. I did see some reference in the Press only a few days ago to this question, and a question was asked of my colleague, the Minister for Immigration, the other day about the illegal importation of cheap coloured labour to be employed as cheap house help in wealthy people's homes. I can assure the honourable gentleman that if his inaudible question related to that particular subject he will get no support at all from my Department. We are not prepared to support any proposition that envisages near slave labour for wealthy people's wives, and that is the answer to that question. 
Pursuant to section 58 (1) (C) of the Stevedoring Industry Act 1956-1971, I present the annual report of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority for the year ended 30 June 1973, together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
 Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to make a short statement in which I will divulge for the first time the full text of the so far secret terms of settlements of the recent Trans-Australia Airlines dispute. I have shown the terms of the agreement to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  who unfortunately is not present, and he has agreed to support my request. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Commonwealth Employment Service does not compile statistics under these headings and to provide the information the member has requested would require an immense clerical task involving the examination of hundreds of thousands of registration cards. In terms of the possible value of the information the cost involved in the exercise would not appear to be justified. 
The Department of Social Security which is responsible for determining eligibility for Benefit has advised that it does not compile the required information, and that to produce it would involve a task similar in proportion to that needed under (1) and (2) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Inflation is a complex phenomenon and there is no simple or single solution. Any policy which attempted to restrain wage and salary increases to productivity growth in order to constrain inflation would ignore, for example, the more important contribution to the present inflation of the excessive build-up in liquidity under the previous government, and the repercussions of the upsurge in prices on the international commodity market. Further, in the twelve months to the September quarter 1973 the gross operating surplus of companies increased by 26.7 per cent compared with an increase of 19.3 per cent in total wages, salaries and supplements paid to all employees. (Source: CBCS Quarterly Estimates of National Income and Expenditure, September Quarter 1973  -  Preliminary Statement') 
There are no official estimates on the increase in productivity since December 1972 and in any case it is difficult to make meaningful measures of productivity over such a short period of time. Between the December quarter 1972 and September quarter 1973 average weekly earnings per employed male unit increased by 11.8 per cent after allowance for seasonal influences. (Source: CBCS 'Average Weekly Earnings, September quarter 1973') 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report of the Advisory Committee on Commonwealth Employment Service Statistics. 
Pursuant to section 70 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904- 1973, I present the seventeenth annual report of the  President  of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for the year ended 13 August 1973. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
241 productivity groups with 6,351 members were operating at 30 November last. 
At that date in 1971 there were 232 groups with 4,796 members and in 1972 242 groups with 5,595 members. 
A total of S3 positions is currently provided in my Department specifically for productivity action which includes assistance to the productivity groups organisation and the Productivity Promotion Council of Australia. 
The relevant figures are (a) 1971: 38 positions; (b) 1972: 39 positions. 
No direct funds are provided to State Productivity Group Advisory Councils. Departmental financial expenditure on productivity action in each of the last 3 financial years was: 
1970-71 1971-72 1972-73 
$47,944 $39,090 $48,623 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I was informed that during a recent dispute at the Kambalda operations of the Western Mining Corporation 35 striking employees were dismissed and served with eviction orders to vacate their company houses. The dispute has since been settled and the evictions did not take place. 
(a) and (b) Had these evictions been enforced and the employees and their families been required to move elsewhere the education of the children, and the family life of the people involved, would obviously have been affected. 
Even though the evictions did not take place, the company's threats naturally created considerable reaction in trade union circles and further industrial repercussions would have resulted had not the situation been resolved. 
I am concerned that companies could consider utilising employee entitlements such as the provision of accommodation as an industrial weapon with which to threaten workers and their families. This is a matter which I have asked my Department to examine. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Personnel Practice Section of my Department is currently carrying out research into industrial absenteeism. 
Two research projects are currently being undertaken: 
A National Survey of Absence Rates in which approximately 1,500 establishments were invited to complete a questionnaire seeking information on absence of employees for each working day during the month of October 1973. 
Design of the project commenced in March 1973. 
Case studies in three N.S.W. firms examining the extent of absence, causes of absence and methods used to control absence. 
Design of the project commenced in January 1973. This was followed by a preliminary telephone survey and field work in firms commenced in May 1973. 
(3&gt;- 
The National Survey of Absence Rates has, at different stages, involved three officers in the Central Office of the Department in Melbourne, and one officer in each of New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. 
The case studies have involved two officers in the Central Office of the Department in Melbourne and three officers in N.S.W. 
It is proposed that the results of the research will be published in the Personnel Practice Bulletin. 

It is proposed to publish the results of the National Survey of Absence Rates in the March 1974 issue of the Personnel Practice Bulletin. 
It is proposed to publish the findings of the case studies in the June 1974 issue of the Personnel Practice Bulletin. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following extract from the Joint Communique adopted by the Conference refers to the matter raised by the right honourable member: 
There was considerable discussion of developments in industrial relations in the maritime industry and the Conference expressed concern at the effect of some trade union activities in this industry in the region. The economies of the islands and the welfare of their people depend on reliable shipping facilities at reasonable freight charges. Increases in these charges adversely affected both the cost of imports and the incomes from exports. This in turn affected the efforts of the governments concerned to improve the standard of life of their people and to reduce unemployment. The burden was particularly felt by, the poorer sections of the community in the widely scattered islands of the region. The Conference concluded that there was an urgent need to create greater awareness among international trade union organisations (in particular the International Transport Workers Federation) and among trade union officials in the region, of the real problems and circumstances of the island communities in order to obtain their cooperation in working towards fair and reasonable conditions for those employed in the maritime services which will be consistent with the economic and social position of the peoples of the region'. 
There was no specific reference at the Conference to activities of Australian trade unions in this context. 
There have been no consultations with Australian trade unions on this matter. However, I have sent copies of the Joint Communique to the ACTU and to other central organisations of unions and employers. 
There have been contacts with the New Zealand Government on some aspects of conditions of employment in the maritime industry in the South Pacific and I expect that further consultations will take place with the governments of New Zealand and other South Pacific countries on matters in this industry as the need arises. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Conference agreed that exchanges of labour administration staff among countries with similar problems in the labour field would be helpful. 
-(4) The Conference was of the view that the roles and functions of labour departments should be related directly to local needs and should not necessarily be based on the wide range of functions and activities of labour departments in industrialised countries. Accordingly, it was left to countries which considered that exchanges of labour administration staff would be helpful to consult and to make necessary arrangements for any such exchanges. Australia will be prepared to co-operate in arrangements of this kind if they are considered helpful by other countries of the South Pacific region but, consistent with the views expressed by, the Conference, the scope for exchanges between Australia and other countries of the region is limited. I might add that approval had been given prior to the Conference for exchange of officers between the Australian and New Zealand Departments of Labour. 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Joint Communique issued by the Conference contained the following: 
The Conference considered that development of labour policies and their application should be given an important status and adequate financial resources and staff with the necessary qualifications and expertise should be provided. This would involve training such staff and the Australian and 
New Zealand Governments indicated that they were prepared to assist in this regard.' (2)-(4) Assistance in training labour administrators in Australia is already available under SPAP (South Pacific Aid Program),CPTS (Commonwealth Practical Training Scheme), in the case of Papua New Guinea, and under ILO fellowships. Further consultations, including with New Zealand, will be necessary to determine whether additional facilities are required. The right honourable member will be aware from paragraph15 of the Joint Communique that consideration is to be given to holding a seminar in a country of the region, with the co-operation of the International Institute for Labour Studies, which, inter alia, would help to elucidate the fields where training and other projects in the labour field are needed in the South Pacific. 
Perth Airport: Accommodation of Aged People within Flight Paths (Question No. 1670) 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I am not given to putting words into other people's mouths. As the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  was describing the plight of the people in Queensland, the honourable gentleman looked at the Minister and grinned and quite clearly said: 'They have never had it so good'. It may be true that back in his mind there were the unspoken words that that was what somebody else said but all I know is that all the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  said and all I could hear him say about the Queensland people who suffered from the floods was that they have never had it so good. 

 Mr NIXON (Gippsland)-  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The question is a very good one. The matter about which the honourable member talks is under constant consideration by the Government. We hope very shortly to be in a position to have before us the report and findings of the expert committee on some of the finer details of a retraining scheme. When that report comes to hand there is little doubt that the Government will be able to give effect to a training program that will do all the things that the honourable gentleman mentioned. 
 I seek leave to read a short statement that has just been issued by the Registrar on behalf of the Arbitration Commission. 
Some time today the representative of the Victorian Government,  Mr Dalton,  asked the Arbitration Commission to adjourn any further hearing of the national wage case until the strikes in the metal industries stop. The Commission adjourned to consider the request made by  Mr Dalton.  During the adjournment the court room was invaded by unionists; I presume they were unionists because the banners they carried had words referring to unionism. When the Commission returned to give its decision on the application by  Mr Dalton,  the demonstrators interrupted the proceedings to the point where it was impossible for the Commission even to hear itself think, so to speak, because of the commotion and the distraction caused by the waving of banners. The  President  of the Commission,  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Moore, appealed for order pointing out to the demonstrators that it was utterly impossible for him to continue the hearing while they were interrupting and waving banners. It should not have been necessary for him to do this.  Mr Justice  Moore appealed to the demonstrators in a sensible and rational way to understand the situation that they were creating and to understand the plight of the 4.5 million workers outside the court room who were looking to the Commission for a decision. As the  President  pointed out, it was obviously quite impossible for the Commission to conduct its business under the conditions that had been created by the demonstration. 
What the demonstrators succeeded eventually in doing was to force the adjournment which  Mr Dalton  would probably have failed to get. The decision which the Commission would have given from the bench but for the demonstration was one which may not have pleased  Mr Dalton  as much as the result of the demonstration. The  President  of the Arbitration Commission - I want to put this on public record - is not a person who is insensitive to the deep feelings that are generated over issues that are raised in matters like national wage cases. On the opening day of the case, at which I was present, a very ugly demonstration took place. It was quickly settled however by the presence of mind and the tolerance and the good common sense of the  President  who on that occasion successfully appealed to the demonstrators to remain quiet and to put their banners away so that he could continue the hearing. 
No commission deserves the sort of treatment that the Arbitration Commission received at the hands of the demonstrators today. The present Commission is not unsympathetic to the working people of Australia and there is absolutely no evidence to suggest otherwise. This was proved by the Commission's historic decision in last year's national wage case to restructure the minimum wage with a record increase of $9 a week. 
As I said, I was present on the opening day of the present case and I admired very greatly the manner in which  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Moore handled the very delicate situation that arose on that day. On that occasion the demon strators were allowed to make their point and they immediately responded as sensible men would be expected to do to the appeal made by  His  Honour. However, on this occasion they did not do so. All that is happening now is that the court has been forced to adjourn the proceedings sine die. The Commission will not resume those hearings unless they can be resumed in an atmosphere which makes it possible for the proceedings to be conducted properly. 
I support fully the action of the Commission in refusing to conduct its business under such conditions. The Government deplores these attempts to disrupt the proceedings of the Arbitration Commission. The Government wants this case to be resumed as quickly as possible so that the 4.5 million workers who were not in the demonstration and who are waiting upon the result of the Commission's hearing - those workers who have so much to gain if wage indexation which the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Government is supporting is introduced - can share in the benefits that can come from the present proceedings. I hope that the unions, whichever they are, responsible for organising this campaign will now see the error of their ways and that the Commission will be permitted to conduct its business in an orderly manner. 
35-HOUR WEEK 
I am at a loss to understand why such a question should be directed to me. I have no funds to provide what the honourable gentleman asks me to provide. I would think that the honourable member, having served in this House for as long as he has and having been a Minister, would know by now that it is the Treasurer, not I, to whom he should direct such a question. 
I congratulate the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  for initiating the discussion of this matter of public importance - the serious consequences for rural industry of any increase in the price of oil. Of course the honourable member for Eden-Monaro is concerned about the price of oil. Why would anybody who represents a rural electorate, as he so ably represents his, not be concerned about the price of oil? The great pity is that the people who purport to be representing country electorates and who for the time being go under the name of the Australian Country Party, which is soon to be called the Alliance Party or the National Alliance Party, have not so far shown the same deep concern for country people that has been shown repeatedly by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro. 
The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  read a speech to the Parliament that sounded as though it had been written only yesterday in the offices of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. He forecast that $200m a year would be needed to carry out an appropriate level of oil exploration. But he did not tell us that the proposed oil increases that he is now supporting would mean to the farming community alone a total cost effect of $295m a year plus an enormous amount to the people who do not belong to the farming community. The Leader of the Australian Country Party,  like a thief - not a thief but like a thief - who is caught with his fingers in the till, is pretending that they are only there counting the day's takings. Today he said: 'I have not yet said by how much I would increase the price of petrol and the price of oil if the people were to elect me to government'. He forgot - but I did not - the statement that he made on the program 'This Day Tonight'. I shall quote one extract from it. He said: 
One is that when this has to be renegotiated next year it will probably go up to a tremendous level which will have a big impact on Australian industry and Australian motorists. 
What the Leader of the Australian Country Party has said about oil and the proposed increase in the price of steel is well documented. So there is no need for me to quote his public demand for higher petrol prices. But I do want to quote a statement that was contained in one of his official Press releases. Among other outrageous things, he had this to say: 
The argument will be raised that higher steel prices would be inflationary. No doubt they would be, but is the short term inflation factor the only one to be considered? 
And should BHP be used by the Government as an anti-inflation weapon to the extent that far more serious long term problems are caused? 
Of course that is a different story from the story that is told by the Country Party when the national wage case is in operation and it says that it is all right to use wage earners to control inflation. 
I seek leave to incorporate the whole of the statement in Hansard. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
BHP's STEEL PROFITS CAUSE FOR CONCERN 
Statement by the Leader of the Country Party, Rt Hon. J. D. Anthony 
The low profitability of BHP's steel operations should be a matter of public concern. 
It is a serious thing when Australia's greatest company cannot do better than achieve a return on its huge capital investment of 2 per cent. 
There needs to be careful consideration pf the causes of this poor performance. 
The Australian people should ask themselves whether the prices at which BHP is virtually forced to sell steel are really good for the nation in the long run. 
They should ask themselves whether it is sensible to deny this company the financial sinews it must have if our steel industry is to keep expanding to meet the nation's needs. 
The argument will be raised that higher steel prices would be inflationary. No doubt they would be, but is the short-term inflation factor the only one to be considered? 
And should BHP be used by the Government as an anti-inflation weapon to the extent that far more serious long-term problems are caused? 
If BHP is to be denied the incentive and the ability to pursue a sound reinvestment program to build up its steelmaking capacity, the nation as a whole will suffer much more than it would from the immediate consequences of increased steel prices. 
If BHP is not equipped to supply Australia's steel needs, or if it is forced to export more of its products so that it can gain some compensation through dearer world prices, then the Australian people will suffer either through shortages of steel or through having to import much more highly priced steel to meet their needs 
There are people in positions of leadership in Australia who are prepared to foster the idea that profit is an evil thing. 
In doing so they are betraying the great mass of the people, whose incomes, amenities and general standard of living depend to a very large degree on the profitability of industry. 
In fact, the whole ability of government to provide the services sought by the community depends, in the end, on the profitability of Australian industry. 
The matter of the apparently substantial profits earned by BHP on its oil and gas operations also needs to be carefully considered. 
These earnings are coming from wells with limited life, and after very heavy expenditure on search and development. The prices being paid for oil and gas produced in Australia are not by any means an inducement to further oil and gas search and development. 
Compared with world prices, the prices received by the Australian producer are unrealistically low. 
Continued acceptance of this situation might be popular in the short-term, but its long-term implications demand serious study. 
The members of the Country Party oppose the Government's support to giving wage earners not an exorbitant profit in addition to something they are already getting but enough to live on. They say that that is inflationary. 
They say that what one must do when one is dealing with wages, as distinct from oil prices and profits, is to depress those wages because you can control inflation by depressing the living standards of the working people. While farmers are being burdened alternatively by droughts, floods and rising costs the Country Party is busying itself in pushing policies that are designed to increase further the burden of meeting the increased cost of fuel, farm machinery and all the other purchases that would be affected by the 
Leader of the Country Party's proposal for an increase in the .price of steel. The direct cost to the farming community of his proposal would be $28m a year, compared with the cost of taking away the superphosphate bounty of S50m, less the tax deduction, which I have been led to understand by the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  would produce a net cost of about S30m. So the Country Party does not mind imposing a cost of $290m. That would be the total effect cost upon the rural industry. That is all right. But it is a terrible thing when somebody suggests that a benefit that might have amounted to some $30m in net results per annum is taken away. 
The Country Party is no longer the representative of the country people in general or of the farmers in particular. It is now the direct representative of the shipping combines, of the financial and commercial interests of the cities and of the magnates of secondary industry. BHP is but one of the interests that it represents in this Parliament in greater priority than it does the farming community, but it is a very significant interest. The Country Party now relies so heavily upon BHP for its campaign funds. From where do honourable members think McEwen House came? From where do honourable members think the Country Party got the money to buy Downer House? Why is it that members of the Country Party have been walking around with a smug smile on their faces since they found out that the Liberal Party of Australia got 5250,000 at its fund raising dinner? They can afford to be smug because they know that they will get infinitely more than that from the wealthly vested city interests that they now represent. 
Let me quote now from an article in a very responsible newspaper, the Canberra Sunday Post' of 10 March. It states: 
The concern shown by  Mr Anthony,  Leader of the Country Party, for the profits of BHP must bring tears to the eyes of those country dwellers whose votes put him where he is. "The low profitability of BHP's steel operations should be a matter of public concern', he said. 
The argument will be raised that higher steel prices would be inflationary' he divined shrewdly. 'No doubt they would be, but is the short term inflation factor the only one to be considered?' 
A good question. 
The same  Mr Anthony  commenting on the abolition of the superphosphate bounty made his concern over inflation quite clear. 
Labor members from city areas', he counselled, could well be honest enough to explain to their constituents that this savage anti-rural decision will cause higher food prices for the housewife'. It is well known that from the days of  Sir John  McEwen onwards, BHP has contributed very substantial amounts to Country Party election funds. 
Why was the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  so savage about  Mr McEwen?  Because he was getting all the cream and the Liberal Party was missing out. It was because the Country Party had come to be recognised as the spokesman for the large wealthy financial and commercial city interests. No longer was it in fact the real spokesman of the farmers. The newspaper article continues: 
We know that this circumstance would have in no way influenced  Mr Anthony's  announcement- 
Of course not! Oh no! Of course McEwen House and the fact that large wads of BHP money were getting into the Country Party campaign funds would not be the reason for his concern about its profits!-- -I repeat: 
We know that this circumstance would have in no way influenced  Mr Anthony's  announcement and that his statement was made purely out of principle and in accordance with the high regard to principle which his Party always displays. 
Unfortunately I do not have time to quote the statement by the honourable member for Kennedy,  Mr Katter,  the now Official spokesman for the Country Party, in support of the farm interests. But let me quote what this responsible newspaper - the Canberra 'Sunday Post' - had to say a week later in an article headed 'Katter out of the Bag'. It states: 
Last week we mentioned that  Mr Anthony's  call for the Government to approve higher steel prices was in no way influenced by the fact that BHP gives large sums to Country Party election funds- 
-I am quoting from the Canberra 'Sunday Post' newspaper. The article continues:  but was solely motivated by principle. 
This week  Mr Anthony  again fell victim to principle and culled for the Government to approve higher prices for Australian oil. 
No prizes for guessing who is the major producer in Australia. 
Actually this sort of principle seems to be endemic in the Country Parly. 
The Country Party Mining Committee goes on an Australian wide bag carrying jaunt and comes back- with a 'policy' which might just as well have been written by the mining companies themselves. 
Of course we know that. What I want to know is what they are going to do with - 
Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
The 2 speeches made from the Opposition side would have been better not made at all. The Government is trying to organise Australian public opinion towards a more enlightened attitude to racial discrimination. It is a difficult task; it is a laudable one; it is one that deserves the full support of all right thinking people. But the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  have come into this chamber today, deliberately setting out to stir up racial hatred and racial intolerance because they believe that latent in the Australian community is an antipathy towards people with coloured skins or people of different races and origins. They are deliberately setting out to whip up and capitalise upon this latent element within the community - which they believe is still there and which they hope is still there, because if it is not their exercise today will have been wasted - so that they can score some petty political point from the Government in regard to the very humane, sen sible and rational attitude it has taken towards the question of racial discrimination. 
The honourable member for Kooyong protesteth just a little too much, I think. It seems that he has something to hide. Under what seems to be a liberal exterior is the soul of a racist. The same is true also, I fear, of the honourable member for Wannon. They are people who detest anyone who has not been born with a white skin. We on this side of the House reject that, and we throw that sort of attitude back in their faces. They know very well, and the honourable member for Wannon 
 I do not propose to say all the other things I had intended to say about the Liberal Party because I do appreciate the charity of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  in relation to this matter. Perhaps I can leave that until a later time. I want to say something about the racism that is being whipped up in this chamber today by the Opposition. It is a sad thing, I think, that members of the Opposition should seek to whip up an attitude of racism just to gain some petty political point. I say no more about that. I say nothing about the reason for the Australian Country Party refusing to go on a joint Senate ticket with  Senator Bonner,  an Aboriginal. That is something I will leave until later. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! There is no point of order involved. The honourable member is aware of that. 
I want to go at once to the Kirribilli Declaration that was issued on 15 March 1974. It will go down in the history of our country as one of the great declarations on human rights insofar as it relates to migrant tradesmen. Following a meeting between the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby),  the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and my good self, together "with the executive officers of the Australian Council of 
Trade Unions, this Declaration was issued. I would now like to read it for the purpose of having its contents incorporated in the official record. It reads: 
It was agreed that a  triparite  mission to South East Asia and the Pacific region - drawn from trade unions, employers and the relevant Government departments - should proceed first to Manila. On its return from Manila it will recommend the criteria for the recognition of tradesmen for all Australian industries. 
It was further agreed that a mission should also proceed to South America, commencing its work in Lima. Following the completion of the work of the missions Australian technical officers would be posted to the 2 regions, to operate from Manila and Lima. The Ministers and officers agreed to consult as required concerning the implementation of this program. 
The Kirribilli Declaration has put an end to the discriminatory treatment, which had been the order of the day until the Labor Government was elected - or, to be precise, until the Declaration was made - that had been accorded to people making application to come to Australia on the grounds of the possession of special skills. No longer will their applications have to be sent to Canberra for processing. They can now bc processed in the city or country of application, as is the case with the 17 countries of Europe which were affected by the visit of the Tregillis mission to those countries. 
The unions, far from being racist, are determined to see that the skilled tradesmen who have not had the advantage of being born in this country and therefore who are not in a position to understand what their rights are under the law, are not exploited. For that reason they have insisted on the provisions of the Tradesmen's Rights Regulation Act, an Act which was passed by this Parliament in 1947, being carried out and solemnly observed by the Government. All we said at Kirribilli was that the law of Australia is going to be implemented and observed. We propose now to send this mission to all of the countries in the South East Asian region and to South America and the Pacific region and have it lay down the criteria which will need to be followed by the resident tradesmen technical advisers in those countries in order that there will be no semblance of discrimination between people wishing to come to Australia from those countries and those who come from other countries. 
Of course the Labor Government, in common with the Governments which preceded it, has laid it down, and very properly so, that people who seek to come to Australia must be able to be assimilated into the Australian culture and be able to fit into the Australian scene. It is for this reason that Australia, together with many other countries in the world, has rejected the constant and persistent pleas of the world organisation to accept some  of  the Albanian refugees who are in a camp outside of Belgrade. We have  not  rejected the Albanians because they are coloured. They are not coloured; they are white. We have rejected them for no other reason than the good enough reason that we were satisfied from past experience that Albanian people of this type  who  are in these circumstances could not possibly be absorbed into the Australian community. In Australia today there is a very heavy demand for metal and electrical tradesmen; so heavy indeed is the demand that we believe it warrants the selection of such tradesmen as migrants. We do not care where the migrants come from. We do  not  care whether they come from South East Asia, South America or Europe, or any other part of the world. Provided they have the necessary skills, we will welcome them to Australia because there is work here waiting for them. Indeed, my Department is not prepared to limit the number who will be admitted to Australia to 35, 45, or 55. The limitation will be determined by the need and the capacity to place them. I would hope that having regard to the urgent need for skilled tradesmen in Australia we can get many more than the 35 originally mentioned. 
My Department is not prepared to release skilled tradesmen to work at Leylands if the work they are going to be called upon to do is work which does not fully utilise the skills which they possess. 
There is no boss between me and my Department; we work as a complete -team.  Always  we are completely as one with each other. There is no friction between me and my Department. I am the Department and the Department is the Minister. What do honourable members opposite think about that? How does that grab them? The reason why car manufacturers cannot get enough labour is the rotten, souldestroying, dehumanising monotony of the kind of work involved in assembly line production. I would like some of the honourable members opposite to work on an assembly line for only three or four hours, not for months or years on end, to discover what a soul destroying job it is. So long as the car manufacturers can get migrants from overseas in rotten, soul destroying conditions they will never bother to do anything about job enrichment. Therefore we are not prepared to allow them to escape their obligations in the way in which they would like. What is happening in Australia is very much the same as happened in the Pittsburg steel works more than 100 years ago. The steel manufacturers of the United States used to bring in boat loads of Yugoslavs until the Yugoslavs rebelled, then boat loads of Greeks until they rebelled and then boat loads of Italians until they would not stand it any more. They were always escaping and dodging their responsibilities as employers. We are not prepared to allow boat loads of people to come into this country to do semi-skilled work when we have 121,000 of our own people idle who can be trained to do this semi-skilled work for which there is such a demand. I say there is absolutely no element- 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. The honourable gentleman who has just resumed his seat - I always seem to think that that is an odd sort of a phrase; anyhow, the gentleman who has just sat down - said that I had no interest at all in the returned soldiers. Anyone who knows me knows how untrue that is. My purpose in asking the honourable member to cut his speech short was to ensure that the returned soldiers got the increased money in their next pay. The Senate is about to end its sitting for the week, and unless we get this Bill through quickly - 
I move: 
That the  Bill  be now read  a  second time. 
This will be an extempore explanation of the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill and for that reason I apologise for the fact that I will not be able to present the Opposition spokesman, who incidentally I notice is not even in the chamber, with a copy of a written speech. I can explain that the Bill deals exclusively with the question of industrial agreements, the making of industrial agreements, the encouragement of the honouring of industrial agreements and the cancellation of industrial agreements. The Government has deliberately excluded from the Bill other matters relating to the Government's program for bringing the Conciliation and Arbitration Act up to date because we want the Opposition to be given every opportunity to understand the Bill and to debate the Bill and to assist us in making a contribution towards a better understanding in this very sensitive and highly complex area of industrial relations. 
-So far as I am concerned the debate will not be gagged. Of course, I am not in charge of the House but the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly),  who always adopts a very reasonable attitude provided that time permits, has never been unreasonable in the time that he has given. But if the Opposition tries to stonewall as it has done on previous occasions, the Leader of the House has to take charge of the business of the House and make sure that the Government's program is brought up to date. I talked with the Leader of the House this morning about this matter and he said: 'Yes, if the Opposition adopts a reasonable attitude towards this matter and does not try to make Party political capital out of a matter which is non-partisan in character, then of course I shall allow the Opposition to have the full opportunity it needs to debate this matter in Committee.' So I am pleased to be able to make that announcement to the House. I hope that this Bill will be debated in a non-partisan manner. There is no need for us to get all het up about Party politics when we are talking about something that is of vital concern to management and labour alike. Anyone who tries to inject Party politics into a debate on conciliation and arbitration is not doing his country much good. He is not doing management any good at all and he is not doing labour any good. He may feel that he is getting some Party political advantage over the Government or the Opposition, whichever he is opposing, but let me assure him that this country will never remember him as one who contributed something of which that person and those who follow him have any reason to be proud. 
The Bill is essential to meet the trend towards collective bargaining in Australia. When I tell the House that of something like 700 awards and agreements that are operating in Australia in the Federal sphere about 90 per cent of them are direct consequences of agreements of some kind, the House will begin to see how terribly important it is that we should encourage these agreements to be made in an atmosphere of goodwill, free from the impediments that come through the formal proceedings of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission itself. I want to clarify what I have just said about agreements. Even though some of these agreements take the form of consent awards nonetheless in reality they are still agreements. Nowadays not many awards are not consent awards. The honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke),  being a very highly qualified lawyer, is perhaps the only one on the other side of the chamber who understands the significance of what I have said. But perhaps he can help me by explaining later on the difference between a consent award, an agreement and an ordinary award, to my friend from Wakefield  (Mr Kelly). 
The Bill is absolutely essential if we are to inject into this poisoned atmosphere of labour relations in Australia today - of which neither side in some industries have much to be proud - a bit of commonsense and reasonableness. We in this Parliament have to make our contribution. We have to stop injecting a poisonous note into the debates and we have to try to make the Conciliation and Arbitration Act work better than it does. On a matter like this we ought to be reasonable enough to accept the fact that though the Government's program is not entirely in line with everything that the Opposition did when it was in government, and if it can be shown that the program being put forward by the Govern ment is the program which was contained in the Government's printed platform when it went to the electorate, then unless there is a very compelling reason for doing otherwise, the Opposition ought to be democratic enough to say: 'You have a mandate to do it. It is not what we would do. We are not clairvoyants in this question. What you are proposing, though it sounds odd to us, may nonetheless be the answer to the problem that we have.' 
I thank the honourable gentleman for that interjection because I will come to that in a moment. That is terribly important. It is absolutely crucial that parties to an agreement should honour the agreements that they make. Part of the Bill that we are introducing will show how we can get a greater acceptance of agreements once made", and it will show why it is that agreements once made in certain circumstances which I will outline later are not being honoured. We want agreements to be honoured and we are going to explain to the House why there is an urgent need for a certain amendment to the Act in that regard. 
This Bill is absolutely essential to the Government's overall plan to bring about a better climate in industrial relations. This and the proposal which we put last year in 2 Bills, the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill (No. 1) 1973 and the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill (No. 2) 1973, contained provision for the easier amalgamation of unions. How much longer are we going to allow these demarcation disputes to tie up industry simply because the facilities and means do not exist by which 303 unions - inefficient unions, some of them - are able to amalgamate into fewer and more efficient unions. However, I can make only a passing reference to that because this Bill precludes any debate on amalgamation, since the long title of the Bill makes it clear that the Bill is confined to the question of the making, encouragement, cancellation and honouring of agreements. 
This represents the third time that some of the clauses contained in the Bill now before the Parliament have been put to the Parliament by me on behalf of the Government. On one of the previous occasions the Bill was rejected by the Senate, unfortunately without there being even a Committee stage debate. On the second occasion some sections of the 
Conciliation and Arbitration Bill (No. 2) 1973 were rejected without a real understanding of why the amendments sought were so absolutely essential. I have been so sincere about this matter that I have taken into my confidence the spokesman on these matters for the Australian Country Party, the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon).  I have explained to him what it is we are trying to do. I have put all my cards on the table. I have allowed him to travel with me over a journey of my own experience in the trade union movement. I have shared with him the lessons that I have learned from my own personal experience and there are not very many members in this Parliament who can claim to have the same experience in the field of industrial relations as I have. I have an experience in trade union activity and in labour relations that is almost without parallel in this Parliament and I am sincere in saying that what I am putting here is in my considered opinion quite crucial if we are, to use a term I use repeatedly, to pull ourselves out of the tail spin that we have now got ourselves into. 
We want to encourage agreements by cutting out the delays that occur by the settlement of disputes through the formal machinery of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission itself. However, we cannot under the Act - the Act could not give us the power, because the Constitution would prevent that - avoid some of the delays that are built into the system by the Constitution. For example, we cannot settle a dispute unless it is of an interstate character. We cannot settle a dispute unless it is purely industrial in character. We cannot even start talking about a dispute until we have completed the formalities of serving a log of claims. Although we can make an agreement, we cannot register an agreement, which is all we are talking about in this Bill, until certain procedures have been followed. People can do what they like outside the Act, but this Bill deals with what one has to do to get an agreement certified because until the agreement is certified in accordance with the terms of the Act the agreement does not assume the authority of an award and it cannot be used as the basis for prosecution or enforcement. However, an agreement cannot be made in circumstances that would preclude the Commission from making an award. So since the High Court of Australia has said that the Commission cannot make an award unless there is first a log of claims served and cannot make an award in respect of a matter of an intra-state character or that contains matters or deals with matters that impinge upon managerial prerogative, then you cannot under the law, under the Constitution itself, under the Act or even under my Bill, certify an agreement that touches upon matters that cannot be dealt with by the Commission. So the Bill contains that safeguard. 
I will point out later why what I am saying is of importance. Perhaps I can come to this matter at once. Why it is important to make that qualification is to show the House that any alteration that the House approves for the making of an agreement has to be an alteration that is kept within the confines of what the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission itself can do under the Constitution. That is a terribly important safeguard as well as being a very important and damaging handicap, not only to people who want to get agreements registered; it is also a serious handicap to people who want to use the facilities of the Commission to settle disputes by arbitration. However, it is a handicap that we cannot remove and we have to try to live with it. 
One of the amendments which I put forward last year and which was rejected by the Opposition I will concede was an amendment that was imperfect. I do not think it merited complete rejection, which turned out to be its fate. However, it did merit some refinement. The amendment which I put last year was in line with my Party's platform, namely, that once an agreement reached its date of termination, it automatically expired on that date. For the wrong reason - the Opposition did not give the reason that I am about to mention - the Opposition rejected the amendment. But the rejection of the amendment was something which brought me to the point of trying to discover a compromise that would enable me to put the proposal again to the Parliament with, I think, every chance of its being accepted. The difficulty about the clause of the Bill that I put last season was that once we include a provision in the Act that decrees that an agreement automatically expires at its termination date, we immediately create at that moment a hiatus which cannot be filled until the agreement is renewed or replaced and during that period of hiatus there is a situation in which at law employees would not be entitled to claim any of their accrued annual leave or sick leave rights or long service leave rights, if long service leave happened to be a feature of the agreement. That of course was not what I intended last year; so now I am submitting the proposal to the Parliament in a different form. I now propose that the agreement shall continue to operate after its termination date until such time as a party to the agreement serves notice on the Registrar of that party's intention to terminate. If a union -wishes to terminate the agreement before the agreement has been replaced by another satisfactory agreement, the risk that the union takes is one with which it will have to live. So by this amendment that I am proposing the great difficulty that exists in the present Act will be overcome. The present Act says that, once an agreement is entered into, that agreement goes on in perpetuity. It can never be cancelled by one party  to  it. It can of course be cancelled by the agreement of all parties and it can be cancelled by order of the Commission. But, short of those 2 situations, once made there is no way of getting out of a registered agreement at the moment. This is one of the reasons why many unions hesitate to enter into agreements of this character which will bind them in perpetuity to the conditions of the first agreement. 
Yes, they do. They have a terminating date, and so does an award have a terminating date. But the Act says that an agreement, once registered, has the full force and effect of an award. Then the Act goes on to say in a later part that an award shall continue to operate until it is cancelled by the Commission or replaced by another award, which means that the same thing occurs in the case of agreements. That is one of the big impediments in the way of making agreements. The Bill that I am presenting will not prevent employers and unions from incorporating an enforcement clause in an agreement. The enforcement clause can nominate the enforcement provisions of the agreement. For instance, there are in existence now some agreements which actually carry their own penalties. The agreement says that if there is a dispute involving a stoppage of work of more than 6 hours in any one week the employer may impose a penalty equal to 10 per cent of the wages of all his employees or of all the employees affected by the agreement. He does not have to go to the court. He does not have to lay an information. He simply takes the 10 per cent fine out of the pay envelope himself at the end of the week because the agreement authorises him to do it. 
The Government is not seeking to prevent agreements containing provisions of this kind. If the parties to the agreement care to enter into that kind of agreement, well and good. That is their business. However, what the Government says is that if one wants to have this kind of bargaining accepted one has to make it perfectly clear that what is being prohibited is a strike against the settlement terms that are dealt with specifically in the agreement. The unions that have entered into these kinds of agreements are simply saying: 'We undertake that we will not repudiate the agreement insofar as it relates to the things contained in the agreement.' But under the Act as it now stands the employer can say: 'That is what you might have meant when you agreed to that, but since then we have found that you have gone on strike for an annual leave loading. It is true that annual leave loading is not mentioned in the agreement. It is true that it is an entirely different matter from any of those that your agreement determined, but nonetheless you have agreed that if you stop for any reason at all you will be subject to the penalty.' People will not agree to enforcement provisions if by so doing the whole spectrum of the agreement will be opened up, as being subject to penalties. 
Yes. I am obliged to the honourable member for that interjection because that is the more common form of enforcement provisions that one sees in agreements today. There may be, for instance, a clause which says that the parties to the agreement undertake that there shall not be on the part of the employees any stoppage of work except in the case of safety measures - which have always been excluded - unless in the first instance the shop steward has been to the foreman and sought a settlement from him. If they fail to reach a settlement at that level the employees are obliged to refer the matter to their branch secretary who is obliged in turn to discuss the matter with the managing director, manager, general manager or whoever is nominated in the agreement. I have given the example of a 2-tier system of settlement. There could be a 3-tier or 4-tier system of negotiations that must be completed before employees can ultimately go on strike. But if they break any of those they are in breach of the agreement, and the agreement can nominate what the penalty shall be. 
The Government does not set out to stop that. It is seeking to encourage it by telling people who enter into those sorts of agreements that they are not sticking their heads into a noose which will be tightened on them in respect of a matter which they did not have in mind at the time they made the agreement. They can safely enter into these agreements from now on and they will be applied only to the matters which were the spirit of the agreement. The Australian Council of Trade Unions does not encourage the making of agreements of this kind. On the contrary, the ACTU will go so far as to say that, as an organisation, it will never make an agreement containing such an enforcement provision. Any agreement made under the auspices of the ACTU shall be an agreement without such provisions. But the Australian Labor Party has never turned its back on the making of these agreements. It says that that is a matter' for the parties concerned. The Government wants the Act to be amended so that this great experimentation in collective bargaining can be given a fair chance of success. 
Indeed, a motion was put directly to the Australian Labor Party Federal Executive in Townsville a couple of years ago. It sought to direct a future Labor government to legislate against these kinds of provisions, and it was rejected. So I have the positive support of the decision of the Federal Executive of my Party when I say that my Government has no objection to the parties voluntarily entering into them. 
No. The honourable member has got me wrong. I went too far. I said: 'We do not mind even if the Act contains a penalty that will apply automatically when there is a breach of agreement.' Members of my Party rejected that. I was told not to go too far on this. I was trying too hard. They said that it would not work, and I had to concede that they were right. But this proposal will work if it is given a fair chance. Let me read from the official platform of the Australian Labor Party about the agreements. It says: 
Good industrial relations will be best achieved by agreements initially arrived at between trade unions and employers. 
It is fundamental to a successful system of collective bargaining that voluntary agreements, freely negotiated, be honoured by the parties thereto. 
Those 2 paragraphs were written into the platform of the Party on my recommendations. I wish time would permit me to deal with further aspects of the platform, but unfortunately it will not. 
The Government wants the Commission to be in the position that it will not interfere with or stand in the way of the registration of these agreements unless it is satisfied that a major detriment to public interest would result. After all, let us face the realities of the situation. If there is a dispute which is finally settled by an agreement between the parties to the dispute, unless there is some major detriment to the public interest arising from that dispute the Commission ought to keep out of it. Otherwise what would happen? You would disallow an agreement that was reached in order to settle a dispute and you would immediately, as a consequence of that, re-create the dispute. That is axiomatic. It follows that that is what would happen. 
The only issues on which we say the Commission ought to step in are where it can be shown that included in the agreement are matters that relate to such fundamental issues of industrial relations as the female minimum wage or the female rate of pay. If the Commission were to decide in the national wage case now before it that there ought to be equal pay, completely, it would be a matter of major detriment to the public interest if an agreement were to give less than the Full Bench decided was now proper for female labour. I would say that it would be a major detriment to the public interest for an agreement to include provision for a 20-hour week, to put one side of the coin, or a 50-hour week to put the converse situation. 
Those are the kind of things - tout only those kind of things - which clearly represent a major detriment to the public interest and which the Commission would have the authority to disallow. We would want to allow a single member of the Commission to certify agreements that include matters which are to be dealt with under the jurisdiction of the Full Bench but which previously could not be dealt with except by a hearing of the Full 
Bench, which was nonsense really. Where a member of the Commission believes that an agreement contains a matter which would be a major detriment to the public interest he would refer that agreement to the  President  of the Commission who would decide whether, to refer it to the Full Bench. Once that was done the Full Bench would determine it, if the  President  so determined that it should go there; otherwise it would be sent back to the presidential member for settlement. 
I have to end off now because my time has run out, but I will deal more fully with the Bill in the Committee stage if honourable members want more information. The Bill before the Parliament is a genuine desire by the Government to alter the Act in such a way as to make the system work. I plead with the Opposition not to try to take political advantage of it by way of debate or whatever else the Opposition might be tempted to do. Even if members of the Opposition do not agree with all of what the Government has put forward they should at least give the Government credit for having a clear mandate for doing what it seeks to do. 
In view of that mandate there need to be pretty weighty reasons for the Opposition to reject out of hand or emasculate the Bill that is now before the House. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Malcolm  Fraser) adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The net increase in positions created within my Department and authorities for which I am responsible between 2.12.72 and 28.2.74 was 339. 
Of the 339 positions, 320 were in the Third Division and 19 in the Fourth. There were no positions created in the First and Second Divisions. 
The 339 positions were all permanent. 
The annual salary estimate to meet the net increase in positions is $2,588,000. 
A number of events have combined to create the coal shortage that is being experienced in the West Moreton - that is, Ipswich - area to which the honourable gentleman has referred. The area supplies coal to Swanbank power station and to 2 small booster stations which supply power to the whole of southern Queensland. The West Moreton coal fields are the major source of coal production in south eastern Queensland. 
I must confess that I have not read all of the 1,097 pages of transcript so far taken of the case, but I have read most of them. I would have read at least 1,000 pages. 
I do understand it. I am informed by people in a position to know that I am the only Minister for Labour who has ever understood the situation and I am the only one who has ever bothered even to ask for the transcript. But in answer to the question, let me say to the honourable gentleman that instructions given to counsel representing the Australian Minister for Labour were to the effect that the Government believes that quarterly cost of living adjustments ought to be automatically applied to wages each quarter as was the case right up until 1953 so that we could take from wage disputation the element of price movements, leaving the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to determine only what adjustment should be made to wages to compensate for productivity movements. The Government believes that if there is a reintroduction in wage indexation, so that price movements can be taken care of automatically each quarter as they occur, it will reduce the clement of disputation to matters that relate to movements in productivity, changes .in circumstance and technological change. I believe from the case which has so far been put that that is an argument which would be very hard to resist. 
On the question of productivity, perhaps I can tell the House something of the machinery for measuring productivity. In 1954 when the State statisticians were brought under the control of the Commonwealth Statistician, as he was then called, I made a plea to the Government of the day to introduce an index for measuring productivity movements. Nothing has been done since that pica was made except that now the present Government is looking at the question of productivity indexes so that we will be in a position to measure the movement accurately. The Prime Minister has appointed Professor Crisp to conduct an inquiry in depth into the whole question of the indexation of productivity movements and other related matters. We want to have some means of measuring productivity so that there cannot be the disputation between the parties before the Commission that we have seen and are seeing still in the present national wage case. For example, the employers estimate that the movement in productivity is no more than 2.5 per cent.  Mr Jolly,  for the Australian Council of Trade Unions, asserts that the movement in productivity last year was 3.7 per cent. Professor Neville has given yet a different figure. Others have estimated - it can be no more than a guestimate - that the figure would be as high as 4.2 per cent. We want the Commission to be in a position where it will not have to listen to arguments or differing points of view as to what the figure is. The Commonwealth Statistician will be able to tell the Commission the precise figures in relation to productivity in the same way as the Commonwealth Statistician can now precisely state what the movement in the consumer price index is. If that has helped the honourable gentleman, 1 am very pleased. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As the honourable member will know, the industrial accident statistics are estimates compiled in co-operation with the State Labour Departments and the Australian Bureau of Statistics. They are based on State statistics of claims finalised under Workers' Compensation Insurance and on special extractions compiled by the Bureau from data supplied by the States. I expect to be able to let the honourable member have up-to-date estimates shortly. 
Postmaster-General's Department: Creation off Positions (Question No. 123) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) As from 1.1.73 the Country Apprenticeship Scheme was absorbed into the wider provisions of the National Apprenticeship Assistance Scheme (NAAS). 
Final figures are not yet available as to the number of apprentices employed by country employers who secured assistance under NAAS during 1973. However, my Department estimates that the figure will be around 9,000. 
Expenditure under NAAS on payments to country employers in the calendar year 1973 was $ 1.404m, and a further $0.88 lm was paid to apprentices as living-away-from-home allowances. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Final figures will not be available until after 1.10.74 because employers have up to 9 months to lodge claims. However, latest figures show that claims so far approved for 1973 are in respect of 16,010 apprentices for that year.. 
$2.337m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Over the years my Department has published, principally through the Personnel Practice Bulletin, the results of its studies of job satisfaction among various industrial and occupational groups. 
More recently my Department has prepared a number of summaries of research and experiments conducted outside Australia in the fields of job enrichment, job satisfaction and attitudes to work. These studies have been chosen to illustrate practical applications of the redesign of the job or the work environment. This material will soon be available in published form, both in the Personnel Practice Bulletin and in separately published booklets. 
Research is at present being undertaken by my Department into a number of advanced organisational practices adopted by Australian firms, and is looking specifically at the areas of job enrichment and job satisfaction. It is intended that the findings of these studies should be published by my Department in conjunction with the Human Resources Panel of the Productivity Promotion Council of Australia. It is, however, not possible, at this stage, to give a precise date for the completion of these studies and publication of their findings. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The amount expended on advertising by the Commonwealth Employment Service in 1973 was $51,850. 
Advisory Committee on Commonwealth Employment Service Statistics: Report (Question No. 88) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A number of the recommendations contained in the report of the Advisory Committee on Commonwealth Employment Service Statistics have already been implemented. The remainder, many of which may require substantial changes in existing operating procedures and the co-operation of other organisations, including the Australian Bureau of Statistics, arc currently being examined by officers of my Department. Should the adoption of these recommendations be found to be feasible they will be implemented. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Regular monthly information on overtime in Australia is available only in respect of major private factories. The Department of Labour conducts a survey of overtime in such factories each month. The following table shows in both original and seasonally adjusted terms average hours of overtime worked in all such factories for each month of 1973 and an average for the 12 months. 
 The answer to  the  honourable member's question is as follows: 
Preliminary figures released by the Australian Bureau of Statistics indicate that the actual increase during 1973 in the weighted average minimum weekly rates payable to adult males for a full week's work (excluding overtime) as prescribed in Federal awards, determinations and collective agreements was $8.40. This represented an increase of 12.49 per cent. 
The rates for adult females will become available shortly and 1 shall supply the honourable member with them. 
 The answer to  the  honourable member's question is as follows: 

 Mr N. K. Foster has completed his inquiries into certain aspects of the stevedoring industry including the stevedoring operations of the Australian National Line and is finalising preparation of his report. 
 The answer to  the  honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics released by the Australian Bureau of Statistics indicate that the proportion of total wage and salary earners who, at the end of December 1972, were members of a trade union was S3 per cent of persons (58 per cent of males and 43 per cent of females). 
The figures for the end of December 1973 will probably not become available until July 1974. When they do become available, I shall supply the honourable member with them. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Table A below sets out the percentage changes in the Commonwealth Statistician's series on average minimum wage rates for adult males and on average weekly earnings per employed male unit. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Conference agreed that exchanges of labour administration staff among countries with similar problems in the labour field would be helpful. 
, (3) &amp; (4) The Conference was of the view that the roles and functions of labour departments should be related directly to local needs and should not necessarily be based on the wide range of functions and activities of labour departments in industrialised countries. Accordingly, it was left to countries which considered that exchanges of labour administration staff would be helpful to consult and to make necessary arrangements for any such exchanges. Australia will be prepared to co-operate in arrangements of this kind if they are considered helpful by other countries of the South Pacific Region. I might add that approval had been given prior to the Conference for exchange of officers between the Australian and New Zealand Departments of Labour. 
Department of Transport: Increase in Positions  (Question No.  100) 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following extract from the Joint Communique adopted by the Conference refers to the matter raised by the right honourable member: 
There was considerable discussion of developments in industrial relations in the maritime industry and the Conference expressed concern at the effects of some trade union activities in this industry in the Region. The economies of the islands and the welfare of their people depend on reliable shipping facilities at reasonable freight charges. Increases in these charges adversely affected both the cost of imports and the incomes from exports. This in turn affected the efforts of the governments concerned to improve the standard of life of their people and to reduce unemployment. The burden was particularly felt by the poorer sections of the community in the widely scattered islands of the Region. The Conference concluded that there was an urgent need to create greater awareness among international trade union organisations (in particular the International Transport Workers Federation) and among trade union officials in the Region, of the real problems and circumstances of the island communities in order to obtain their co-operation in working towards fair and reasonable conditions for those employed in the maritime services which will be consistent with the economic and social position of the peoples of the Region.' 
There was no specific reference at the Conference to activities of Australian trade unions in this context. 
There have been no consultations with Australian trade unions on this matter. However, I have sent copies of the Joint Communique to the ACTU and to other central organisations of unions and employers. 
There have been contacts with the New Zealand Government on some aspects of conditions of employment in the maritime industry in the South Pacific and I expect that further consultations will take place with the governments of New Zealand and other South Pacific countries on matters in this industry as the need arises. 
Ethiopia: Assistance by Western Australian Doctors  (Question No. 486) 
 Mr Speaker,  I do not propose- (Honourable members interjecting) - 
 Mr Speaker,  1 need complete silence and the kind of respect that is due to a Minister who will be in office for a long time. I rise to say a few words of wisdom about the opposition which we have encountered to the proposal to treat these Bills as urgent. Qf course they are urgent Bills. The health of the people is an urgent matter. It may not be an urgent matter in the eyes of the Opposition, but to the Government it is extremely urgent. 
In reply to the statement that there is not enough time to debate the legislation, let me remind the House that this legislation was put to both Houses of the Parliament before Christmas. It is exactly the same legislation. It was fully debated then. All that needed to be said about it was said then. Moreover, it will be no surprise to anybody in this House when I tell the House that the Opposition has decided already that, no matter what the Government says about the need for ensuring proper health cover for the people of Australia and no matter how long the debate takes place, the Opposition will reject our proposition. Moreover, the Opposition has decided that, no matter how much time is given for the debate, it is going to use its numbers in the Senate to reject the legislation when it comes before that place. Let us be grown up about this matter. Let us not be infantile about it. Let us be realists. Everyone knows that, no matter how long the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  gives for the debate and no matter what is said in support of providing a proper health scheme for the people of Australia, the Country Party and the Liberal Party are going to reject it. So, let us cut out the nonsense and get on with the business of putting the Bills formally to the Parliament and having a vote taken on them. Let the Opposition vote against the legislation, as we know in advance it will, so that we can send it to the Senate where it can be added to the long list of Bills that either have been rejected outright by the Senate or have been so emasculated as to render them inoperative. 
Let us have a look at some of the things that the Senate has done already. It has rejected outright the Electoral Bill which provides that there will be no gerrymandering of the electorates. It has already done that. It has rejected arbitration amendments which would have eradicated the possibility of demarcation disputes occurring. It has rejected the proposals that the Government put to make it possible to encourage the making and the honouring of industrial agreements. It has emasculated the Government's proposal in respect of restrictive trade practices. It has emasculated the Government's proposal in respect of restrictive trade practices. It has emasculated the Bill dealing with the Australian Industry Development Corporation. 
That is a good point,  Sir. This  is a matter regarding the allotment of time, and I repeat that it would not matter if we gave the Opposition a month- 
Let us cut out the cant and all the nonsense we have heard about not having time. The plain facts of the matter are that these Bills all have been fully debated before in this chamber. They have been fully debated in the Senate, and Opposition members have nothing further to add to the very poor contributions that they made in the first round of the proceedings. What the Opposition is terrified of is that if these Bills are gone on with quickly, we might reach the Appropriation Bills or the money Bills before the Opposition has been able to persuade Liberal senators to change their mind about stopping the supply of money. There is nothing that the Liberal Party and the Country Party in this place would hope for more than to get their colleagues in the Senate to change their mind. I put it to the House that the Senate cannot back down over the money Bills without making a complete and utter laughing stock of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  in this place, because if the Liberal senators back down on the supply of money- 
 Which they will not. That is what the honourable gentleman now confidently predicts, but he is hoping that they will. I am saying to him that the Opposition is hoping that if proceedings in this House are delayed long enough some of the Liberal Party senators might get the wind up and decide to change their mind. Acting under the guise of voting according to conscience, they will then let the money supply come through. Why is it that the Australian Country Party, in particular, and the Liberal Party are so terrified of an election? The reason is that they know that the people of Australia do not relish the propect of having to pay an enormous increase in the price of petrol. They will certainly have to pay an enormous increase in the price of petrol because the Leader of the Australian Country Party is totally committed to the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd to increase the price of fuel oil. They know that the people of Australia will not relish the prospect of massive unemployment, which happened to be the only cure that the Liberal-Country Party Government of 1972 could advance in dealing with inflation. They know that the Australian people will not like that. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Persons appointed from Australia during 1973 to undertake overseas assignments as experts with United Nations Agencies numbered 83, and 433 were appointed to projects of a foreign aid type. 
GrossNational Product: WagesComponent (Question No. 93) 
 If it is assumed that the term 'wages component of the Gross National Product' refers to the Commonwealth Statistician's concept 'Wages, Salaries and Supplements', then the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows. 
(a) Wages, Salaries and Supplements for 1972-73 were estimated by the Australian Bureau of Statistics to be $22,518m. 
Wages, Salaries and Supplements as a percentage of Gross Domestic Product at factor cost for 1972-73 was 61.3 per cent. The aggregate previously described as Gross National Product in the Australian National Accounts is now named . Gross Domestic Product in accordance with international recommendations. 
Estimates for the whole of 1973-74 are not available. Wages, Salaries and Supplements (seasonally adjusted) for the first 2 quarters of 1973-74 were estimated to be 813,054m. This figure represented 61.1 per cent of Gross Domestic Product at factor cost for the same period. 
Department of the Capital Territory: Increases inPositions  (Question No.111) 
We have all heard the sage saying: 'Never try to teach your grandmother how to suck eggs'. The honourable member should not try to teach me how to handle legislation dealing with the trade union movement. The day that the honourable gentleman can tell me anything about the trade union movement and what trade union secretaries are thinking will be the day that I am prepared to do anything at all that will make me look as silly as he is. It is quite ridiculous for the honourable gentleman to say that all over Australia trade union officials are in opposition to what I have proposed in the legislation. I think the honourable gentleman ought to be told that this legislation contains the planks of the Labor Party industrial relations platform which was unanimously recommended to the Labor Party's federal conference in 1973 by the Party's Federal Executive Policy Committee which consisted of  Mr Bob  Hawke,  Mr Ray  Gietzelt,  Mr Jack  Egerton,  Mr John  Ducker and, as he then was,  Mr Barney  Williams of the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations. 
I do not know whether it is contrary to ACTU policy. I suspect that it is not, but whether it is or not I tell the honourable gentlemen that where there is a conflict between ACTU policy and Labor Party policy, Labor Party policy always prevails under a Labor government. I tell the honourable gentleman also that I do not believe he knows what all the trade union officials all over Australia - to use his own words - think about this matter because I doubt whether he has spoken to all the trade union officials all over Australia and therefore he is only guessing. I assure the honourable gentleman .that industrial peace rests fairly and squarely upon what the rank and file members of the trade union movement think. My legislation was designed to ensure that when agreements which sought to bind the rank and file of the trade union movement were reached- 
It is true that I put to Cabinet fairly early last year, I think, a proposition for the establishment of a local initiative employment program. Quite a lot of opposition to the proposal came from some members of the Australian Country Party. They said that the provision of employment to unemployed people in certain country towns would make it more difficult for employers to meet their labour needs. The Country Party members said they felt that the Government ought not to make employment available in country areas where employers were already having difficulty in meeting their labour needs. So, according to the Country Party's philosophy, what should be done is to keep everybody out of work in the country areas so that the employers in those areas can get their labour under any conditions that they like. 
My honourable friend from Robertson mentions the case of the cotton pickers at Wee Waa, and one could mention many other similar examples. I went to the Cabinet - disregarding, as I thought I ought to, the employment needs of employers in country areas - and recommended a scheme for giving quite substantial assistance in some 31 named areas in country regions. The Cabinet expressed the view that the unemployment situation in Australia was improving at such a rapid rate that it would be premature for the Cabinet to rush in and to establish local initiative employment schemes in those 31 centres. The Cabinet prediction turned out to be correct. Shortly after that time, the 31 distressed areas were reduced to fewer than 20 areas. Today the number of distressed areas has fallen to fewer than ten and is improving all the time, to the point where I am convinced that it will not be necessary perhaps to introduce the special employment programs in any more than four or five, or at the most seven, regions in the whole of the Commonwealth. This is a direct result of the Government's full employment policy and, therefore, represents one of the greatest triumphs of which this Government can boast. The Government has converted a country that was suffering from massive unemployment into a country that now has available 5,000 more jobs than there are unemployed persons to fill them. 
Reports have been published in the Press and were broadcast over the radio this morning that there is a threatened stoppage of work involving members of the Federal Transport Workers Union in all of the ports servicing the domestic airlines - Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia. The dispute has its origin in a demarcation argument between the Federal Transport Workers Union and the Transport Workers Union of New South Wales, which flows directly from the decision of the Commonwealth Industrial Court, now called the Australian Industrial Court, in the well known case of Moore v. Doyle. In that case the Court held that the Transport Workers Union of New South Wales was no longer or never had been a State branch of the Federal Transport Workers Union but by virtue of its registration in the New South Wales Industrial Commission had a legal personality all of its own and a corporate status which was distinct from that of what had been thought to be its parent body. Employees of Qantas Airways Ltd who are members of the State union and insist upon remaining in that union are refusing to belong to the Federal union. 
There are reports that the Federal union is planning to retaliate by stopping its members servicing the domestic nights in all the capital cities other than Sydney. I have talked with the Federal Secretary of the Transport Workers Union. I have informed him of the steps which 1 have taken to overcome the problems arising from the Moore v. Doyle case. I told him, for example, that I have set up a special committee of inquiry headed by  Mr Justice  Sweeney, assisted by  Mr McGarvie  Q.C., to advise the Government on what is needed. 
The employment figures as at March 1974 reveal that the number of vacant jobs now exceeds the number of people who are registered as unemployed by 5,000. For the same period - March 1972  -  the number of unemployed people exceeded the number of vacant jobs by more than 68,000. But, as the honourable gentleman points out, this is not the only measure of the country's extraordinary degree of prosperity. For the year ended December 1973 there was an enormous growth rate in the total work force, so much so that there was an increase of 215,700 jobs over the number for the previous 12 months. For 1972 - the last year for which the Leader of the Opposition was the Treasurer - the increase in the number of jobs was only 87,400. 
Yes. I am obliged to the honourable gentleman for that. For the year ended December 1971 the increase in the number of jobs - that is, the number of people in the work force - was only 42,500. So we can see that over a period from 1971 to 1973 the number of additional people employed increased from the -rate of 42,000 a year to 215,000 a year. The more pleasing feature of these figures is that which reveals the extent of the participation of married women in the work force. 
-It is critical; I agree with the right honourable gentleman. How does it compare? In 1971, when the right honourable gentleman was the Prime 
Minister, only 20,100 more jobs were made available to women. During last year when the Honourable E. G. Whitlam was the Prime Minister, 129,000 extra jobs were made available to women. I will repeat the figures: Under the Whitlam Government, in 1973, 129,000 extra jobs were made available to women, while under the McMahon Government in 1971 only 20,000 extra jobs were made available to women. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Joint Communique issued by the Conference contained the following: 
The Conference considered that development of labour policies and their application should be given an important status and adequate financial resources and staff with the necessary qualifications and expertise should be provided. This would involve training such staff and the Australian and New Zealand Governments indicated that they were prepared to assist in this regard.' 
, (3) and (4) Assistance in training labour administrators in Australia is already available under SPAP (South Pacific Aid Programme), CPTS (Commonwealth Practical Training Scheme) in the case of Papua New Guinea, and under ILO Fellowships. 
Further consultations, including with New Zealand, will be necessary to determine whether additional facilities are required. The right honourable member will be aware from paragraph15 of the Joint Communique that consideration was to be given to holding a seminar in a country of the region, with the cooperation of the International Institute for Labour Studies, which, inter alia, would help to elucidate the fields where training and other projects in the labour field are needed in the South Pacific. I can now inform him that the Australian Government will be meeting the cost of this Seminar which is expected to be held in Suva later this year. 
Government Accommodation: WaitingLists  (Question No.  381) 
I did write a letter to the Treasurer about my views on fiscal and monetary policies. I do not have it in front of me but one paragraph I remember very well was a passionate plea that the Treasurer ought not to follow policies that would get this Government into the same sorry mess as the McMahon Government got into and into the same sorry mess as a future Liberal and Country Party government would get into, when its only policy for dealing with inflation is massive unemployment. 
No, I was not aware of the alleged statement made by the Minister in New South Wales. As to whether I will discuss the alleged complaint with the Minister for Local Government in New South 
Wales the answer is no, I will not. This is a matter for my colleague, the Minister for Transport, not for me. 
This matter was brought to my notice by 2 honourable members from Brisbane - the honourable member for Brisbane and the honourable member who has just asked the question. Early .this morning they came to see me about this matter. I was able to make inquiries. I am waiting for the final result but I am assured that the migrants concerned would have b;en specially selected to do skilled work for which there were plenty of vacancies. They will therefore not affect other people's work. 
The right honourable gentleman will be glad to know that as recently as a fortnight ago the Prime Minister and I talked about this question of unemployment in certain regions. We do not concentrate just on country areas but on certain regions whether they be Hobart, Launceston or Ballarat. We are concerned about the matter and we are currently examining it. If We are satisfied that a case exists for a special local initiative program to be introduced to mop up unemployment in special pockets of distress of course we will do it. 
I have received information from some of the unions involved. The Professional Musicians Union did take umbrage at some of the alleged remarks made by  Mr Frank  Sinatra about female journalists. If the remarks were correctly ascribed to him then I can understand the union's being upset by them. There is a great deal of concern also, I think, in relation to the alleged thuggery that occurred at one of the concerts. I am asking for a report on this incident. I personally would like it to be placed on record that I have a very high regard for Frank Sinatra. We are both very much of the same age. 1 enjoyed listening to his crooning when I was a boy. According to the photographs taken yesterday of him sprinting across the aerodrome, his arthritis is not quite as bad as mine. The only other difference between us is that most people call me Old Grey Eyes. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill is very simple. It is to extend the operation of the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act 1967- 1973 for a period of 2 years. The Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act was enacted in 1967 to give legislative effect to the agreement entered into by the National Stevedoring Industry Conference which was set up by the previous Government under the chairmanship of  Mr A.  E. Woodward, Q.C., as he then was, with the object of achieving longterm improvement of conditions in the stevedoring industry. The principal features of the National Conference proposals were: A scheme for the permanent employment, on weekly hiring, of waterside workers in major ports; a pension scheme for regular waterside workers; arrangements for coping with anticipated redundancy; new procedures for handling industrial disputes; and disciplinary procedures appropriate to conditions of permanent employment. 
These proposals involved significant changes in the role of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority, whose functions in relation to permanently employed watersiders were to be largely transferred to the stevedoring companies. The necessary enabling legislation was originally introduced for a trial period expiring on 30 June 1970, by which time it was anticipated that legislation providing for permanent arrangements in the industry could be introduced. This temporary legislation has since been extended on 3 occasions. The reason for these successive extensions of the legislation was that at no time was it feasible, in the face of a continued rapid rate of technological change and because of associated financial and redundancy problems, to evolve permanent legislative arrangements for this industry. 
On the last occasion that the legislation was extended I indicated that this Government hoped to be in a position to introduce permanent legislation for the industry prior to 30 June this year. While this was not possible a great deal has been done in the interim to examine possible forms of organisation which might be adopted for the industry, and to obtain the views of the parties concerned. This, in turn, has required an extensive study of the legal and administrative problems which, while at an advanced stage, has not yet been completed. It is therefore proposed that the present temporary legislation be extended for a further period of 2 years. While recommending an extension of the temporary legislation for a further 2 years, it would be my intention to indicate to the Parliament the Government's proposals for the industry well before the expiry of that period. Extending the life of the Act -will not of course preclude the introduction of permanent legislation at an earlier date if this proves feasible. Indeed, an earlier date for permanent legislation is desirable. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Killen)  adjourned. 
My Department did give evidence and expressed some disquiet about what would happen if there was a large scale reduction in motor vehicle output, and I think it was right. 
I present to the House 3 reports, namely, the report of the Australian Interdepartmental Mission to Study Overseas Manpower and Industry Policies and Programs; Australian Labor Market Training, report of the Committee of Inquiry into labor market training; and Manpower Policy in Australia, a report to the Organisations for Economic Cooperation and Development. In tabling these reports I take the opportunity of giving this House- 
I thank the honourable gentleman for that question. There is a falling off of employment opportunities in certain country areas. The Government is concerned. 
We have been aware of this for some little time. There are pockets of bad unemployment in certain regions in Australia, mainly in country areas. We know that. We are currently studying the situation to see what might be considered a desirable way of meeting the situation about which the honourable member talked. In regard to meat works, yes, a number of employees have been put off in meat works because of the falling away of the export meat market. That is true. That is not the Government's fault, of course. We cannot make people buy our meat, and if they decide not to buy the meat then of course it could mean that until such time as the meat growers decide to put their stock on the Australian market for Australian consumers there will be a temporary hiatus which will create some unemployment. In regard to textiles, I may say that some areas of industry do depend to a large extent upon textiles for employment, especially of females, in country areas. However, that situation will be considerably helped by the decisions announced quite recently by the  Deputy  Prime Minister relating to quotas or restrictions upon the importation of textiles and clothing. I believe that at this stage we can say that the situation is well in hand. We are looking at it day by day - almost minute by minute - and I can assure the honourable member that we are not unaware of the problems. 
I offer no objection to the Opposition using normal Opposition tactics to try to score political points from a government. That is what it is paid to do. That is what in fact it is doing. If out of the attack there comes some concrete proposition that will indicate how the Government has failed, what the Government did not do that it should have done or what the Government did that it should not have done, and more importantly what the Opposition would do were it the government, a debate of this kind would be immensely valuable to the Australian people. So far, however, we have not heard a single sentence from the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on what his Party would do if it were in government to deal with industrial unrest and to protect the Australian public from the effects of industrial disruption. 
He talked about the pledge that the Australian Labor Party made in Opposition to use its links with the trade union movement to try to bring about a better industrial climate than was the case under the former Government. It was a very relevant point to make, because there was a lot of industrial unrest in the former Government's reign of office and many more industrial disputes than under our Government. It was in that climate and in that context that we saw a need for something to be done. But what we said in promising to bring about a better industrial climate was that the first essential step towards bringing it about was to bring the Conciliation and Arbitration Act up to date in those vital areas that were responsible for the aggravation of unrest between parties. I mention two of them - the need to facilitate amalgamations of unions so as to obviate the need for the number of demarcation disputes that plague our industrial scene, the need to make and encourage the making of industrial agreements and the need to encourage the observance of industrial agreements. In respect of both those matters the Government acted promptly. In the early half of last year it brought in legislation to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in respect of those 2 matters, and in respect of both of them the Opposition rejected the proposals we put forward. It is not possible for the Government to give effect to its promise unless the Opposition is prepared to allow us to pass the necessary legislation that is required to bring the Conciliation and Arbitration Act up to date. The Opposition cannot blame us for not getting a better industrial climate so long as it allows the Senate to reject the propositions that we keep putting to this Parliament for bringing the Act up to date. 
I know that it is said that we ought to use our industrial liaison with the trade union movement to bring about this better climate but I cannot understand the logic of the honourable member for Wannon. He spent about as much of his time calling upon us to bring about a better understanding with the trade union movement as he did in attacking the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  for attacking  Mr Hawke.  He said that the Prime Minister and  Mr Hawke  disagreed more often than they agreed, yet in the next breath he said that we are lackeys of the trade union movement. I cannot follow the logic or the lack of logic there. 
It is quite true, as the honourable gentleman says, that there has been a sense of responsibility indicated or evinced by the Waterside Workers Federation in Melbourne. I applaud the Waterside Workers Federation for it, and I applaud him for applauding it for what it did, because it is sensible in industrial relations to give credit where credit is due and not always take an institutionalised attitude towards things and simply assume that employers are always wrong or always right, and vice versa in respect of the unions. But what the honourable gentleman should know, and apparently he does not know, is that the reason we are getting this more responsible attitude from the waterside workers is that as a consequence of their last wage negotiations they have now built into the wages clause of their agreement an automatic escalation provision which provides that the wages shall be automatically adjusted to 93 per cent of the average weekly earnings at periods indicated in the agreement. It was only because the leadership was able to remind the rank and file of the waterside workers of the enormous inbuilt advantage this clause would have and point out that they ought therefore wait until the escalation clause was due to come into play, that it was able to get the tranquility on the waterfront in Melbourne which the honourable member very rightly applauded. 
In the time at my disposal I will have to move at once to the question of escalation in wages to deal with movements in prices. In March this year we found that there was a record number of days lost for any month, I think, since the coal strike of 1949. For the purposes of comparison with recent times, more man days were lost then than at any other time for many years. The significant thing about the time lost is that 71.3 per cent of the man days lost were lost in respect of wage disputes centred around price movements. That is the important point that I now want to stress. The figures show that 71.3 per cent of the time lost was due to wage disputes centred around price movements. The honourable member for Wannon said a lot about the attitude of the Government in the national wage case and quite wrongly said that the submission put on behalf of the Government by me or my representative in the national wage case did not have the endorsement of the Government. In point of fact it did. It was specifically endorsed by the Cabinet point by point. It is of no use for the honourable gentleman to blame the national wage case for any of the inflationary trends that now occur, because the national wage case decision was to increase the minimum wage by $8 a week, and both the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  on 3 May went on public record applauding that decision, saying that it was a proper decision. The Leader of the Australian Country Party said that it was a responsible decision and one which he hoped the public generally would follow. 
The only other matter which came out of the national wage case and which had any immediate effect was the decision to extend the minimum wage to adult females. There we had from the honourable member for Wannon, who has just resumed his seat, a public eulogy of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission's decision. I notice that he is nodding his head. 
The Commission's decision was applauded by the honourable member for Wannon. He said that in that respect the Commission's decision conformed to Liberal Party policy. Apart from those 2 things, what did the Commission do that caused inflation? Nothing. 
The only other thing it did was to reserve for later in the year a conference of the principal parties appearing before it in the national wage case to discuss the remaining issue of wage indexation, as it is now called, or automatic quarterly cost of living adjustments, as it is more popularly known. The Government's case to the Commission was that in a period of rapidly rising prices it is unreasonable to expect workers to have to wait for a whole year before they receive anything in their wages to compensate them for the erosion of the value of their wages that is caused by rapidly rising rates of inflation. We argued, therefore, that we ought to follow the lead of the countries of the European Economic Community and introduce a form of automatic cost of living adjustments. I think it would be better if there were automatic cost of living adjustments monthly rather than quarterly, but we lack the machinery that exists in Belgium and France ever to contemplate having a monthly adjustment as there is in those countries. We argued that we ought to revert to the quarterly cost of living adjustments that did so much for industrial relations in the 32 years in which they operated in this country. I believe that the only cure, when there is in existence a situation in which 71.3 per cent of all the disputes in one month revolve around the issue of rising prices, is to have those price movements reflected automatically quarter by quarter. 
Yes, it is part of it. 
I thank the honourable member for Mackellar for that. The other thing of which one needs to be certain if there are to be automatic cost of living adjustments is that the unions will not try to have their cake and eat it too. They should not expect to be able to get quarterly cost of living adjustments to compensate for price movements as they occur each quarter and to be able at the end of the year to make wage demands based upon the price movements for which they have already received automatic adjustments quarterly. They cannot have it both ways. My proposition is that the unions should be prepared to give a firm undertaking that, in return for automatic quarterly cost of living adjustments to the wages of their members to compensate them for price movements as they occur each quarter, they will desist from making claims for wage increases based upon price movements for which they have already received compensation. I would not be prepared just to say 'Yes, we will undertake to do it' and then give a quarterly cost of living adjustment under every award. I do not think that a consensus of opinion will arise from the conference which has been convened by  Mr Justice  Moore and which has now been brought forward to August because I think that the employers have taken up a fixed position against quarterly cost of living adjustments and I do not believe that the unions are prepared to give the kind of undertaking that I think would be needed for quarterly cost of living adjustments to be introduced across the board. Therefore, I would propose that the Commission ought not to make automatic cost of living adjustments applicable to every award but ought to make the granting of quarterly cost of living adjustments conditional upon the applicant, which would mostly or perhaps invariably be a union, giving such an undertaking at the time application is made to incorporate automatic adjustment provisions into an award. An assurance like that would be taken as the complete pay-off for price movements for a stipulated period of time. 
It would be policed in the same way as was done in the national wage case of 1973 when, in return for a $9 a week increase in the minimum wage, the Government asked that the Commission write into every award a stipulation that the new minimum wage would not be the basis for overtime payments but that where the award rate was less than the minimum wage the overtime payments would be based upon the award rate. To the eternal credit of the unions, we have to say that they have accepted that and that there has not been one dispute since then over the basis upon which overtime should be paid. Since even now we have an average overtime rate of 3.7 hours per week per person, the fact that there has never been a dispute over the basis upon which overtime should be paid indicates that it can be done. 
I make my position perfectly clear: If a union repudiated an undertaking that was required to he given in order to have the indexation clause incorporated into an award, I would ask the Commission to take it out again. I believe that the rank and file members of the work force have a healthy enough appreciation of the benefits of quarterly cost of living adjustments to want to keep them and I believe that, if there were any irresponsible attempt either at the factory floor level or in any other part of the union's mechanism to try to take away from them the enormous benefits of automatic cost of living adjustments, common sense would prevail and they would insist upon the undertaking being observed. I wish that more time was available for me to expound more fully on what I have stated today. 
I do not agree with the last part. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 

 - Mr Chairman, I am sorry that I cannot accept the proposed change in date. Now, 1 April is April Fools Day. I think that date was deliberately put in the amendment to test the Government to see how foolish we really are. Well, we are not quite so foolish as all that. For that reason, and for many other reasons, we cannot accept such an odd date. It is the aim of the Government to introduce permanency in the stevedoring industry as quickly as possible. We will do that before April Fools Day if we are able to do it physically. That is the aim of the Government. We will not be helped or hurried to reach a sensible conclusion of these negotiations by simply writing into an Act of this Parliament that it be all fixed up by April Fools Day. I can assure the honourable member, if it is any satisfaction to him, that we will continue to bring the thing to a sensible conclusion. I wish Standing Orders would let me comment on what honourable gentlemen have said about the control of the stevedoring companies by the overseas shipping companies. I can get this much out without involving you,  Mr Chairman:  I agree entirely with what the honourable gentlemen have said in that regard. I regret that the Government cannot accept the amendments. 
Question put: 
That the amendments  (Mr Malcolm Fraser's)  be agree'd to. 
My answer to the last part of the question is, I do not know. 
 I simply do not know. The honourable member is asking me whether it will have any influence on the unions. My answer again is I do not know. 
Perkins has been deliberately setting out to bring about a confrontation with the unions. He has had the active support of the honourable member for the Northern Territory in this. I have had telegrams from the honourable member which clearly indicate that he is in a conspiracy with these people. 
Once again we have had this weekly dissertation from the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  He does not, however, offer any solution. He just keeps talking about the troubles as he sees them. Not once in the whole of his talk today and not once in a similar talk by him last week did he devote one syllable of his contribution to telling us what those on his side of the House would do were they ever in government. The reason he did not do that is because he cannot do it. The Opposition has not a solution to industrial turmoil. It has never had a solution to industrial turmoil and it never will have one for the simple reason that it does not understand the cause of industrial turmoil. 
The honourable gentleman said that the majority of time lost was lost over wages issues. He does apparently understand that much about industrial disputes. But he did not go on to say what solution he would offer since the majority of industrial disputes, as he correctly puis it, are over wages issues. Having identified what causes the majority of disputes, one would have expected him to have gone on and to have told us 'how he would cure those industrial disputes; but not a word. In fact, the only utterances that have ever fallen from his lips that might obliquely approach a possible cure for the number of disputes caused by wage demands came when he said that he disagreed utterly with wage indexation. In point of fact, if one is going to settle the majority of industrial disputes caused by wages issues, one has to face the fact that wage disputes will continue to occur so long as one ignores the cause of dissension and the cause of the pressures which are building up on the factory floor in respect of wages. The causes are simple enough. All of us know what the causes are. They are the continual rise in prices and the absence of adequate machinery to give automatic effect, by way of wage adjustments, to the provision of compensation for those rises. 
That is why the Government advocated in the national wage case the reintroduction of automatic quarterly cost of living wage adjustments to compensate for those price movements. Until that happens one can expect unions not only to demand wage increases to cover prospective movements in prices, also to .seek, hopefully, to obtain increases to cover prospective movements in prices. With the strength that the unions now have, not only in this country but also in other countries of the world, as measured against the power of capital to resist those demands, the sellers of labour are -in the position of living in a buyer's market. There are more people wanting to buy labour than there are people wanting to sell it. That is another fact of industrial life that the honourable member for Wannon will have to face up to. In the power game that is played inside industrial relations all over the world the trade unions are calling the tune, and they are going to go on calling it. So we will have to come to accept either quarterly cost of living wage adjustments, whereby wages are adjusted automatically every quarter, or a continuation of the present system under which the strong unions especially will not only demand wage increases at regular intervals to take care of price movements that have occurred retrospectively but also will have the industrial muscle necessary to anticipate prospective prices movements and get them. 
I want to see the reintroduction of the automatic quarterly cost of living adjustments system that operated so well in Australia for more than 30 years under which adjustments were made automatically to compensate for the erosion of wages. One just cannot expect the .people who sell their labour to bear the cost and the disadvantage that comes from the erosion of the value of their wages. Those are elementary things that the honourable member for Wannon will have to recognise first of all before he can claim to be an expert on industrial relations. I will say again, as I have often said in this Parliament and out of it, that although the honourable gentleman has a few blind spots - the one that I am now discussing happens to be one of them - generally speaking and curiously enough for a man who was educated at Melbourne Grammar and finished up in Oxford, a man who has had all the advantages of being the only son of one of the richest squatters in the Western Districts of Victoria, he does seem to know more than any of the other honourable members on the other side of the House about labour relations. That does not necessarily mean that he is terribly good on the subject. It just indicates how much or how little they know. 
I must say that when the honourable gentleman talks about the number of man days lost in March I have to agree with him. It was, if not an all time record, a record for very many years. It came about because of the factors to which I have just referred, that is, because March represented the end of the agreement which was made between the metal unions and the Metal Trades Industry Association of Australia last year. There being no automatic arrangements to compensate for wage erosion due to price movements, there remained only one way in which the unions could obtain compensation for what had occurred and for anticipated movements in the future, and that was by strike action. That is what they did. I do not dispute the number of man days lost as indicated by the honourable member for Wannon. The honourable member said that the number of man days lost was 2 million. I do not know whether that is right or wrong. In saying that I did not dispute it, I did not want it to be understood that I agreed with what he said; but the number of man days lost was a lot. 
No, 2 million man days were not lost in the metal trades alone. Perhaps 2 million man days were lost right throughout Australia. 
As I have said, I cannot verify the figures, but I know enough about the figures to know that the number of man days lost was too high and that the number of man days lost in April also was too high. In that instance 980,000 man days were lost. 
Yes, I would. Thank you very much. What the honourable gentleman always conveniently overlooks and what everybody else who criticises the amount of time lost through strikes overlooks is that when the Labor Government came to office the number of people registered as unemployed, translated into the number of man days lost to the production of the country, represented no less than 51 million man days per annum. The honourable member can complain, as he has every right to, about the fact that more than 2 million man days were lost in one month, which was the worst month, but he has to remember that when he and his colleagues banded over the running of the economy to the Labor Government the area of unemployment was so high that it represented in lost productivity the equivalent of 1 million man days a week. 
The honourable member for Mackellar should not refer to a Minister as 'Clyde', even though the Minister used to be a shearer, unlike the honourable member. When we are in the House we try to observe the niceties. The honourable member for Wannon talked about productivity falling. In that respect he was able to do something that nobody else has been able to do, that is, to give us a precise outline of the fall in productivity quarter by quarter. I wish he would tell the Commonwealth Statistician how he did it because the Commonwealth Statistician does not know how to produce the figures that the honourable member has just produced. 
That may be. That is where the honourable member for Wannon has an advantage over the Commonwealth Statistician. The Commonwealth Statistician has informed me that he will not be able to give me precise figures on productivity movements before February 1975 and that then they will be very rough and ready figures, but the honourable member for Wannon has risen in his place and blandly told the House that there has been a fall in productivity. In point of fact the production of some of the things that are in short supply in the white goods, which is another way of describing cookers, washing machines, refrigerators and clothes dryers, went up by 23 per cent last year. In the case of clothes dryers production went up by 61 per cent. So productivity has in fact increased considerably in many areas. In the case of the coal miners I should say that the output of the coal mining industry per man is now more than double what it was a little more than 10 years ago. The same is true of the other people who, I think, the honourable member generally euologises, that is, the waterside workers. Their output in the handling of freight is very much higher than ever before. It is true that a lot of the disputes are caused by amalgamation or demarcation arguments, but those arguments would be overcome if we were to adopt the Bill I propose to reintroduce tomorrow. That seeks to make for easier amalgamation so that we will not have 303 different unions covering the work force but will have a very much smaller number than we now have. Industrial agreements have been referred to. The honourable member for Wannon will have another opportunity of looking at that legislation also tomorrow. I will be bringing in a Bill which will be in exactly the same terms as the one introduced earlier in the year. He will be able to read out the speech that  Mr Derham  and  Col Polites  wrote for him last year and which, because of the dissolution of the Parliament, time did not permit him to read. 
The honourable member once asked me whether I knew  Mr Derham  and said that he had found him to be one of the most knowledgeable people on industrial relations; so I assume that the honourable member knows him. 
The Government will be taking an active part in the conference which is to be held on 7 and 8 August by  Mr Justice  Moore. We will be putting to the Moore conference that the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission ought to reintroduce quarterly cost of living adjustments and that in return the unions ought to give the undertaking that once automatic quarterly cost of living wage adjustments are reintroduced they will not include in any wage demands from then on any element that is related to the movement in prices. This will restrict the rest of the elements that will be taken into account to things like movements in productivity, changed circumstances, changes in skills and anomalies that may emerge, as they do from time to time as technological changes occur. If we can persuade the unions to undertake to eliminate from their future wage demands any element relating to movements in prices then we will have got rid of the major number of industrial disputes. As the honourable gentleman very rightly said, the greatest number of industrial disputes are due to demands over wages. Eliminate those, and what is left can be handled through the machinery of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission much more easily than is now possible with wages going the way they are. 
Nothing will be achieved by trying to hold back the system of wage indexation that I am talking about. The big unions will go on demanding wage increases to cover not only retrospective movements but also prospective movements. Once a year the weak unions will pick up a small amount in the national wage case, but that will be infinitesimal compared with what the bigger unions will obtain under the system operating at present. It is no use talking about adopting a system under which the Commission in the national wage case will give to unions only the difference between the amount that it considers is justifiable and the amount which the unions have already received in the intervening 12 months. That is called absorption. It was tried in 1967 and the Commission had to reassemble in 1968 to rescind its decision regarding absorption in respect of amounts given at the national wage level. It will not work. We ought to remember the lessons of 1967 and 1968. If the honourable gentleman does not know.Colin Polites I think that he knows his father, George Polites. He ought to ask him whether he thinks absorption will work. 
I will certainly be very glad to have my Department investigate this matter. 
I do not know. I do not know how far the honourable member is involved in it. The Peko mines have been sending material through Port Augusta for a long time. They are now contemplating sending their ore by road transport or by rail transport. I think that there is enough ore to be trans-shipped through Port Augusta to keep the port going until about Christmas time. The honourable member will be pleased to know that even if the port is closed it is almost certain that we will need to transfer the waterside workers who would lose their jobs at Port Augusta, to Whyalla where there is still a shortage of waterside labour. In answer to the first part of the question, of course I will be very happy to have my Department investigate this matter and I will give the honourable gentleman a written reply. He has talked to me about this on several occasions and I know that he is deeply concerned about the future of the port, as I am myself. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This is a Bill to make it easier for industrial organisations to amalgamate into larger and more efficient organisations than are now possible. The Bill represents in broad form the proposition which I introduced into the Parliament early last year and reintroduced later in the year and which on both occasions were rejected by the Senate. I think it is a great tragedy for industrial relations in Australia that the Senate rejected those proposals last year. 
I welcome to the Parliament the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee),  who does not seem to be even listening to what I have to say, because he is a gentlemen who has had a long association with employeremployee relations. He understands industrial relations exceptionally well. I suppose that, apart from the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who is now sitting at the table, he would be the best informed member of the Opposition on labour relations. I am sure that he will tell his colleagues on the Opposition side that one of the great troubles in Australia today is that we have too many small and inefficient trade unions. We should have fewer of them. We should have more efficient ones, ones that are able to represent their members in a more meaningful way than is possible with the work force divided among 303 separate organisations. Most of our demarcation disputes can be traced to the difficulties that at present exist under the law in bringing about amalgamations. 
I will not go through the Bill with a fine toothcomb because the argument for easier amalgamations have already been canvassed twice before in the Parliament, but I ask that the members of the Opposition parties here use their influence, if they have any, with their Senate colleagues to ensure that the Bill goes through the Senate this time. In broad terms, the Bill provides that an amalgamation can be brought about by the committee of management of each organisation concerned being required to resolve upon the proposed amalgamation and to accept a scheme of amalgamation. Publication of the proposed amalgamation in the Press and in the journals of the organisation concerned will be required. The scheme of amalgamation will have to be filed with the Industrial Registrar. Other existing procedures in relation to the registration of organisations and the alteration of rules of existing organisations will then apply, and in regard to these matters objections can be lodged on specified grounds. The Registrar will then be required to conduct a hearing and to determine the objections raised. 
Provision will be made that before an amalgamation can be finally registered there will need to be a ballot of all the members of both organisations or, if there are more than 2 organisations, of all of the organisations involved; but it will not be necessary to hold up an amalgamation merely because less than 50 per cent of the members eligible to vote failed to do so. The Act will require that every member of every organisation affected by the amalgamation shall be supplied with a ballot paper and given the right to vote. It will be up to him to decide whether he exercises the right. But those who choose to exercise the right to vote will be able to decide by a majority of their number whether the registration of the amalgamation is to be consummated. 
The other new provision that I have introduced into the Bill is that in the case of one organisation wishing to amalgamate with another and the management committee of the other organisation unreasonably refusing to allow its members to have a say in whether the amalgamation should be entertained, by a petition from 20 per cent of the members of the second organisation to the Registrar for an officially conducted ballot on the subject, which will take the form of a plebiscite, the members of the second organisation will be able to have a say over the heads of their management committee on the question of whether their organisation ought to accept the amalgamation offer of the first union. The cost of these ballots or plebiscites will be borne by the Government. That is the provision that already exists in the law. The only exception to this provision will be in the case of the amalgamating union having 5 per cent or less members than the host union already has, in which case the host union will have the right to apply to the Registrar to obtain an exemption from the need to hold a plebiscite of its members to determine whether they will accept the amalgamation offered by the amalgamating union. It will be up to the Registrar to determine the question. 
I will give one example of the sort of thing that the Registrar would no doubt take into account. If the Shipwrights Union, with less than 5 per cent of the total membership of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union, sought to amalgamate with the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union although it would be compulsory for all the members of the Shipwrights Union to be given the opportunity to vote, the Registrar would be able to say, upon application from the AMWU, that he considered that the sort of work that the shipwrights were doing was so similar to and so much like the work that the AMWU members were doing that there was no need to have a ballot of the members of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union. But if the Nurses Federation, with a membership of less than 5,000, decided to amalgamate with the AMWU, I would think that the Registrar would say to the AMWU, if it sought to be exempt from the provisions of the Act requiring that a plebiscite of members be held: The work that nurses do is so dissimilar from the work that boiler makers and other members of the AMWU usually perform that it would seem to me incongruous that your members should have to accept an association with nurses except by a decision of the members at a plebiscite.' 
I will not delay the House any longer on this matter. I will wait until the conclusion of the debate when I will reply to any points which might be raised and which are worth replying to. I hope that the Opposition will give the Bill a speedy passage so that it can go to the Senate and become the first leg of a double dissolution, if necessary. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Malcolm  Fraser) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the  Bill  be now read a second time. 
This Bill is in terms identical to those of the Bill that I introduced into this Parliament earlier this year. It has not been altered at all. The speech which the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  prepared for that earlier debate, I have no doubt, he will proceed to read in this debate. The honourable member did say in the course of another discussion that I had with him some time ago that this Bill did not have the approval of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. Well, the presentation of this Bill ought to be the best way, I think, of making my point that the ACTU does not control the Australian Labor Party or the Labor Government. The Australian Government supports the ACTU when it is right. If in fact it opposes the legislation now before this House, which I very much doubt, the Bill will go ahead nonetheless. This Bill is in line with the platform of the Australian Labor Party and I believe, notwithstanding the assurances to the contrary which the honourable member for Wannon has given from time to time, that the ACTU supports it too. 
The principal provisions of the Bill are to ensure that when agreements are made between unions and employers they have the endorsement of the rank and file members of the unions concerned in the agreement. After all, an agreement which is made between a union official and an employer does not sell the labour of the union official, but sells the labour of the members of the organisation which the union official represents. If one is fixing the price of somebody else's labour - if that is what the contract is all about - the person whose labour is being bargained for and sold ought to be given a say in whether the price agreed upon is a proper price. 
I take no further time on this Bill. My views and the views of the Government have already been put very well by my good self earlier in the year. Once again I will follow the procedure that I have indicated I will follow with respect to the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill 1974. I will wait to see whether there are any worthwhile points made in opposition to this Bill and if there are, or if I judge them to be worthwhile, I will of course reply to them at the conclusion of the debate. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Malcolm  Fraser) adjourned. 
 I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
80 officers. 
The information is set out in the table below: 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Responsibility for the official collection of information relating to household expenditure is vested with the Australian Bureau of Statistics. On 20.3.73, the Treasurer announced that he had authorised the Commonwealth Statistician to proceed with the development of a full-scale survey of household income and expenditure patterns. On 18.6.74 the Treasurer further announced that following completion of development work a major sample survey of households in all capital cities would begin the following day. The Australian Bureau of Statistics expects to publish preliminary survey results later in 1975, about three months after the completion of the collection period for the first survey. From the point of view of my Department the results of this survey will be an invaluable source of information for use in submissions to industrial tribunals. 
 I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Between 1.7.72 and 30.6.73, the Public Service Arbitrator and his Deputies handled 141 matters concerning wages and conditions of employment to which the Public Service Board was a respondent. Of these, 118 (or 83.7 per cent) were settled by consent. 
It should be noted that in these statistics multiple determinations concerning the one subject have been created as one matter. For example, there were 21 separate determinations issued up until 30.6.73 dealing with the implementation of the 1972-73 National Wage Case. These, which were issued following arbitration, are treated as one matter. 
I compliment the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  who has just resumed his seat. He is a very clever person. He has been given recently the position of shadow Minister for Immigration and so he is determined to see that a job is created for him in the unlikely event of the Opposition Parties attaining government - I do not blame him for putting up these phoney arguments in respect of a department of which, one day, he hopes he will be the Minister. Long before that unhappy day comes he will find that the present Department of Labor and Immigration has been so well integrated and will be working so well that to give him the portfolio that he is striving to obtain would be to create enormous chaos and impose upon the migrants unnecessary hardships and disadvantage. 
I work it out in this way. I am glad to see that the honourable member for Boothby is interested in migrants. It is the first time I have heard him interject in a debate on migrants since he has been in this Parliament. One good reason is that migrants more than anything else want the right to be able to get a good job when they come to this country. If a migrant is not able to get a good job with the skills that he possesses when he comes to this country- 
I am coming to that. That is what it means: If he does not have a skill, he is unskilled. If he is unskilled when he comes here and is not able to get the sort of job he would like to get, he would hope that he had come to a country governed by a Government that did something about retraining or training, as the case may be. This Government is doing something about that. It is terribly important to the future of migrants that they have close contact with a department that can provide them with suitable employment or, if suitable employment is not available for the type of training that they have had, that the department can provide training for them. It is sheer madness to have 2 separate departments to do these 2 separate jobs. Migrants do want this opportunity for employment more than anything else when they come to the country. By that function of Government being integrated into the former Department of Labor, they will get it in a much more effective way than they ever could have if the retraining and the employment opportunities department, if I may call the Department of Labor that for the moment, were a separate department and isolated in a sense from the migrant people. 
What the honourable gentleman did not mention - and I do not blame him for not mentioning it because it would have gone right against his case - is that the main competitor with Australia for migrants is Canada which does have manpower and migration integrated. There is a Department of Manpower and Migration in Canada and it works extremely well there. It works so well that Canada obtains many more migrants than we do, much to our ill-content. But it is- 
When we were looking for more migrants, we found that Canada was able to get more than we could. We were not able to get what we needed then because Canada was outbidding us. I am trying to make the point that Canada had no difficulty in welding manpower and migration to form a single department. 
The honourable gentleman in the matter of public importance that he proposes for discussion - expressed in a very bland sentence - talks about confusion and uncertainty. 
-It is a funny thing that the Opposition which proposed this matter for discussion- 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  put: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
My attention has been drawn to the practices referred to by the honourable member. In the case of Grace Bros it is true, I am informed by reliable informants, that the staff was brought back on the very day that the wage increase was granted to them to mark the prices of all goods then held to a figure representing 100 per cent mark-up. Many instances have also been brought to my notice of supermarkets displaying items on their shelves which have as many as 3 different price-tags, one placed upon the other, each being higher than the original tag, indicating that when the original tag was put on the article it represented a proper and quite generous mark-up on the item, but was later increased and then still further increased without the seller of the article being required to pay any more for the article than when he originally bought it. A delegation of trade union representatives waited on me and the  Deputy  Prime Minister only a couple of weeks ago. They were able to show us articles of clothing bearing the trade name 'Levi'. Some of these were produced in Adelaide; others, which were sold by the same company and were of the same material, the same cut and in exactly identical form, were purchased from either Taiwan or Hong Kong. 
The Deputy Prime Minister tells me it was Hong Kong. The articles from Hong Kong each cost $4 less for the importer or the retailer to purchase than did the. ones manufactured in Adelaide. Yet both articles were marked up to the same price. This presumably represented a fair mark-up on the Adelaide article, so that in respect of the goods from Hong Kong the public was robbed either by the importers, the wholesalers or the retailers. I do not know at which point the robbery occurred but the public was robbed by one or other of the 3 groups I have mentioned, or jointly by them all, to an extent of 300 per .cent profit. If one wants to find the real culprits in our society, the people who are really responsible for the inflationary examples that are now being referred to, one should look at the retailers, the wholesalers or the importers, or the combination of the three, who are responsible for the mark-ups of as much as 300 per cent on the cost price of the articles. 
First of all, the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  seeks to eliminate sub-sections (2) to (6) inclusive from the proposed new section 158L. The honourable gentleman is proposing to delete from the Bill the very safeguards about which he pretends to be so concerned. I refer to the safeguards which are written into the Bill to ensure that where the rules of a union do not provide for a compulsory postal ballot of all members, then the members of that union will have the right to petition the Registrar for a ballot to be conducted by the Registrar or by the Chief Electoral Officer in accordance with the traditional way in which the Chief Electoral Officer has always conducted the ballots. I know of only one union the rules of which provide that ballots may be held at the union meeting- 
The Amalgamated Metal Workers Union. 
Nonsense. A unionist can get a postal vote or an absentee vote whenever he likes and the question about putting- 
The honourable member has been talking to a National Civic Council agent because that is the sort of rubbish that organisation peddles. 
They must have been members of the NCC. 
Well, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  is in it. I do not know of any better reason for steering clear of it. The only union, I repeat, which does not have provision in its rules for postal ballots and for a ballot paper to be posted to every single member is the AMWU. It is a union with 160,000 members. All that is needed to be obtained out of the 160,000 members is a paltry 250 signatures which is provided for in the Bill. When those 250 signatures have been obtained all of the 160,000 members of that union will be supplied with ballot papers direct from the Chief Electoral Officer and the ballot will be conducted in exactly the same way as any other ballot conducted by the Chief Electoral Officer for union elections. 
Of course you could not do it with your medical benefit fund. 
You cannot do it with your hospital fund either. The honourable member who has moved the amendment seeks to delete that most admirable portion of the Bill altogether. He does not want members to have that right. But it is only to unions the rules of which do not provide automatically for postal ballots that this provision could ever apply. Therefore we say that the unions' rules shall apply wherever they provide for a postal ballot and where they do not provide for a postal ballot 250 members out of 160,000 AMWU members simply have to sign a petition and a ballot will be conducted in the way that most union ballots are conducted. 
Most union rules that I know of - I only know of one already that does not do so- 
The honourable member makes 20,000 better points than I make. I said there were 160,000 members. He says there are 180,000 members. I say, then, you only need - I amend what I said - a miserable 250 names out of 180,000 to get a ballot conducted in this way. The honourable member is seeking to take that right away from them. 
Honourable members opposite are seeking to take that right away from members and they intend imposing upon them an obligation to comply with the provisions of the existing Act. 
I now move to the second amendment moved by the honourable member for Wannon. It relates to the silly provision that was put into the Act under pressure from the Democratic Labor Party. Everyone knows that. Apparently  Mr George  Polites has not yet rung the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  yet. He is going to though. He is going to tell him what an ass he has made of himself. I beg your pardon,  Mr Chairman,  I withdraw that.  Mr Polites  will tell the honourable member that what he is doing is very detrimental indeed to the best industrial relations of this country. I think that if I listened in on the phone - which of course I would not attempt to do - I would hear  Mr Polites  accusing the honourable member of paying more attention to the NCC than to the employers national organisation. The amendment provides for a ballot of mem bers and unless 50 per cent of the total membership vote then even if 49 per cent of the total membership vote in favour of the amalgamation the amalgamation proposal is declared lost. How can you be so silly? I amend that. There has to be 50 per cent of the 50 per cent. If less than 50 per cent of the total membership vote it does not matter whether the whole of the 49 per cent are in favour of the proposal; the ballot is deemed to be lost. That is the main objection by the unions and by the employers who are discerning enough to see where the Opposition is heading. The Government has to reject the 2 amendments moved by the honourable member for Wannon. 
I thank the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  for the machinery amendment, the need for which he was sharp enough to pick up. He told me he intended to move that amendment. It is a very technical thing. One could describe it as a machinery amendment. We imagine that that amendment will be supported by the Opposition because the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  also picked it up, I understand. We would assume there is no opposition to that amendment. The Government has to reject both the amendments which have been moved by the Opposition. 
I wish to make just a few corrections. I did not say that there would be 250 miserable unionists; I said there would be a miserable 250, meaning only a small number of unionists. The honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said that when the 250 petitioners sign their names, their names are put up on a blackboard for all to see. The honourable gentleman is picking up industrial relations fairly rapidly, but there is one small thing that he has not yet discovered. When a petition is sent to the Registrar that petition is strictly confidential. No one can look at it. The petition is taken by the Registrar's officers and the  Deputy  Registrar takes the petition to the union office and asks for the roll of union members to check the names. No one sees the petition. I have been through the procedure myself. The  Deputy  Registrar there ticks off the names of those who signed the petition to ascertain whether they are members of the union in fact or not. Indeed, they do not even have to be financial members of the union in order for their names to be accepted on a petition. 
It is an odd thing that the Opposition should go to all this trouble about a compulsory postal vote for an amalgamation. All the time that Opposition members were in government they never sought to impose the same kind of provision for the election of officers. Surely it is much more important to have the election of officers conducted in a way that is proper than it is for an amalgamation ballot to be conducted in this way. Yet never once did it occur to honourable members opposite when they were in government to make it a compulsory requirement of the Act that all union ballots for the election of officers shall he conducted by an electoral officer. The ballots conducted under the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union rules are secret ballots. They are not postal ballots unless petitioned for under the provisions of the Bill. But they are secret ballots because the ballot papers are distributed on the night of the star meeting. The members record their votes which are put in the ballot box and counted by the scrutineers. 
I shall talk about two other things. Reference was made to sub-section (2) of proposed new section 158 G which deals with the requirement to publish the resolution in a periodical, journal or other publication of the organisation or, in any case, in a metropolitan daily newspaper in each State. I was asked to clarify this matter and to indicate the Government's intention. We intend - if need be we can do it by regulation - that notification shall be published in a morning daily newspaper and not in some obscure afternoon newspaper. I want to clear up another matter in response to some questions which were directed to me during the week. Proposed new section 158 Q states:  158q. On and from the day on which an amalgamation takes effect in accordance with this Part - 
an award that was, immediately before that day, binding on a de-registering organisation and its members becomes, by force of this Act, binding on the amalgamated organisation and its members; and 
such an award has effect for all purposes, including the obligations of employers and organisations of employers, as if references in the award to a de-registering organisation included references to the amalgamated organisation. 
That does not mean that a State Act of an award of a State tribunal will be automatically cancelled. It applies only to Federal awards. It simply means that a Federal award will not cease to exist just because the union which was the applicant or even the respondent to the award has ceased to exist as a separate entity. That is all that the proposed new section means. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report of the Committee of Inquiry on Coordinated Industrial Organisations by the Honourable John Bernard Sweeny, a Judge of the Australian Industrial Court. 
For the information of the honourable members I present the report of the conference of Australian and State Ministers for Immigration dated 9 November 1973. 
For the information of the honourable members I present the text of the following International Treaty adopted 'by the International Labour Conference at its 58th Session in 1973: 
Convention No. 137 concerning dock work. 
Also tabled are the texts of Convention No. 86 concerning the maximum length of con tracts of employment of indigenous workers and Convention No. 83 concerning the application of international labour standards to nonmetropolitan territories adopted at the 30th session of the International Conference. 
I also present the report of the Australian Government delegation to the 58th Session of the International Labour Conference. The relevant laws and practices are in conformity with the conventions and with the approval of the Executive Council. Instruments of ratification in respect of the conventions have been lodged with the Director-General of the International Labour Office. 
The Government will be bringing in legislation to give effect to the report by  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Sweeney in the Budget session. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  of course, was quite right - not quite wrong - in what he said about the oil dispute in New South Wales. 
I have never regarded economists as being very good at settling industrial disputes. However, I had the advantage of reading the paper which the honourable gentleman wrote on the matter of wage indexation quite recently. I took into account all that he said in that paper in making my recommendations to Cabinet. Naturally, there was not very much in it that appealed to me. 
Yes, the Australian Labor Party did promise prior to the 1972 election that, if it were elected to government and if it were given the opportunity to put into effect its industrial relations policy by way of making certain amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, it could and would introduce a better industrial relations climate. We have already made 3 separate attempts to give effect to that promise. Each time the attempt has been thwarted by the Senate. This week we have in this House again 2 pieces of legislation that would make it possible to give effect to that promise. The Opposition here has announced already that it proposes to persuade its colleagues in the Senate to reject those pieces of legislation again. It is utterly impossible for us to give effect to our promises while the Opposition obstructs the very vital legislation that is needed to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in order to make that possible. 
I will examine the details of the dispute to which the honourable member has referred. So far as I know or as at present advised, which is another way of putting it, the dispute is covered by the Industrial Commission of New South Wales and therefore does not come within the purview of the Australian Government. In any event, 1 should remind the honourable gentleman that the Government itself, as a government, under the Constitution has no power directly to intervene in these industrial disputes. The High Court of Australia has said time and time again - in no fewer than 166 different cases since 1904 - that the Australian Government and the Australian Parliament have no power directly to intervene in industrial relations. The only power we have is to pass legislation to give the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission limited powers to act. But they are very limited powers which means that even the Commission has very little power to do the things that are sometimes necessary. If we had the powers which the New South Wales State Government has - indeed which all the State governments have - in relation to industrial matters, then we could be blamed, 1 suggest, whenever we failed to exercise those powers to bring about settlements. That is not the case with the Australian Government. It has no power directly to intervene. Very often the Commission has no power to do the things that are needed. This particular case, so far as I am informed, is one which the honourable member ought to direct to the Premier of New South Wales. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) : I am not in the position at this time to make detailed comparisons between the textile industry of Australia and those of the Scandinavian countries. However, I can and do assure the honourable member that the Government is giving careful consideration to the effects of import competition on the Australian textile industry. I also draw the honourable member's attention to the wide range of existing schemes available to assist the affected firms and individual employees. 
 I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The latest available figures for labour turnover are based on the annual survey conducted by the Australian Bureau of Statistics in March 1973 (ref. no. 6.8). During this month the rate for male manual workers was 8.0 per cent and for male non-manuals 2.9 per cent. Turnover rates for male manual workers in major industry groups were as follows: 
I am informed that the answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
694. 
The nationalities of the deportees were as set out in the following table. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed that statistics of arrivals and departures to and from Australia are not yet available for the financial year 1973-74. 
However, permanent departures during the calendar year 1973 (latest figures available) were: 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As at 29 July 1974 there were 173 persons in the Geelong employment district receiving special benefits due to retrenchments resulting from Government action in relation to structural adjustment. 
I am informed that the answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since 2 December 1972, fourteen Australian citizens have been refused Australian passports. Of these, nine were issued with Documents of Identity in lieu of passports for limited travel outside Australia; six were abroad at the time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The question of opening a separate regional office of the former Department of Immigration in Griffith, New South Wales, became redundant with the amalgamation of that Department with the Department of Labor. The Department of Labor and Immigration will handle immigration matters in Griffith through its office there. 
and (3) See answer to ( I ). 
Regional immigration offices are functioning in Wollongong, Newcastle and Townsville. They were established in response to regional needs for services provided by the former Department of Immigration. 
to (9) See answer to (1). 
I am informed that the reply to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3)  Mr Grassby  is reported as having said on 30 March that 'the proposed deportations were part of the continual mopping-up operation of the 18,000 illegal residents the Government had inherited when it came to office'. 
The figure of 18,000 was based on a departmental estimate of the number of persons who since 1 January 1965 had either entered or remained in Australia in circumstances under which they had become 'prohibited immigrants'. Distribution by States is not available. 
A revised estimate, as at 30 June 1 974, is 20,000-2 1 ,000. 
The reply to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Immigration Planning Council at its meeting on 18 March 1974 considered the labour market situation at that time and recommended an immigration program for 1974-75 based on a gross settler arrival figure of 135,000 persons. 
The program for 1973-74 was 1 10,000. The Government has announced that it will aim for a total intake of not more than 80,000 during the current financial year, of which assisted migration would be not more than 40,000. This is considered appropriate in the existing circumstances. 
I am informed that the answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
2 Officers. 
Third Division: Class 1 1, Class 9. 
Both officers were in operational areas. 
The reply to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 have been informed that statistics of settler arrivals obtained at the time of entry to Australia do not enable figures to be prepared of the eventual locality to which settlers move. The only source of such information is from the periodic population Censuses. 
Considerable work would be involved in preparing a full reply to your question on the proportion of migrants in nonurban areas. This would involve compilation of figures for some 500 separate urban centres. 
<para pgwide="yes">The attached tables show, for each statistical division in Australia, the total population, the number of persons bom overseas and the number of residents with less than 10 years period of residence as at the 1 97 1 Census of Population and Housing. The table shows that the heaviest concentration of migrants is in the Capital City Statistical Divisions. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Journalists are covered by 22 Federal awards. The Journalists (Metropolitan Daily Newspapers) Award is generally regarded as the parent journalist award and I have used it to determine the percentage increase in A Grade Journalists' award wages since 1968. Operative from October 1 968, the weekly award wages for A Grade Journalists were$1 10.80 in Tasmania, $114.50 in Western 
Australia, South Australia and Queensland and $1 16.35 in New South Wales and Victoria. Since May 1974, the weekly rates have been $196.90 in Tasmania and $202.40 in all other States. The respective percentage increases, therefore, are as follows: 
New South Wales and Victoria-74.0 percent 
Western Australia, South Australia and Queensland- 76.8 per cent 
Tasmania- 77.7 per cent. 
I should add that the differential between morning and evening weekly wage rates has been discontinued since 1968 and the above percentages are based on the 1 968 morning rates. 
China: Visit by Prime Minister  (Question No. 653) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The apprenticeship courses provided in each State are set out in the Schedule to this reply. 
The number of persons who entered apprenticeships were: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Classification of positions as follows: 
Second Division, Assistant Secretary, Level 1, 1. Third Division, Clerk, Class 10, 2; Clerk, Class 8, 3; Clerk, 
Class 7, 3; Clerk, Class 6, 9; Clerk, Class 5, 23; Clerk, Class 4,6; Clerk, Class 2/3, 1. 
Fourth Division, Clerical Assistant, 4; Steno-secretary, Grade 1, 1. 
Total: 53. 
b) Functions of positions as follows: 
Central Office: Overall planning and direction of national productivity action. 
Executive Director of Productivity Promotion Council of Australia: 1 Assistant Secretary. 
Development of productivity groups and information service: 1 Class 10; 1 Class 7. 
Development of productivity projects and training aids for use within PPCA and productivity groups: 1 Class 10; 2 Class 8;1 Class 5. 
Production of productivity publications:1 Class 8. 
General support and administration: 1 Class 4;1 Class 2/3; 1 Clerical Assistant;1 Steno-secretary Grade 1. 
State Offices. 
Planning and directing State productivity action: 2 Class 7; 4 Class 6. 
Servicing productivity groups including provision of training: 3 Class 6; 13 Class 5. 
Membership expansion and publications: 2 Class 6; 4 Class 5. 
Servicing Productivity Promotion Council of Australia and arranging productivity seminars, conferences, etc: 5 Class 5. 
General support and administration: 5 Class 4; 3 Clerical Assistants. 
14 positions. 
None. 
I am informed that the answer to the right honourable member's quesnon is as follows: 
There are no national statistics available on occupational diseases contracted by employees in Australian industry. In New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland and South Australia occupational disease statistics based on workers' compensation claims are published, but these statistics do not give a detailed breakdown on lung diseases. Because of differences in State compensation laws, occupational disease statistics are not collected on a uniform basis. Statistics that are available over the five years 1968-69 to 1972-73 are given below. 
NEW SOUTH WALES 
Statistics based on returns which insurers supplied to the Workers' Compensation Commission in respect of claims submitted but including those for which the duration of incapacity was less than four days, are given in Table I. 
I am informed that the answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) During the past 12 months 26 officers of my Department have received some form of formal training in financial or auditing procedures used in Australian Government Departments. 
Of these officers 25 were from the Third Division and 1 from the Fourth Division. Those from the Third Division were: 1 Clerk (Class 1 1 ); 1 Clerk (Class 9); 1 Clerk (Class 8); 3 Clerks (Class 7); 1 Clerk (Class 4); 5 Clerks (Class 2/3); 2 Clerks (Class 1 ) (Graduate); 1 1 Clerks (Class 1 ). 
The Fourth Division officer was a Clerical Assistant (Grade 3). 
Twenty-four of these officers were in operational positions. 
I am informed that the answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Women's Bureau was established in 1967 in the then Department of Labour and National Service with an initial establishment of 3 positions. It replaced the former Women 's Section which was set up in 1 963. 
The Bureau's establishment at 2 December 1972 was 5 positions. 
, (4), (5) and (6) There are still 5 positions in the Bureau but the establishment is under review. 
The Bureau is concerned with policies and measures related to women preparing to enter, in and leaving the work force, research into existing and emerging problems in these areas and liaison with appropriate organisations. The Bureau is headed by a Director,  Mrs R.  Lyne-Browne, who is a member of the ILO Panel of Consultants on the Problems of Women Workers. 
A Senior Research Officer and 2 Research Officers are primarily engaged on research activities and liaison with local organisations. The Senior Research Officer is Miss C. James. One of the positions of Research Officer is held by  Ms S.  Dunlop; action is being taken to fill the other position. 
A Clerical Assistant gives clerical support to the other officers of the Bureau. The position is held by  Mrs G.  Griffin. 
Department of Labor and Immigration (Immigration Section): Training in Financial and Auditing Procedures (Question No. 367) 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information provided to my Department by the Leyland Motor Corporation of Australia Ltd indicated that they had retrenched 628 employees: of this number only 39 had registered for employment with the Commonwealth Employment Service to the end of June 1 974. 
I am unable to say how many had obtained another job. However, by 29 July no person who had been retrenched was still seeking employment through the Commonwealth Employment Service. 
Information is only available in respect of the sex and broad age grouping of the 39 former employees who had registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service to the end of June: 30 were adult males, 7 adult females, and 2 junior males. 
Information provided by the Company showed the occupational classification of the 628 employees retrenched to be as follows: 
I am informed that the answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
As part of a re-organisation of my Department, a Manpower and Economic Policy Division has been created to facilitate the development of the Government's comprehensive manpower policy. It has taken over those functions of the former Planning and Research Division that are relevant to its new task, and comprises the following Branches (whose functions are indicated by their titles) - 
I am informed that the answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
There remains a pressing need to consider what might be done to promote sound and effective industrial relations policies in Australia in the longer term and to ensure that the machinery and the procedures for implementing policies are the best that can be devised. However, an inquiry to investigate and report on means of achieving these longer-term objectives cannot be undertaken until there is a greater degree of stability in the current state of industrial relations. This will not be achieved until legislation to remendy existing deficiencies in the Conciliation and Arbtration Act is passed by both Houses of this Parliament. Accordingly, it is in the hands of the right honourable gentleman and his party to determine when the inquiry will proceed. If they really wish to see improvement in industrial relations in Australia they should assist in the passing of legislation which will ensure that there is a basis for stable industrial relations in this country. 
I am informed that the answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am flattered that the right honourable member would expect a decision as to ratification of ILO Convention No. 139- Occuptional Cancer, 1974 to be imminent within a matter of weeks after its adoption by the 59th Session of the International Labour Conference on 24 June 1974. As yet copies of the authentic text of the Convention have not been received by my Department. As soon as copies are available they will be forwarded for advice regarding current law and practice and expert views regarding ratification to the appropriate federal and state authorities, the subject matter of the Convention being applicable in both areas of jurisdiction. It is therefore too early to indicate when a decision can be made regarding ratification. I can advise, however, that the Australian Government delegates to the Conference voted in favour of adoption of both the Convention and its accompanying Recommendation. 
Briefly, the Convention commits ratifying states, in consultation with the most representative organisations of employers and workers concerned to determine periodically which carcinogenic substances and agents should be prohibited or controlled; to replace them where possible by non-carcinogenic or less harmful substances and agents; to reduce both the number of workers exposed to carcinogenic substances and agents and the degree of such exposure to the minimum compatible with safety; to prescribe protective measures; to provide workers with all the available information on the dangers involved and on the measures to be taken; to monitor exposed workers' health during the period of employment and thereafter; and to give effect to these provision by laws or other methods. 
I welcome the right honourable member's question which indicates some awareness of the significance of the work of the ILO. For its pan, the Government attaches considerable importance to the ratification of ILO Conventions and since taking office has taken positive action to improve the poor record which Australia previously had in this respect. No doubt the right honourable member will be aware that 7 ILO 
Conventions have been ratified in the past 2 1 months including 3 Conventions dealing with basic human rights. Moreover, Australia was the first country to ratify Convention No. 137- Dock Work, 1973; the ratification took place on 25 June 1974, exactly 12 months after the Convention was adopted. Australia has now. ratified a total of 40 ILO Conventions and continuing action will be taken further to improve our ratification record. 
I am informed that the answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) 591 
11 
3 
Not available for 1973. 
(a) 120 
6 
1 
See answer to 1 (d). However, during 1973, 13 persons from Nauru entered Australia as settlers. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) I am informed that no formal inquiries have been received since 2 December 1972 from any overseas government seeking special arrangements for their citizens to (a) work temporarily in Australia for periods of up to or more than 6 months and (b) to migrate to Australia for specified employment. 
There was one informal sounding about short term seasonal employment but this was not followed up formally by the Government involved. 
Inter-Departmental Committee: Development of System of Social Indicators in Australia  (Question No. 741) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to question 765 on 1 9 September 1 973. 
A meeting of the Working Group of the InterDepartmental Committee, referred to in that reply, was held late last year. It was agreed at that meeting that Departments should give detailed consideration to the conceptual framework for social indicator development, focussing on areas of particular concern to them. This process is now nearing completion and it is intended that the Working Group should meet again shortly. 
As the right honourable member is no doubt aware, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) has been taking an active interest in this area, and a meeting of the OECD Working Party on Social Indicators is to be held in Paris on 8-1 1 November. We shall wish to take into account discussions at that meeting in the further developments of the Australian social indicators programme. 
As I said in my earlier reply, however, this is a most complex project, and I would not therefore expect significant results in the short term. 
National Advisory Council on the Needs of the Disabled  (Question No. 747) 
I have the honour to present for the information of honourable members reports prepared by the Immigration Advisory Council. One is entitled 'Committee on Community Relations: "Interim Report-August 1974" '. The other is entitled 'Committee on Social Patterns: "A Study of Older Migrants, Interim Report- June 1974" ' 
I think we can get some idea of how seriously the Opposition is treating this matter when it allows not the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  to introduce it but the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony).  It was not the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  not the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr 
Malcolm Fraser) who is a man of some substance, not the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  who is another man of substance, and not the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  who is a man of substance too, who supported its introduction but none other than the most junior person sitting on the front bench, opposite, a man who got there only by the skin of his teeth and because he happened to have, dinner at the lobby with  Mr Snedden  the day before he selected his front bench. He has no other virtue and no other claim to fame. 
I do not know whether he was or not. 
What is it you wish me to withdraw? 
I do not know. I know he had a bad back. 
I am not going to withdraw the remark about whether I knew whether he was sober or not. 
Motion (by  Mr Killen)  proposed: 
That the Minister for Labor and Immigration be no longer heard. 
I did not put a breathalyser on him. How could I know? 
Question resolved in the negative. 
I withdraw that I - 
-Just a minute. No, I will not give an unqualified withdrawal; I will give a very qualified one. The withdrawal I give is that I do not know whether he was drunk or sober. Therefore, since I do not know whether he was drunk or sober, I give him the benefit of the doubt. 
I do not know whether some of those who are interjecting now are drunk or sober. 
-All right,  Sir, I  suppose I will have to withdraw it. 
It is all you are going to get. 
-The only solution we have got from the Opposition to all of the problems that we are now debating is that there ought to be compulsory secret strike ballots. Anyone would think that this was a novel or revolutionary idea that has just been dreamed up and that would have been put into the statute book years ago if the Opposition could have thought about it and presumably, if it had been accepted by the Opposition when it was in government for 23 years, it would have used that section of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to force a secret ballot. 
Le me tell the House something about the Act. It appears that those who have taken part in the debate so far from the other side know little about it. For nearly 50 years now there has been a provision in the Act to permit this sort of thing to be done. For the 23 years that the Opposition was in government it did not once as a government invoke the provision of the Act that gave it the right to order a secret ballot in respect of strikes. The reason that it did not do it is that it could not do it No government can do it. The Act says that where an organisation is a party to an industrial dispute and where the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission thinks that the settlement of the dispute would be encouraged or assisted by ascertaining the views or attitude of the members of the organisation in relation to the matter, the Commission may order that a vote of those members for the purpose of ascertaining their views or attitude in relation to that matter be taken by secret ballot in accordance with the directions given by the Commission. The Commission can order the ballot to be taken by the Registrar and the Registrar can order that it be taken by the electoral officer. The powers of the Commission are exercisable only by a presidential member or by a full bench and not otherwise. That is not our section; that is the section which was put into the Act by the Opposition when it was in government The Opposition proposed that in no circumstances could the government exercise this power. 
The Act then goes on to say that where the Commission orders the holding of a secret ballot, it may order and direct the organisation concerned to make arrangements for the conduct of the ballot by a person approved by the Industrial Registrar. An organisation to whom the direction has been given under this section shall comply with the direction. A person shall not, in connection with a ballot ordered by the section, obstruct the taking of the ballot, use any form of intimidation, threaten, or in any way suggest that a person might vote in a particular way or that he be forced to omit to vote or that he be forced to support or oppose a proposition or that he should promise to vote or that he should show his ballot paper to any other person than the person who is registering the vote. The penalty for anybody who commits an offence against these sections of the Act is a cool $500 or imprisonment for 6 months or both. That can be done at any time an employer chooses to make an application to the Commission. 
Only the party to an award has the power to make an application, not the government. This was the decision of the present Opposition. It was the Opposition's amendment to the Act in 1972 that made it quite clear that the Government could never in any circumstances make application. It was the Opposition's amendment which said that only those who were parties to the award would have the right to apply. It was the Opposition's amendment which said that the application can be heard only by a presidential member or by the full bench of the Commission. So what does the Opposition mean when it talks about secret ballots? The only occasion on which a secret ballot has ever been held under this legislation was in 1929 during the famous or the infamous, depending how one looks at it, timber workers' strike. When the secret ballot was held more than two-thirds of the membership voted in favour of the strike continuing and, having done that, it was then found that they had to stick by the decision. I move: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I am advised that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics on successful applicants for entry to Australia from the Philippines, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Singapore and India are only available from July 1971. Applicants approved in the ensuing financial years are: 
I am informed that the answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Statistics relating to the amount of sick leave taken in Australia for each of the years requested are not available. However, my Department has from time to time undertaken studies of industrial absence in this country. The most recent was a survey of absence attributed to sickness and accidents undertaken for October 1973, the results of which will be published shortly in the Personnel Practice Bulletin. The survey covered 1,065 establishments in a range of industries throughout Australia. For statistical reasons, entirely reliable conclusions cannot be drawn from the survey concerning sickness absence in Australian industry generally. However, a rough approximation can be arrived at by relating the survey findings on absence rates for Industry groups to the industrial distribution of wage and salary earners in the Australian labour force and deducting estimates of time lost through industrial accidents and diseases. On this basic, the total number of hours lost through absence attributed to sickness in 1973 is estimated at about 360 million. This represents an average of approximatley 75 hours per employee for that year. 
Applications for Permanent Residence in Australia  (Question No. 363) 
I am advised that the answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Migrant application statistics are maintained by country of application and not by citizenship. Comparable statistics for total applicants in respect of most of the countries mentioned are available only from January 1974. Migrant applications received in the period 1 January 1 974 to 30 June 1974 were: 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (I), (2) and (3) My Department from time to time conducts a detailed analysis of the characteristics of persons registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service. The most recent analysis for which results are available was conducted in July 1972: although a similar analysis was undertaken in July 1 974 the results are not yet available. 
The following 4 tables derived from the July 1972 analysis provide an indication of the comparative structure of unemployment as between metropolitan and non-metropolitan areas as a whole at that time. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
ILO Convention No 100- Equal Remuneration, 1951 and 
has been ratified by 80 of the 125 member States of the ILO. The countries and dates of ratification are: 
I will not get very excited about this proposition. It surprises me that a product of the Melbourne Grammar School did not know that it is quite improper to raise the Parliament matters that aresubjudice. 
-Oh, sit down, you big - 
I want to say quite firmly now that if I am interrupted any more by points of order or by interjections that I find unpalatable, I shall at once resume my seat and the pearls of wisdom that would otherwise have fallen from my lips will be lost for ever. I received the letter from  Mr Henry  in my office on 29 July. My secretary spoke with my central office in Melbourne the next day. On 3 1 July my secretary recorded a telephone advice that a copy of the letter received from  Mr Henry  was being sent by my secretary to my Department requesting that the facts contained in  Mr Henry's  letter be checked. A telex message was sent from my office with the text of the letter from  Mr Henry  dated 26 July, which included the text of the letter sent to the Australian Council of Trade Unions by  Mr Henry  on 17 July- it will be noticed that it was 9 days after  Mr Henry  wrote to the ACTU that he decided to write to me- and advice that he had contacted the Department of Transport about the matter. There was a telex from the Department to my office on 2 August outlining the Department's knowledge of events and comments on matters raised by  Mr Henry  in his letters to me. This telex also included advice that the ship's agents had confirmed that the ship had been cleared. On 12 August another telex was sent from my office setting out details of the reply that I had received from the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  with whom I was in touch about the matter. On 2 1 August there was another telex from my office with a copy of a telex from the Minister for Transport outlining the text of a telex which he had received concerning this matter. On 3 September I issued a Press release which I now ask leave to incorporate in Hansard. 
The Minister will not. You either let me do it unconditionally or not at all. 
I ask leave to incorporate this document. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration,  Mr Cameron,  today condemned the practice of maritime unions demanding payments to allow the movement of ships around the Australian coast, and then paying the money into union funds rather than to the crew members of the ships involved. 'I consider this action highly improper and I am gravely concerned, '  Mr Cameron  said. 'It is contrary to all union principles that anyone should appropriate from a worker any of the money due to him as wages. Organised labour has fought such practices for more than a century, ' he said. "The gravity of the principle involved is not lessened by the fact that in this case it is not employers, but unions, that are in effect confiscating portion of other workers ' earnings. ' 'No self-respecting Australian unionist would want to benefit from money gained in this way, '  Mr Cameron  said. 

 Mr Cameron said that since he had received a complaint from the managing director of the Australian News Print Mills,  Mr R.  W. Henry, he had requested his department to investigate the matter. He had also had discussions with the secretary of the ACTU,  Mr H.  J. Souter. 
These investigations had established that some maritime union officials had immobilised the vessel 'Thunderbird' in Sydney until a sum of about $17,000 had been paid to the unions. 
No, you cannot. Sit down. I am on my feet.  Mr Speaker,  I wish to announce that I do not propose to take any further part in this debate. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  put: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904-1973 provides in sub-section (2) of Section 125 that the Minister may appoint a person to be an Inspector for the purposes of this Act.' 
I have not, to this time, made any appointments under this provision. 
Sub-section (2a) of the Act provides amongst other things, that an officer of the Public Service who occupies and office of Inspector in the Department is an Inspector for the purposes of the Act. 
The Australian Arbitration Inspectorate is being substantially expanded to provide a more satisfactory service. As part of this process 46 persons have been appointed or transferred to the position of Inspector within the Australian Public Service. These appointments were made under the Public Service Act and did not require my approval. 
I am informed that the answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) To undertake a feasibility study, develop and design a management and information system in the  former  Department of Immigration. 
To design a real time ADP system for applicant and vacancy information in the CES, examine the equipment requirements and carry out a cost benefit analysis. 
Computer Sciences of Australia Pry Ltd in both cases. 
$98,200. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
For some time now the Government has been giving serious consideration to a number of alternative propositions affecting the stevedoring industry. In my speech of last February I outlined a wide range of initiatives being developed by the Government in labour relations and other areas, some of which have since been implemented and others have yet to be refined before implementation. Matters associated with stevedoring are in the latter category, but I can assure the honourable member that when the Government has formed its plans, he will be fully informed about what is intended. 
As indicated above, the matter of stevedoring operations at Australian ports is under active consideration by the Government but at this stage it would not be proper for me to elaborate. As I mentioned in presenting the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Bill 1974 in July last, an extensive study of legal and administrative problems associated with forms of organisations for the industry is well advanced but not yet complete. 
I do not think the honourable gentleman would expect me to be walking around with all those figures in my head but if he will come to my office at tea time I will give him a cup of tea and the figures. 
-Quite serious allegations were made concerning a certain company in Western Australia about the sponsoring of migrants, mainly from the United Kingdom. I had this matter thoroughly investigated. I discovered that at a conference of Ministers for Immigration in November 1973 it was agreed that a strict set of operating rules, such as those applying in South Australia, should be introduced throughout the States where the land and housing companies were engaged in these sponsorship schemes. The South Australian rules provided that on arrival the nominees would be met by the company concerned and taken to their accommodation. Within 3 days it would be incumbent upon the company to convey its nominees to the State immigration office so that they could be given an advisory talk on such subjects as house purchase, contracts, hire purchase and many other matters that were of vital concern to a new migrant coming to this country. They provide also that any type of contract or agreement for the purchase of a home must not be entered into prior to these advisory talks being given. The present Minister for Immigration in Western Australia, the Honourable Bill Grayden, or William Grayden I suppose I should say, soon after his appointment received a letter from the  Chairman  for Landall Construction and Development Company Pty Ltd requesting a revision of these conditions governing the acceptance of personal nominations from private development companies. I am informed that immediately or very shortly after the Minister received the request from the Landall company, he decided to revoke the 2 rules which the Ministers for Immigration had previously agreed upon so that there would no longer be the necessity, which previously would have operated, of letting migrants know something about the law before they entered into these contracts. 
There has been quite strong criticism of Landall participation in the scheme in Western Australia. From time to time cases have arisen where migrants have complained about the dealings they have had with housing development companies. The disproportionate burden of complaint from Landall nominees was a matter of very great concern to my colleague, the former Minister for Immigration, and he took steps to see that an inquiry was made into them. We found that there were serious allegations about the company's handling of financial arrangements for the sale of houses. It was involved also in the sale to migrants of second hand cars which proved to be not worth the money that they were made to pay for them under terms which prompted serious complaints and critical comment and which indeed raised doubts as to the ethics of the actual dealings. 
I do not know the number of applicants for migration to Australia from Fiji. I do not know whether there is undue delay. I will examine the matter and if there is undue delay I will see what can be done to rectify it. 
If the honourable member for Warringah cares to ask a further question on Tuesday I will read the missing page. 
I have not finished. 
I rise to reject this matter and to ask the House to treat this discussion of a matter of public importance as being what is it- a miserable attempt to try to get some Party political advantage out of a situation over which the Australian Government has absolutely no control or responsibility. 
I am advised that the answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
(1)-(2) 
-This question gives me the opportunity to explain in greater detail than I was able to do on Tuesday under the Standing Orders what the Government's complaint really amounts to. A meeting of Ministers had been held on this matter at which it was agreed that conditions would be attached to these sponsorship schemes in Western Australia in line with the South Australian conditions. Accordingly, two new rules were adopted- rules 10 and 1 1. Rule 10 reads: 
On arrival in Western Australia nominees will be met by a company representative and conveyed to their accommodation. Within 3 days of arrival it is incumbent on the company to convey its nominees to the State Immigration Office so that they may be given an advisory talk on such subjects as home purchase contracts, hire purchase, employment, vehicle purchase, over-commitment, etc. It is reiterated at this talk that there is no compulsion to purchase a home and that they are free agents. They are also offered departmental assistance if required. 
Rule 1 1 reads: 
Any type of contract or agreement for the purchase of a home must not be entered into prior to the advisory talk given by an officer of the State Immigration Department. All contracts, which include offer and acceptance for home purchase by new arrivals, must contain a clause stating that the sale is subject to satisfactory employment being obtained by the migrant. Failing the gaining of satisfactory employment  within a reasonable time all deposit money must be refunded by the company. 
After the defeat of the Labor Government in Western Australia the  Chairman  of the Board of Directors of the Landall Construction and Development Co. Pty Ltd wrote to the new Minister for Immigration in Western Australia,  Mr Grayden,  in these terms, after having had first of all a telephone conversation with him and, no doubt, given him the private reasons why he wanted these conditions set aside: 
Dear  Mr Grayden, 
As mentioned to you during our telephone conversation, my Company is seeking to step up its activities in London with a view to increasing the now of migrants from the UK to this State. 
Following our meeting some weeks ago, we have looked at some of the areas where difficulties have been experienced in the past and I would like to make the following suggestions in the hope of avoiding such problems in the future: 
You will recall that during our discussion I mentioned that problems had arisen due to the practice of Department Officers interviewing our clients whilst we were not represented. We have now received a letter from the Department, setting out revised conditions governing the acceptance of nominations and which continue to include this particular condition. In fact, additional conditions have been included which I consider unnecessary and in some cases onerous. 
Whilst we can understand the concern of the Department that migrant families be properly advised, I do believe that our experience in this area should be sufficient to avoid a lot of additional time-consuming work and delays in processing, and would like to suggest- 
I do not seem to have the second part of the letter. 
Opposition members- Oh! 
I will be brief. I have taken the opinion of senior counsel on the meaning of the amendment. He is one of the most eminent lawyers, I suppose, that this country has thrown up for a long time. He informs me that he believes the Bill as drawn is sufficient to cover all that would be needed by way of buildings and ancillary works, that implied in the Bill as it stands would be all the incidental powers that would be needed. However, my learned adviser goes on to say that he believes that the amendment gives clarity to the Bill and makes it even clearer than the Bill as it stands does. This puts beyond all doubt the fact that we are to have the right of having a parliament house which has sewerage works leading away from it so that when one pulls the chain one knows that nothing will come up into one's face, or whatever happens when this sort of thing occurs. Although we do not think the amendment is necessary, it does not do any harm. It certainly clarifies the position beyond all doubt. Any one who opposes the amendment does so only in an effort to kill time. I do not want to do that. I strongly support the amendment. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Members of the Government have been critical of the award made recently in respect of airline hostesses employed by Qantas. 
The Conciliation and Arbitration Act does not confer any powers on me to appeal against the award. S. 35 of the Act makes possible an appeal by a person aggrieved by a decision, provided that in the opinion of the Commission, the matter is of such importance that, in the public interest, an appeal should lie. 
The period of time available for any appeal against the award referred to expired on 7 August 1 974. 
I think this is the first time I have ever risen to speak on an occasion like this, but I do so for the reason that I believe that the passing of  Sir Eric  Harrison, a man of great distinction and a great parliamentarian, is something which ought to be commented upon by those who knew him well. When I first came to the Parliament we had a different Parliament from the Parliament we have now. There were not so many academics in the Parliament of those days and most of the great parliamentarians of those times were noacademics. I think  Sir Eric  Harrison was a nonacademic. The great names of the Parliament were names like Larry Anthony, Robert Menzies, who of course was an academic, and Billy Hughes, who somehow seemed to get a QC-ship. Earle Page was a medico. John McEwen was a great parliamentarian who was not an academic. Eddie Ward, probably the greatest of all parliamentarians- in my time, anyhow- was not. Les Haylen was not. Then, of course, we had Ben Chifley and Tommy White. All these men were great parliamentarians. So too were Archie Cameron, Arthur Calwell, and Percy Clarey, who resigned his presidency of the Australian Council of Trade Unions to come into this Parliament. Other great men of the Parliament included Artie Fadden, Reg Pollard, Dick Casey, Percy Spender, Harold Holt and Paul Hasluck. That Parliament was a very great Parliament indeed. Men like Eric Harrison helped to make it great, as did those whom I have already mentioned. 
I am very glad indeed that the honourable member for Mackellar was defeated when he stood against  Sir Eric  Harrison, because I might not have had the pleasure of knowing  Sir Eric  Harrison had the campaign waged against him by the honourable member for Mackellar succeeded. One of the allegations that used to be heard nearly every week when the House was sitting was the charge by Eddie Ward that Eric Harrison was a member of the New Guard. I do not think it was ever proven.  Sir Eric  denied it always- sometimes not terribly convincingly, but nonetheless he did deny it. But the only time Ward upset Eric Harrison was when he used to call him 'the dog walloper', which no one, excepting the two of them, seemed to understand. I asked Ward to confide in me as to what he meant by the term 'dog walloper'. It appears that at one time  Sir Eric  Harrison was employed as a shop walker, and Ward thought it appropriate that he should be called a dog walloper. 
He was a great Leader of the House- the first Leader of the House. Perhaps it was unfortunate for some of those who followed that he was such a good leader. It is unfortunate for those who followed that we now have the only other man who I believe was better than Eric Harrison as Leader of the House. Both are very much of the same mould. Both would smile as they stuck in the knife and almost ask: 'Isn't it lovely? Doesn't that feel good?' As one looked at them one could not help but smile and say: 'Yes, it is beaut. Do it again tomorrow'. They would always oblige.  Sir Eric  Harrison loved a fight here. He was a good debater. It did not matter how hard anyone hit Harrison, he never once asked for an apology. He never asked for one; I do not think he ever gave one. Eddie Ward- 'Wardy' we all called him- was the same. They could give punishment, serve it out, but they could take it. That is what I admired about both those men. They were tough debaters. They said tough things to other people but they accepted tough things being said against them. Harrison was that sort of man. I admired him as a parliamentarian. Naturally I was distressed by his policies, but he was nevertheless a great parliamentarian. 
-The honourable gentleman and many other honourable gentlemen from both sides of the House have been very helpful in bringing forward proposals for completion under the Regional Employment Development scheme. The honourable member who just asked the question has already spoken with me about a plan by the Town of Canning for some local initiatives program. The RED Ministers have already met to discuss the proposition. The honourable gentleman will be pleased to know that they have given immediate approval to projects involving $75,000, employing 27 men, and that on Wednesday they will be looking at the other 2 projects submitted. I must compliment the Town of Canning on the excellent manner in which its projects were set out. All the material needed for a quick decision was provided and that is why a quick decision was given. I would like to pay special tribute to all those honourable members from both sides who have come to me personally and who have assisted in giving information to enable RED Ministers to approve the projects. The Ministers have agreed that, once a project is approved by the Ministers tentatively, the Ministers will ask- or I will ask on behalf of the RED committee- the local member, from whichever side of the House he may come, to have a look at the scheme. If he is satisfied that the scheme is one deserving of support then the final approval will be given. 
-Yes. We will be glad to receive proposals from honourable members. 
-Provided it is in a region of high priority. The honourable member for Cowper has been particularly active and has been very helpful indeed in bringing proposals to my notice. I would like to thank him. Any honourable member who has as part of his electorate an area that has been declared a high priority area may either come directly with the proposition on behalf of the council or assist the local governing body concerned. We want the local member in the area affected to be satisfied that the scheme is worthwhile before we will approve it. All schemes will be sent to local members for their comment. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill now before the House remedies the legal problems arising from the famous, or notorious, Moore v. Doyle case of 1969 when, as a consequence of a dispute between what was thought to be the State branch of a Federal organisation and the Federal organisation, the Industrial Court held that there was no dispute between the State branch of the Federal organisation and the Federal organisation. What in fact had occurred was a dispute involving a State union which had its own corporate status, its own legal personality and its separate entity, as to whether the State organisation which had always believed itself to be a State branch of the Federal organisation was in fact a separate organisation. That was in 1 969. 
The decision taken by the Industrial Court on that occasion brought out into the open the defect in the law which industrial lawyers knew about for many decades but which no one had ever sought to bring into the open for fear of losing control of the arbitration systems if the full consequences of the law were made known. At the time the Industrial Court drew attention to the great problems that would arise from the results of this case and asked the then Government to give very urgent attention to amending the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in such a way as to make it possible for the system to work as for more than 60 years people had believed it was working, and at the same time to suggest that a working party be set up to formulate the kind of complementary legislation that would be needed from the 4 State parliaments which have registration systems that give to bodies that register under them a corporate status. Those were the States of Queensland, New South Wales, South Australia and Western Australia. 
As I have already pointed out, the Court made it clear that in these 4 States a State branch of a Federal union which becomes registered under the laws of the State concerned in almost all instances acquires a separate legal personality and a separate corporate position of its own. There is some legal doubt as to whether this applies in New South Wales, but that is not the view taken by the Industrial Court. To the extent that the decisions of the Australian Industrial Court conflict with the decisions of the State industrial tribunals or to the extent that they conflict with, for example, decisions of the Supreme Court of Queensland, which takes a different view, the view of the Australian Industrial Court would by virtue of the Constitution of the Commonwealth always prevail. 
This has thrown up some very serious problems indeed. For instance, it is almost certain that the rules of most Federal unions which have State branches registered under State laws are invalid. It is almost certain that among the rules that are invalid are the eligibility rules of the Federal organisations which have State branches already registered under State industrial laws, whose eligibility rules are different from the eligibility rules of the Federal body and who send delegates to the responsible body of the Federal union which made the alterations to the eligibility rules. For instance, when the Australian Workers Union altered its eligibility rules to include all those additions to the eligibility rules that had been made since its first State branch became a registered body, that action undoubtedly was invalid for the reason that a decision taken by a body that is improperly constituted is null and void because a body that is improperly constituted cannot make a valid decision. If people who had no right to do so sat on the convention of the Australian Workers Union or on the executive council of the Australian Workers Union which altered the rules, the altered rules would be a nullity if challenged. 
In this legislation we seek not only to correct the problems created by Moore v. Doyle but also to provide machinery for validating all of the rules made and all of the decisions taken by the various federally registered unions that might otherwise be invalid. One easy way in which to defeat a decision of the Federal executive of a union is to use the Moore v. Doyle argument, which was repeated in the case of Steuart against the Australian Workers Union, that the decision was null and void because the body taking the decision had sitting on it strangers who had no right to be there. They were strangers because their only right lay in the position that they occupied in the State registered union and there was no place on the Federal executive or the Federal convention for a representative of a strange or foreign union. We believe that, if the rules of the Federal unions which have State branches registered as separate entities and whose delegates have attended the governing bodies of the Federal organisation were to be contested, most of them would be struck down as being invalid. We want to correct that situation. 
There are, of course, quite a number of other problems as well. The courts have watered down the general common law ruling- namely, that a decision taken by an improperly constituted body is null and void- by saying: 'Yes, but insofar as this rule relates to the operation of trade unions it is null and void only to the extent that the bodies concerned are exercising judicial powers and not when they are exercising administrative powers'. So, if the body were to expel a member from the organisation or purport to expel a member from the organisation, the constitutionality of the organisation or body could be. questioned and, if the objection were proven, it would mean that the decision would be struck down. If the decision taken were merely an administrative decision, the courts have held that the organisation would be exempt from the normal rule about the unconstitutionality of bodies making those decisions. 
The problem in New South Wales arose from the fact that the State organisation in New South Wales, which, I repeat, believed itself to be the State branch of the Federal organisation, had taken into its membership owner-drivers and taxi drivers who, by virtue of many decisions of the High Court of Australia, were not eligible to be taken into the membership of a federally registered union. The High Court has ruled on many occasions that the test that has to be applied as to whether a person is eligible to become a member of a union is whether he is an employee and whether he is engaged in an industrial pursuit. Curiously enough, the Court's rule for determining whether a person is engaged in an industrial dispute is not to test the work that the employee is doing but to test the calling or the business carried out by the employer. It is an absurd and stupid ruling which only the High Court could give. No one else would ever dream of applying the sort of principles that the High Court applied in the fire fighters case of not so many years ago, but it has done so and we are stuck with it. So long as we are stuck with the present occupants of the High Court we are stuck with these absurdities. 
I know that the honourable member for Moreton becomes terribly upset whenever I talk about the High Court. The honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  also seems to become very upset, in fact all lawyers seem to become very upset, whenever one points to the absurdities of the High Court. Whether they think that one day they might have to appear before the High Court or, better still, might themselves be members of the Bench and they want to establish beforehand for the institution a kind of prestige that they will be able to enjoy later is something which has always bewildered me. Nonetheless, I have discovered that that is what always happens. So it was always held that people who were not employees could not be accepted into the membership of the Federal body. 
An amendment dealing with this matter was passed to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act last year by the Senate. I do not know why the Senate passed it. It must have been because the Senate did not understand it. It usually throws out anything good. This is something good that the Senate did not throw out. Perhaps, as I have said, the Senate did not understand the amendment. But that amendment will permit Federal organisations to allow their State branches to accept as members people who were not entitled to belong to the Federal body as employees or, by virtue of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, for the purposes of obtaining an award. The Act now gives them the right to belong to the organisation as members but not to enjoy the benefits of obtaining a Federal award. So, if the State Transport Workers Union in New South Wales were to affiliate right now with the Federal body it could take into the Federal body all of its members, including the owner-drivers who are not entitled ever to get a Federal award, and its decision could not be struck down on that account. 
There are 155 Federal organisations registered with the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. In fact, unless we get organisations to register with the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission the system just cannot function. One hundred and seventeen of those 155 organisations have branches registered in one or other, or in some cases all, of the 4 States which have the separate system of registration. As I said earner, we need to have representative bodies of employers and employees in order to make the system function. In its decision in the Moore v. Doyle case the court had this to say: 
We have decided to refer our judgment in this matter and these remarks to the Attorney-General for the Commonwealth in the hope that it may be possible after consultation between Commonwealth and State Attorneys-General, the trade unions, both Federal and State, and other interested Government authorities to arrange for the examination of the important organisational matters to which we have referred. 
The former Liberal-Country Party Government did something about that, but not very much emerged from what it did. It held a series of conferences. It is true that no one really knew what he was searching for. Because the decision had thrown up such complex questions of law, no one in the days immediately following the Moore v. Doyle case really knew what he was searching for. Because no one knew what he was searching for, he was unable to find it. It is as simple as that. 
A few months ago I sought the permission of Cabinet to appoint a special committee of inquiry of experts to study the problems involved and to report back to the Government. I saw the question primarily as a legal question- a matter of law rather than a matter of industrial relations, though it was a law that was vital to the industrial relations. The primary task of that committee was to unravel the skeins of law which had been so badly crossed and tangled in the course of the Moore v. Doyle case. What better could one do, I suggest, than to appoint  His  Honour  Mr Justice  J. B. Sweeney, who led the case for the State Transport Workers Union against the Federal body, and  Mr R.  J. McGarvie, Q.C., who was senior counsel leading for the other side? So we appointed  Mr Justice  Sweeney assisted by  Mr McGarvie  to study the problem and bring up a solution. They were the 2 gentlemen, if I may say so with great respect and deference, who between them managed to get us into the situation we are now in by their brilliant advocacy. In the case of  Mr Justice  Sweeney,  Mr Sweeney,  Q.C., as he then was, the advocacy was really brilliant. I hesitate to call on the GovernorGeneral 's opinion to support this view but he has personally told me that the case put by the then  Mr Sweeney,  Q.C., was really a masterpiece of legal advocacy. So it was. I have read the 1,400 pages of the transcript and know what I am talking about. 
These gentlemen came up with the solution which is set out in their findings and in their recommendations which were supplied to all honourable members some several weeks ago. The Bill now before the House is the result of those recommendations put into drafting form by the Parliamentary Counsel,  Mr Comans.  They are essentially, and in fact everything, that was recommended by  Mr Justice  Sweeney. I place on record my deep appreciation of the work that  Mr Justice  Sweeney and  Mr McGarvie  did in this matter. No one else would have unravelled the problem. Now that they have unravelled it, it is our job to give this Bill passage as quickly as possible. I believe the States will follow with complementary legislation. I have talked with  Mr Hewitt  of the New South Wales Government. He is sympathetic towards the proposal. I have talked with  Mr Campbell  of the Queensland Government. He promised that the Queensland Government would reconsider its previous opposition to the proposal when I pointed out to him some of the intricacies of the law and some of the enormous difficulties that would be thrown up for Queensland if it did not pass complementary legislation as the New South Wales and South Australian Governments have promised to do. The Western Australian Government has said that it will be guided by what New South Wales does.  Mr Hewitt's  information to me suggests that Western Australia will follow the line taken by the New South Wales Government. The problems are graphically outlined in the Moore v. Doyle judgment. A passage from that judgment- it appears on page 120 of volume 15 of the Federal Law Reports- is well worth quoting in full. It states: 
The cases in both State and Federal jurisdictions and the rules of many organisations and trade unions show that the constitutions of the Federal and the corresponding State body often differ to some extent so that membership of the trade union and the State branch of a Federal organisation, if full use is made of the range of eligibility, must be different. The cases also show that the rules of the Federal organisation and the corresponding State trade union each provide for a contribution fee but in all or almost all cases only one fee is collected and this is treated as satisfying the requirements of membership in both the Federal and the corresponding State registered body. 
Very frequently the rules of the Federal organisation and of the trade union on other matters are different from and inconsistent with one another and often the rules require different offices to be filled in the State branch of the Federal organisation and in the trade union. 
In the great majority of cases the trade union and the branch of the Federal organisation are administered as though they were the same body with one set of assets, one system of banking, one set of books, one register of members, one set of officers, one election of officers for both bodies, and one system of meetings of a committee of management to handle the affairs of the trade union and the State branch of the organisation. 
I interpolate to indicate that where the word 'organisation' is used it is intended to correspond with the definition of organisation under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. We are talking about the Federal union when we use the word 'organisation'. The quote continues: 
Despite differences in the constitution rule of the Federal and the corresponding State body, members of one who are not eligible to be members of the other are often treated as members of both and often vote in elections of the body to which they are not entitled to belong. Generally one application form is filled in and this sometimes satisfies the provisions of rules of the organisation and the trade union, but often there are different rules as to applications. Sometimes, as the cases show, the real and effectively-operating body is the State branch of the Federal organisation with the corresponding trade union existing as a mere fiction and it has occurred that a trade union has been held to be non-existent and liable to be deregistered by the State authorities. In other cases it is the trade union which is the living body and the State branch of the Federal organisation may be a shadow or fiction having no real existence. In yet other cases the affairs of the State branch of a Federal organisation and of the corresponding trade union are administered under some practicallyevolved set of rules which are an administrative amalgam of the registered rules of the State branch and the trade union but are not the actual rules of either. 
In the Committee stages I want to explain in greater detail the meaning of some of the clauses. Time will not permit it to be done now. In any event the Committee stages are more appropriate for dealing with the respective clauses. One clause, new section 142a, is the clause designed primarily to deal with demarcation issues between the Federal union, if I may use that term instead of using the word organisation, and the State union, referred to in the Bill as the associated body, because once this . Bill goes through and complementary legislation is passed by the various States it will become necessary, before the job can be completed, for these separate State entities to formally amalgamate with the Federal bodies in order that it may be completed. I am pleased to note that although the honourable member for Moreton seems to be asleep the honourable member for Stirling is nodding and seems to be following what I am saying.  Mr Justice  Sweeney in his report elaborates on the problems. I quote from page 23 of his report as follows: 
The immediate difficulties on registration are obvious but the position inevitably becomes further complicated as the years pass. The rule-making bodies in each case are different. In the case of branches of a Federal organisation the rulemaking body is, except for quite isolated and often accidental exceptions, a body entirely within the State, either a council or a meeting of members. Circumstances have arisen in many cases where different decisions have been made by on the one hand the Federal rule-making body and on the other hand the State rule-making body. 
In addition, in each case the validity of the change of rules depends on some form of registration and/or approval of the change and in some cases one registrar has approved while another has rejected a proposed change. This has led to a position where in very few, if any, cases are the registered rules of the two or three bodies identical in form. Taking one of the most important rules, that specifying the persons eligible for membership, an examination of the position of 24 major unions in New South Wales comparing rules of the State registered body with rules of the Federally registered body showed that in all the cases examined there were differences- some small but most great. Some had wider coverage in the State field, others the reverse. This leads to a position where different persons are eligible for membership, different persons are entitled to attend meetings, different persons are entitled to be elected to office and indeed the electorates are different. 

 Mr Justice Sweeney in his report, which I know everybody has read from cover to cover, goes on to show how the effect of this position could undermine the whole award system of Australia's industrial relations machinery. 
I quote again from the report by His Honour. This time I quote from page 24, at which His Honour says: 
The effect of this position can be very great. In the Federal system most awards are now made in the settlement of a dispute arising from the service of a log of claims by an organisation of employees on an organisation of employers and /or individual employers and the subsequent rejection of that log or vice versa. But the log must be validly adopted by the organisation concerned. 
So, if the body which adopted a log of claims was improperly constituted by virtue of having on that body foreigners or strangers or people who may be described as honourable members like who had no right to be sitting on that body of the organisation because they were in effect officers of a separate State entity, the log of claims would not have had the necessary authorisation and the award therefore would be invalid. 
The report continues: 
If there have been invalidities in elections such as a failure properly to elect a returning officer . . . or a returning officer having been elected by people who have no right to have participated in the election of that person- I am adding that to what His Honour says; that is something I just thought of myself and it is very relevant, of course:   . . or in the conduct of an election such as the calling of nominations at the wrong time or the closing of the election at the wrong time or if persons not entitled to be admitted to membership or if entitled not properly admitted to membership, vote or are elected to office, there may be no validly constituted committee of management or officers. No log of claims will have been validly adopted, no industrial dispute will have arisen, any award will have been made without jurisdiction. 
Similar considerations arise in State jurisdictions. 
Honourable members would appreciate, therefore, the magnitude of the problems which exist under the present laws and the consequent importance of this Bill which seeks to rectify the situation. It is important to note, however, that the problem is not simply one of academic or legal interest. Events subsequent to the decision in Moore v. Doyle show that it is in the interests of industrial harmony that the - 
I will do that. I again ask leave to incorporate this document in Hansard. 
-Right. I continue reading it: 
Devonport: Recreation and sporting centre, $30,000 
Latrobe, Wesley Vale 
Hobart: Foreshore development Went- $160,000 worth Park, Clarence 
Hobart: Sweat track, Geilston Bay High $21,300 
School- Clarence Mun. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are many officers in my Department engaged from time to time on work which might be classified generally as 'research and development'. Those who have the designation of 'research officer' are to a very large degree engaged in research pursuits. Others, though having other designations, are also engaged in more or less degree in research. 
In respect of positions in the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority, for which I am responsible, where the designation 'research officer' is used, the following information can be provided: 
Three. 
The head office of the Authority, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney. 
Work associated with the statutory function of the Authority to obtain and publish information relating to the stevedoring industry 
$28,749. 
The Authority. 
I was hoping that somebody would ask me a question about this matter because I heard some very ill-informed remarks from the Opposition side yesterday about the unemployment position in Tasmania and the alleged indifference of the Government to the Tasmanian position. I have had very strong representations made to me by the Minister for Defence and by the honourable members for Braddon, Denison, Franklin and Wilmot. These honourable gentlemen have been on my back, to coin a phrase, for the last couple of weeks. I am very pleased to be able to say that 1 8 projects have already been provisionally approved for Tasmania under the regional employment development scheme; another 12 projects have been approved subject to additional conditions being met; and a further 1 1 projects are under consideration. Of the 1 8 projects so far approved, nine are recreational projects submitted to my colleague the Minister for Tourism and Recreation and covering the district employment areas of Devonport, Hobart, Launceston and Burnie. These projects alone will cost over $400,000 in total, with the Australian Government contributing a direct grant of more than half that amount. In the district employment areas of Hobart and Launceston - 
I am still in the Hobart area. The list continues: 
Hobart: Sporting complex, fields and fa- $30,000 cilities New Norfolk 
Launceston: Scout Camp development bunk $52,000 house-lobby and recreation hall, West Tamar Scouts, Launceston 
I again ask leave to incorporate the document in Hansard. 
I will move to the Burnie area. Here we have netball courts - 
-As I was saying, at Burnie the projects are netball courts and amenities costing $43,500; Waratah recreational amenities, $38,149. At Wynyard, heating and providing wind breaks to the swimming pool are to cost $ 1 1 ,000. At Hobart, in the municipality of Huon, a project to upgrade obsolete water mains in Franklin is to cost $2 1 5,562. In Hobart, in the municipality of Huon, upgrading water mains at Crabtree Grove is to cost $12,700. In Hobart, in the same municipality, upgrading the water main at Mountain Valley is to cost $16,110. In the municipality of Beaconsfield, which is in the Launceston area, painting by female labour is to cost $32,000. This is a fine experiment in the use of female labour for this kind of outdoor work. In Launceston, employment of female labour at the Beaconsfield Council chambers is to cost $4,650. This proves that all is not lost when there are pockets of unemployment and normally one would think that only men could be employed. Women can be employed and are being employed in this excellent pilot program. 
Motion (by  Mr Lucock)  negatived: 
That the Minister be not further heard. 
-At Hobart we are to develop the Lewis Park Beach at a cost of $13,000; clear the Risdonvale Creek and repair the weir at a cost of $20,300; work on the beach and foreshore cleaning are to cost $5,000. Another project, at the South Arm Reserve, relating to improvements, is to cost $3,000. The total cost for the second list I referred to is $332,000 and the cost of the first list I read is $410,000. Again at Launceston female typists are being employed to do a special job costing $800. This is a small contribution, but at least work is being provided for some women. Work is being performed at the salmon ponds at Plenty for the inland fisheries commission. This is costing $600 a week for labour alone. 
In the municipality of Clarence we are carrying out work for improvement to fire fighting access trails at a cost of $12,000. In the same municipality we are constructing a walking track at a cost of $16,150 from the Tasman Bridge to Ballarine Bay. An elderly citizens' complex is being developed in the municipality of Kentish at a cost of $140,000. We are providing, also in the same municipality, for stormwater drains and improvements to the stormwater system at Railton, at a cost of $10,000. Again in the Kentish municipality we are paying $ 10,000 for kerb, channel and drainage works. Another job in the same municipality also provides for kerb, channel and drainage work again at a cost of $ 10,000. In that municipality the Cradle Mountain road is being upgraded at a cost of $82,000. 
We are to make improvements to the Lake Barrington Reserves in that municipality; that work will cost $12,000. Improvements of the track to the summit of Mount Roland in the Municipality of Kentish are estimated to cost $4,000. Finally, in the municipality of Kentish, improvements to the Kentish Olympic Swimming Pool will cost $3,000. The total estimated cost of those projects approved for regional development is $299,950. Eleven further projects involving a total expenditure well in excess of $460,000 are under consideration. The House will be interested and gratified, I am sure, to know that the RED Ministers will be meeting again at lunch time after which we hope to be able to announce further of these very worthwhile projects. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) and (2) These statistics are not available. 
In 1973, 331 'medical practitioners' arrived in Australia. This is based on information given by the persons themselves on passenger cards and not all may have been registrable in Australia. 
and (5) A comprehensive analysis of these arrivals by source country or birthplace is not available. 
Commonwealth-owned Land: Municipal Rates (Question No. 569) 
I am informed that the answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows 
1 ) 105,003 settlers arrived in Australia in 1 973. 
Settler statistics on this basis are not available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The integrity of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission is in no way demeaned by such statements. I understand that the decision of Justice Gaudron was contested in the proper way, by the Transport Workers' Union's lodging an appeal against the decision. That appeal has since been determined by a Full Bench of the Commission. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Investigations and studies of various aspects of the stevedoring industry have been and are being carried out by staff of my Department, including  Mr N.  Foster. When this work has advanced to a stage at which it would be appropriate to make its results generally available, I will inform the Parliament and make arrangements accordingly. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
104 employers were receiving subsidy for providing long term training under my Department's Employment Training Scheme for Aboriginals in Western Australia at 30 June 1974. 
176 Aboriginals were being trained under the subsidised training provisions of this Scheme. Their ages were as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1)I have adopted the practice that whenever I have to rely upon information from departmental sources for answers to questions, I should indicate to honourable members that I am not basing my answer upon my own personal knowledge. 
No. 
-The answer to the first part of the question is yes, the answer to the second part is yes and the answer to the third part is no. 
I am sorry to be continually getting up and down in my place but this is a Bill which ought to be understood. That is not true. The State branches can own property. Indeed, the State organisation as registered can in fact enter into the bond in its own right because it can own property. 
-Whether it is owned or controlled is only technical. I do not mind who owns it. 
I do not concede that they cannot. In fact, I insist that they could. They have their own funds and they can invest their branch funds in whatever way they choose, whether it is in property or something else. But I am not going to waste the time of the Committee arguing about the highly technical point of whether it is controlled or owned because that is not fundamental or basic to the legislation. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause  7  (Participation of organisations in State systems). 
I understand what the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  is putting. It has not been put to me before and this is the first I have heard of it. I recognise instantly the force of his comments. I am willing to consider such an amendment if it is moved in the other place. Indeed, if it is thought proper to make the exemption to which the honourable member has referred, the Government will move the amendment in the other place. If I understand the honourable gentleman's intention he is proposing that sub-section (5) should stand but that under it the Registrar be not empowered to grant an exemption from the operations of sub-section (4). 
-I will have the proposal examined. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is brief and intended only to clarify an existing definition in the Stevedoring Industry Act 1956-73. Stevedoring operations in Australia are conducted under various Stevedoring Industry Acts. In the Stevedoring Industry Act 1956-73, section 7(1) provides, among other things, a definition of waterside worker and, in paragraphs (i) to (n) of that definition, certain persons are excluded from the definition, and therefore from the requirements of the Act. Paragraph (n), with which we are dealing, currently excludes from the provisions of the Act: 
Persons in the regular employment of a person engaged in an industrial undertaking, being persons whose duties include the performance of  stevedoring  operations in connection with that undertaking. 
Paragraph (n) was introduced into the legislation in 1956 and was intended- the Government of the day clearly indicated that it was intended- to cover situations where the employer used his regular employees to unload or load cargo directly from or into ships at wharves associated with the employer's works and where the cargo was to be used in or in connection with an undertaking of the employer. 
It has come to the Government's attention, as a result of a dispute in Darwin and an associated legal opinion, that the original intention of the legislation could be frustrated by the lack of clarity in the existing wording of paragraph (n). Thus, concern has been expressed by the principal parties in the industry- employers and stevedoring unions- that this paragraph should be clarified at the earliest opportunity. The amendment sought to the Stevedoring Industry Act 1956-73 seeks only to clarify the intention of the original legislation and to ensure that the intention of the Parliament is correctly reflected in the legislation. I might also add that, in moving this Bill, the Government has consulted with the principal parties associated with the industry. They concurred with what has been proposed by the Government. I commend, for those reasons, the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Chipp)  adjourned. 
The position in relation to paragraph ( a) of clause 4 is that the New South Wales industrial arbitration legislation specifically allows State registered unions to include in their membership persons who are not employees but who are engaged in work akin to that of employees, for example, owner drivers. It was really this difference between the New South Wales State union and the federal union which led to the Moore v. Doyle case where the New South Wales branch, or what was thought to be the New South Wales branch, of the Federal Transport Workers Union took into its membership owner drivers who were not entitled to become members of the Federal employee organisation. The Federal body took the view that a branch which was taking into its membership people who could not become members of the Federal organisation was putting in peril the Federal body's registration because at that time the Act made no provision for a Federal body to accommodate people who were not employees within the strict definition of the term 'employees' which the High Court had from time to time placed upon it. So the Federal Executive of the Transport Workers Union sought to direct what it thought was its New South Wales branch, which everybody up until the Moore v. Doyle case believed was the New South Wales branch of that union, to desist from enrolling as members of the organisationbelieving as it did that the organisation was inseverable from its branch and vice versa- not only owner drivers of trucks but also taxi drivers who were owner drivers. 
The Moore v. Doyle case made clear that this situation gave rise to the possibility of invalidities in Federal employee organisations where an associated body, that is, the State branch which was also a registered State industrial union, was acting as a branch of the Federal body. In 1973 we introduced an amendment to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which sought to remedy the defect which up until that point had been a characteristic of the Commonwealth Arbitration Act by allowing a Federal body to take into its membership people who were not employees within the strict sense of the word as so tightly interpreted by the High Court, provided that the organisation remained predominantly an organisation representative of employees who were employees in the true and strict sense of the word. So what we did last year was to permit employee organisations to enrol persons in occupations akin to those of employees, provided that the organisation remained effectively an organisation that was representative of employees in or in connection with the industry for which the organisation was registered and which conformed also with the eligibility rule of the organisation. 
A similar problem arises in connection with employer organisations. It was made quite clear to  Mr Justice  Sweeney in the course of his inquiry that in a number of cases persons who were not employers, for example, persons conducting their own businesses but not having employees, were enrolled as members of employer organisations. The proposed paragraphs (a) and (aa) to amend sub-section 132 (1) of the principal Act differ in substance from the existing paragraph (a) only to the extent necessary to overcome this problem in relation to employer organisations. Honourable members will recall that in his report  Mr Justice  Sweeney mentioned that there was an urgent need for persons engaged in business, particularly those who were engaged in small businesses but who were not employers, that is, the business was so small that they did not employ people, to have representation and the benefit of representation in matters such as prices, tariffs, customs duties and various other matters. Honourable members will find that this is dealt with at page 16 of the Sweeney Committee's report. 
Paragraph (b) of clause 4 seeks to cure a defect which we found in the 1973 amendments to section 132 of the Act to which the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has made reference. This paragraph ensures that a person engaged in work akin to that of an employee, for example, an owner driver, is not eligible for membership of an employee organisation if he is an employer. That is the difference. The amendment was included in  Mr Justice  Sweeney's draft amendment to the Act and reference to it will be seen, if honourable members care to look, at page 50 of the Sweeney report. 
Paragraph (c) of clause 4 does the same sort of work as does paragraph (b). I turn now to paragraph (d) of clause 4. There is a view which is stated to flow from the High Court decision in the Tramways case that a rule of an organisation on a matter prescribed by the Act or the regulations as required to be dealt with in the rules is necessarily mandatory. In Friend v. Barnes, 15 Federal Law Reports, page 184, the Australian Industrial Court held that such rules might be mandatory or directory according to the ordinary canons of construction but more recently at least one member of the Court has held to the contrary. Since rules must be certified by the Registrar and the Court has powers of disallowance, all considerations of convenience favour the view that such a rule may be mandatory when strict compliance is necessary or.directory when substantial compliance is sufficient. 
Let me give an example of what is meant by what I have said. In the case to which I have referred, the rule of the organisation said several things about nominations. For instance, it said that the nomination paper shall be forwarded to the returning officer in an envelope addressed to the returning officer, and that the envelope must bear the word 'nomination'. The Court held that if the nomination was valid in every other respect, that is, that it was received before nominations closed, that the person had the required membership, that his nominators had the required membership, and that the nominee had all the qualifications required under the rulesbut if he omitted to write the word 'nomination' on the envelope, then, that requirement of the rule being mandatory and the nomination was invalid. Honourable members may recall that in an amendment to the Act which the Parliament passed last year, reference was made to the returning officer's obligation to return a nomination paper to the nominee if there was a technical defect in the nomination. It could have been that the nominee had merely omitted the word 'nomination' from the outside of the envelope. In that case the Act now requires that the returning officer write to the person and inform him that the nomination is technically out of order. He tells him in what respect it is out of order and he gives him 7 days in which to rectify the defect. 
Another provision in the Australian Workers Union rule was that a member had to include his union tickets for the last 5 years, his nominators had to include their union tickets for the previous 2 years and they had to include on the nomination paper the number of each ticket and the year of each ticket. A candidate had inadvertently transposed the figures and put a wrong ticket number on the nomination paper. Whereas the ticket number was 15732 he wrote on the nomination 1 5723. His ticket was in order and the number was in order but because he had failed to transfer on to the nomination paper the correct ticket number, the nomination was declared to be invalid. The Court held this. The Court was forced to concede that provisions like this were quite onerous, quite stupid and to the point of taking technicality to an absurdity, but the rules were mandatory and therefore there was no escape from having to declare the nomination invalid. 
The Government puts it to the Committee that in general terms, clause 4 is also quite crucial to employer organisations. It rectifies a slight defect in last year's amendment which, taken literally, could have meant that owner-drivers who were employing people could be members of a union. The clause makes it clear that owner-drivers can be members of a union provided they are not employing people. 
-We do not know. No one knows that until it is tested. I would not be so bold as to try to pontificate on what the High Court would do with what we are doing. There is every reason to believe that what we did last year would not survive a High Court ruling if the High Court stuck to its decision in the case of Pitfield v. Franki, because it was in that case that the High Court laid down that the question whether a person is an employee is not resolved by testing what work the employee does, but by testing the calling or the industry of the employer. If the employer is engaged in an industry that is not carried on for profit, then it may be that none of the people he employs are employees within the very strict sense of the definition given to the word ' employee ' by the High Court. So in answer to the interjection I cannot say that the clause will resolve any constitutional defect. There is a real risk that if the Court stuck to its fire fighters decision it would hold this clause invalid, but there is no way of testing these things here in the Parliament. All we can do is apply commonsense to the legislation and make amendments that are sensible and which seek to resolve problems, and be prepared to support the legislation whenever it is challenged in the High Court in the hope that the High Court does move with the times as it did in the Rocla concrete pipes case. As the High Court showed in that case, it is not averse to admitting mistakes and is not averse to moving with the times and to facing the realities of the day. 
Before I conclude my remarks on this clause I would like to read what  Mr Polites  of ACEF has said about clause 4. He said: 
This clause amends section 132 to allow persons who are not employers to join employer organisations. It also allows the registration of a single employer. Therefore proposals implement the Sweeney report and follow changes made to conditions of eligibility for membership of employee organisations. These proposals have general employer support. 
I do not know whether the honourable member for Wannon has a copy of this report by  Mr Polites. 
-Does the honourable gentleman have a copy of the report by  Mr Polites?  If he does not, I do not mind him looking at this one. 
-Good. This is what  Mr Polites  reports on clause 4. So it is a clause that is considered crucial from the employer point of view.  Mr Polites,  who represents the other side of industry, says that the clause is something that ought to be supported. What I hope the Parliament will do, here and in another place, is forget about party politics, forget about the Government and the Opposition, forget about the political advantages that might be gained from hindering the Government and remember that the people who are the prime actors in this business that we are now talking about are the trade unions on the one hand and the employers on the other. When those 2 sides of industry say that they find themselves in general agreement with an amendment to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, surely it is the height of irresponsibility for the Parliament to say: 'Oh, no. There is some party political advantage in blocking it. Let us do it'. That is not the way we will get commonsense into the industrial scene. We ought not to look at the political angle but at the industrial position. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 5 (Rules to provide for certain funds). 
Clause 5 with which we are dealing seeks to bring together the scattered remnants of the trade union movement State and Federal that now exist, because the trade union movement Federal and State right now is in a state of utter chaos in law though it does not recognise it and though few of its officials realise it. The trade union movement, both State and Federal, is in a state of absolute chaos in relation to its property. 
-I think it will. I think the officials of the unions realise that the Moore v. Doyle situation has shown the law to be such that the union movement is in a state of utter chaos. 
-No. There is nothing wrong with the law. If the honourable member understands the Moore v. Doyle decision he will appreciate that the principles of that decision were perfectly valid and common sense. True, they caused chaos and enormous confusion but anyone with the tiniest knowledge of the law would have to concede that what the Australian Industrial Court did in the Moore v. Doyle case was the only thing a court of law could do when the issues were thrown up to it as they were in that case by  Mr Sweeney,  Q.C., as he then was. The members of that court had no alternative if they wanted to remain judges of the law than to uphold the points Sweeney put to them. The property situation today as between Federal organisations and associated State unions is, as a consequence of this case, extremely confused. Some property is in the name of the trustees of State unions and some property is in the name of the trustees of Federal unions. These trustees may be and they have been trustees of the Federal union and, at the same time, of the State union. In fact in some cases some of the properties of some of the unions are still held by trustees who have long since departed. The trustees have not been replaced when they passed away. 
-They do. If the property is held in the name of trustees and all of the trustees are dead, I do not know who sues or who are the representatives. 
-The honourable gentleman I know is well noted for his knowledge of the law but I wish he would not show off here because it is not helping me having to compete with a man of his profound knowledge of the law. Often there is no ready way of identifying which property is held in trust or which trustees hold which properties. Unless we have the kind of discretion which is incorporated in this clause residing in the hands of the Registrar or somebody- it cannot be carried out by a judge of the Australian Industrial Court; it is a discretionary thing that cannot be exercised by judicial authority- conceivably we could reach a situation in which there would be no possible way at all of resolving the problems. The unions knew this. It was because the more knowledgeable union officials realised the predicament into which the unions have got themselves that they went along with the idea as indeed did the employers. Where a situation becomes so confused that legal action or resort to rules cannot solve it we ought to allow the registrar the discretion to do so. 
The proposed section sets out what appears to be the majority de facto position. It allows in special cases for exemption. It also recognises that there are a minority of unions- very fewwhose position is not clearly covered or encompassed by the section about which we are talking now. Therefore in the case of those particular unions there has to be some sensible way of resolving the problem. The section ensures that there will be some property and funds within each State. This is a requirement that a State tribunal or government would insist on before it would ever give a new non-corporate registration. Otherwise it gives away its right to enforce the decisions of the court and to impose fines where fines can be imposed. Associated bodies could not sue or be sued. If that happened none of their property could be acquired if they were not incorporated. This is the reason the bond has been proposed. 
-We come to it now. Does the honourable member wish to skip over it now? This is crucial. It is tied up with the whole question of the bond. Once you give up your corporate status with the State industrial tribunalbecause of that fact- the right to sue is lost. We must have something in its place. That is why the reference to a bond later appears. This is on page 52. Sub-section 5 gives the Registrar power to exempt partially as well as wholly. It uses the words: 'Exemption from the section or any provision of this section'. In some cases it may well be that there are no branches of an organisation so exemption would then of course apply. I hope the Committee will adopt this sensible provision. It is one that is absolutely crucial to the question of resolving these minority cases of unions whose property position is not fully covered by the section as it is drafted. 
The rules are in bad shape, as the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  says. That is why this Bill seeks to remedy many of the problems that he has talked about by allowing for the union rules to be validated subject to the Industrial Registrar being satisfied that they are not undemocratic or contrary to the law or contrary to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in any other way. That is one of the good things that the legislation provides. It does validate the rules. But the rules are in bad shape now- I want the Committee to accept this fact- and amendments are necessary to be made to existing rules to give effect to the provisions of this Bill. For example, proposed amendment to section 140 of the Act will require union rules to provide for local autonomy of branches. That requires a relatively simple rule alteration. There are some other consequential rule alterations that will need to be made about the establishment of a Federal fund and a State fund and the control of property and these kinds of things. But the amount of work involved in altering rules to comply with this legislation is infinitesimal compared with the work required in rule alterations that will need to be made if this Bill is not passed and someone decides to go behind the registration certificate- 
-No, but a very great amount of work will need to be done if this legislation is not passed, to alter rules that will be invalid if someone goes behind the Registrar's certificate to see whether the body that made the rule or passed the resolution was a properly constituted body. This legislation remedies all of that problem. The other thing that the Committee must remember is that the unions have a year from the time the Bill receives the royal assent in which to get their rules in order. They can have the assistance of the Registrar in bringing the rules into order. The Registrar has never been backward in giving unions assistance in bringing their rules into line with amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
The Registrars have been very helpful, as the honourable member for Macquarie points out, and they will continue to be helpful to unions in this regard. If the unions cannot get their rules in order within the year that is allowed under the Bill the Registrar still has power to give a further extension of time to them in order that they might do so. 
I want to talk about the right of appeal which the honourable gentleman raised. A right of appeal against decisions of the Registrar is now in the Act. I refer to section 88f of the Act which states:  88f- (1) The Commission may grant leave to appeal to the Commission from an act or decision of the Registrar in relation to a matter and may hear and determine an appeal in respect of which leave is so granted. 
Where leave to appeal has been granted under this section, the Commission may, on such terms and conditions as it thinks fit, make an order that the operation of the act or decision of the Registrar be stayed pending the determination of the appeal or until further order of the Commission. 
The Commission may take further evidence for the purposes of an appeal under this section. 
Upon the determination of an appeal under this .section by the Commission, the Commission shall make such order as it thinks fit and may confirm, quash or vary a decision of the Registrar appealed from. 
The powers of the Commission under this section in respect of an appeal to the Commission are exercisable by the Commission constituted by the  President  or by a presidential member of the Commission assigned by the  President  for the purpose of the appeal or, in a case in which the  President  so directs, by a Full Bench. 
This is why I interjected when the honourable gentleman was speaking a moment ago to ask whether he intended that the appeal be to the Commission or to the Court. He answered by saying that an appeal should be to the Court. I very much doubt whether that would be legally possible. The learned and honourable gentleman sitting alongside the honourable member for Wannon, the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott),  would be able to say instantly whether a judicial body has the right to hear an appeal from what is an administrative act by the Registrar. I would think not. Being a layman I could not be dogmatic about it but I would think that the reason that the Act at the moment provides for an appeal to the Commission against decisions of the Registrar rather than to the industrial court was not an accidental piece of draftsmanship. It was drafted, I think, back in perhaps 1956. 
-Sure. I am not giving instant decisions. I am just saying that no matter what new powers are given to the Registrar, section 88F of the existing Act always takes care of whatever powers the Registrar has because it is so broadly drawn that it is wide enough- it has an omnibus effect- to take in any exercise of power by the Registrar. However, I shall certainly look at the points that the honourable gentleman raises. I shall see that they are examined by our legal people. I will certainly be prepared to look at the point raised by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  But if it is the right of appeal with which the honourable member is principally concerned, the right of appeal is already enshrined in section 88F of the present Act. 
-Yes. I agree with the honourable member that it is more important than the right of appeal because the right of appeal is there now, but I will have the matter checked. 
I agree with everything that the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  has said. Nothing that I have said so far has suggested that this Bill will remedy any property disputes. I have not said that at all. I have said that it will validate rules of the organisation with the exception- and the honourable gentleman was clever enough to seize on this- of the only rule that I know of in any union rule book which sets out or purports to decide who owns property. Whether the rule was carried validly or not- it turns out that in that instance it was not a valid rule because strangers were present when the decision was taken- and even if it could be shown that the body which made that rule was properly constituted, the rule would still have to stand the test of the laws of equity and it would need to go through the fires of common law action to determine the facts. Property just cannot be taken from somebody and given to somebody else by passing a rule, even if that rule is made by a properly constituted body. 
The honourable gentleman is perfectly correct in saying that this piece of legislation cannot alter existing property rights, whatever they may be. If in fact it is the State branch of a Federal union which owns a property, nothing that this Bill can do will alter the ownership of that property. Nothing that this Bill can do will alter the ownership of property that is in fact held by the Federal body and of which the States may claim to be the owners. 
Mention is made of the Australian Workers Union. It is as good a union as any to take as an example or on which to illustrate' a point. Let us say that the State AWU as registered in the Queensland industrial system is not defunct. That is by no means certain. That union may be defunct. One could put up a very good case to say that there is no State AWU registered in Queensland at all or that it is not properly registered. What we have in Queensland is a State branch of the Federal union purporting to cover people like hairdressers, truck drivers and liquor trades employees by virtue of what purports to be a still valid registration in the State industrial field. Therefore, what we might have in Queensland is approximately 45,000 members of a State branch of a Federal union and, of that membership, a little more than one'third are validly entitled to belong to the Federal union. 
I do not disagree with the honourable gentleman. But I am saying that there may be no State union. My preamble is that if in fact there is no legally registered State union, what we have in Queensland, if we have anything at all, is a Queensland branch of a Federal union which has the right to cover cane cutters, construction workers and shearers, to mention the 3 main groups of members in the union concerned that it has the right to cover federally. But the union does not have a federal award to cover cane cutters or construction workers. It does not have a Federal award in Queensland to cover shearers. So, what we have is' the State branch of a Federal union, to which some persons have been paying money without any right to union membership. Those from whom the money has been taken have the right to become members of the federal union, but there is no federal award to cover them. Unless the State union is a viable body and is a living thing right now, those people who think that they are covered by a State award of the Queensland industrial court that applies to the Australian Workers Union of Employees, Queensland are not covered at all. They are not members of the State union, because it is defunct. They are members of the Federal union, but there is no Federal award applying to them. 
That is the confused situation that we have got into over the Moore v. Doyle matter. I believe that if the Queensland State AWU is in fact a living State organisation now with its properly elected officers and with its membership in accordance with its registered constitution and eligibility rule, then it follows that Bowman Building and Dunstan House and all of the property in Queensland held in the name of the AWU in that State is the property of the State union, not the property of the federal union. This is true equally of the property held in the name of the State branch of the AWU in Western Australia and the State branch of the AWU in South Australia. But nothing we can say and nothing we can do in this place can finally determine who owns what. It can be finally resolved only by the State union and the organisation reaching agreement as to which body owns what, settling it by a form of amalgamation, and the amalgamation terms would have to be laid out and eventually approved by the Registrar upon amalgamation. Unless and until this is done no one will know short of going through expensive litigation, who in fact owns what property, where the lines between - 
-Of course you are right. It will not solve .the ownership of property and I have never said that it would. All I have said is that this legislation will enable the bodies concerned to reach agreement as to who owns what. 
-They cannot, because there is no provision now for a State body to amalgamate with the federal organisation and thus retain the right to use the facilities of the State Industrial Commission for obtaining State awards. This Bill enables that to be done, that is all. It is quite simple, really. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 6 (Incorporation of organisation). 
The proposed amendment to section 136, the proposed section 136A(1) and the proposed amendment to section 146 are designed to make clear that a federal organisation may have as one of its purposes participation in State industrial arbitration systems. This was dealt with at pages 9 to 13 of the Sweeney report, particularly in paragraph 15 at page 12. The Committee will note that in that report the very first recommendation of schedule C, which relates to draft amendments to the Act, says: 
Section 136 of the principal Act is amended by omitting the words ' for the purposes of this Act '. 
The honourable and learned gentleman is right in referring to the Jumbunna case in which some mention was made of this- the phrases 'for the purposes of this Act' in section  136  and 'for the purpose of this Act' in section  146.  In that case,  Mr Justice  O'Connor said of section  58,  the predecessor to section  136: 
Section 58 adopts a somewhat unusual form of limiting the powers conferred upon the organisation as a corporation but there can be no doubt as to its meaning. It does create a corporation but a power strictly limited to the purposes of the Act. 
But on the other hand- this is what we must feel more bound to follow- in the more recent case- of Williams v Hursey- in the judgment of Fullagar J. it was said: ... the words 'for the purposes of the Act' cannot be given any effect by way of qualification of the personification. The notion of qualified legal capacity is intelligible but the notion of qualified legal personality is not. 
I suggest that the reason the learned judge saw fit to recommend the deletion of those words is well based. It is a proposition which has the support of the Australian Council of Employers Federations.  Mr Polites  believes that those words have been meaningless since the Jumbunna case. The honourable member for Wentworth has rather relied upon that case to say that they are meaningful. The view of the people who are advising  Mr Polites  is the same as the view which the Government has had given to it. It is the view which  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Sweeney holds closely to and which  Mr McGarvie  Q.C. also subscribes to, that once one envisages the federal organisations becoming involved via their branches in the activities of State industrial procedures, then to say that incorporation is valid only for the purposes of this Act when one may in point of fact find a need for incorporation to apply to the operation of some other Act is, I dunk, more to the point. I am not a lawyer, as is the honourable member for Wentworth. Therefore I take very seriously anything that he says. He is a gentleman who has a very distinguished record in the law, having been Solicitor-General for the Commonwealth for many years, and a very distinguished one at that. I do not lightly brush aside what the honourable gentleman says. We will look at it again and if it is found that there is substance in what the honourable gentleman has said, of course we will be prepared to introduce amendments in the other place. But I am certainly not going to attempt to cross swords with the honourable gentleman on matters of law. I ask the Committee to pass the clause, giving the assurance that we will look at it in the meantime. 
If the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  looks at the rules of any organisation that has branches registered in a State he will see that the rules of unions already provide that the secretary shall be the person who is authorised to sue or to be sued. That is what is in the rules now. The rules of every union say that the Federal secretary is the person who may sue or be sued in the name of the organisation and that the branch secretary is the person who may sue or be sued in the name of the branch. That does not alter anything. That is what happens now. 
Clause 7 is necessary because we have to remember that since the branch of an organisation will not be a separate legal entity it cannot be sued in its own name. This provision takes account of the possibility that complementary State legislation may recognise only a State branch of the Federal organisation for the purposes of the State industrial arbitration machinery and may require provision for the taking of legal proceedings by or against the branch as distinct from the organisation. 
I invite the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  to turn his attention to clause 9 of the Bin which seeks to give protection against a Federal organisation preventing members exercising their rights within a State industrial system. There are some unions like the Waterside Workers Federation which for reasons that would be obvious to anyone who understands the industry do not operate and would see no point or future in operating in the State systems. In the 1940s the Federation did make an application to the South Australian Industrial Court for a State award to cover waterside workers employed by the Broken Hill Pry Co. Ltd at Whyalla. But apart from that one single occasion when the Waterside Workers Federation sought to enter the State industrial system that union has never sought to take such action. They have kept out of the State systems. I would imagine that they would continue to adopt this attitude. But the fears that the honourable gentleman has are well safeguarded by clause 9 of the Bill. I hope that the Committee will pass the clause. 
Clause agreed to. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  seems to have misconceived the whole purpose of the Bill. The Bill has nothing whatever to do with altering the Act to make it easier for federal unions to take over State unions or to make it easier for federal unions to get federal awards extended to areas to which they are not at present entitled to extend their awards. The Bill does nothing at all to alter the present position of the law in that regard. It does nothing to affect section 41 (1) (d), which is the section that the honourable member successfully relied upon time and time again in Western Australia. He admitted he had used the section, but he stopped short of saying, and he could have said it truthfully, that he had never once lost a case by invoking section 4 1 ( 1 ) (d) to prevent the extension of a federal award to an area already covered by a State award or capable of being covered by a State award. 
It is nonsense to say that this Bill concentrates power in the hands of federal unions. It does nothing of the kind. On the contrary, for the first time ever it makes a requirement for registration of federal rules that the rules shall be such as to provide for the autonomy of the branch in matters affecting members of the branch only and matters concerning the participation of the branch in any State industrial conciliation and arbitration system. That safeguard has never appeared in the law before. There is nothing in the law as it now stands to prevent the federal executive of a union directing its branch in a particular State to withdraw from the State jurisdiction which has previously covered its members by way of a State award. The federal executive could dismiss the branch and its officials if they failed to carry out a federal directive of that kind. This Bill says that local autonomy shall be guaranteed to State branches so that those State branches which have State registration and which enjoy corporate status, which registration in the 4 States we have already talked about confers upon them, shall have the right to continue in that way. 
I must admit that I am not only disappointed but I am certainly saddened by the way that the Opposition sees its role as an opposition to be such that it must oppose every single alteration made to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. There can be no other justification and no other explanation for the attitude the Opposition has taken on this Bill, other than to obstruct and to prevent the Government from remedying a serious defect in the law that has been there since it was revealed in 1969 in the case of Moore v. Doyle. The Government has responded to the request from the employers and from the trade unions to try to remedy this defect. I can understand the Opposition feeling it is there to oppose and that it ought to take it on face value that everything the Government does is wrong, but this is not a party political matter. This is a matter that concerns industrial relations, and without it we cannot possibly solve the difficulties that have been thrust upon unions, State and federal alike, as a consequence of the Moore v. Doyle decision. 
The honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  suggested that the unions are not supporting this legislation. Let me say to the House that I have sent copies of the Bill and copies of the report of the Sweeney committee to every one of the peak organisations in Australia and not one of them has made a single comment. 
I have sent copies to all the peak organisations because this is the way those organisations prefer to do it. The Australian Council of Trade Unions has asked the Government always to send copies of Bills to it and not to all of the organisations affiliated with it so that the ACTU can then consult with its affiliated organisations. It sees the practice of sending Bills to affiliated unions as being an act of going over its head and the ACTU resents it. The ACTU, the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations and the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations, as the case may be, always ask the Government to supply them with a copy of the Bill. Those organisations then communicate with their affiliates. They usually- it was done in this case- call a meeting of their arbitration committee, as it is called in the case of the ACTU, to examine the proposal and when they have any comments to make they contact the Government and indicate what the criticism might be. I have had nothing from ACSPA, the ACTU or from CCPSO. The honourable member for Wannon, who leads for the Opposition on this matter, knows that the week before last in my office he met with  Mr Hawke  and me on this matter. I invite him to say now whether  Mr Hawke  supported his view that introduction of this legislation ought to be delayed or that it ought to be amended. He knows that  Mr Hawke  did nothing of the kind. 
-No, I will not. 
I invited the honourable member to say by way of interjection whether  Mr Hawke  supported the view which the honourable member was putting or whether  Mr Hawke  supported me. The honourable member knows perfectly well that he supported my contention that this is an urgent matter that needs urgent attention. 
I dispute that. 
-The answer is no. 
There are many honourable members on the other side of the House who will support me when I say that there has been no political patronage shown by the RED Ministers and I - 
I am informed that the answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The response from women to act as voluntary tutors in the home tutor scheme has been most encouraging. To date 962 women have volunteered. Of these 1 10 have withdrawn for various reasons (some only temporarily) and 576 have attended training sessions. 
As at 1 August 1974 472 migrant women were receiving assistance in their homes under the scheme- 
I thank you,  Mr Speaker.  In my answer to question on notice No. 363 from the Leader of the Oppositionan answer circulated on 18 September 1974 -it was stated in part (1) that in the period January to June 1 974, 65 persons had applied for migrant entry from Indonesia. In part 2 it was stated that 1,5 17 persons had been approved for migrant entry to Australia from India. I am now advised that regrettably an error occurred in the preparation of the answer to the right honourable member's question and that the figures referred to should have been 598 and 1,096 respectively. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) It is not feasible to, and my Department does not, maintain on a regular basis, statistics of registered unemployed who were formerly employed by individual firms. However, a special count of registered unemployed taken in early September showed that a total of 1 15 persons formerly employed by Borg-Warners had registered with the Commonweath Employment Service since the retrenchments were effected, of whom 84 were awaiting placement at 17 September 1974. It is understood the company had retrenched 156 persons. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) My Department has at its disposal a wide range of labour market information which is available through the work of the national employment agency, CES. This information is supplemented by a continuous short-run assessment of the economic situation. Steps are being taken to expand the Department's capacity for long-run forecasting through the establishment of a manpower forecasting unit; this unit is being provided with ADP facilities which will enable it to undertake manpower forecasting based on longrun econometric models of the Australian economy. The capacity of the CES to provide labour market information is presently the subject of extensive developmental work designed to pave the way for the introduction of ADP techniques which will enable data on job vacancies and job seekers to be circulated rapidly between offices of the CES. 
There is a general acceptance of the need for retraining by both trade union and employer sectors of industry. 
Existing apprenticeship schemes will continue as before and I expect they will be further supplemented by provisions of NEAT. 
In several areas, there has already been an acceptance and encouragement of adult training schemes, subject to safeguards for the apprenticeship system. However, some unions have not abandoned their traditional objections to adult training in skilled trades. I am hopeful that as the application of NEAT develops, suitable arrangements will be made to accommodate the attitudes of these unions. 
NEAT is not primarily concerned with industry's responsibility to train its staff. The Government encourages that, however, under other programmes administered by my Department. NEAT will have capacity to utilise training facilities in private firms as part of the overall effort to provide training opportunities to the community. 
It is not anticipated that finance will limit the scope of retraining. 
Training assistance is but one of the measures available under the Government's Structural Adjustment Assistance Scheme. Moreover, training assistance has been available under the training schemes which NEAT supersedes since before the Government cut tariffs by 25 per cent in July 1 973. With the introduction of NEAT the training assistance available to workers retrenched directly as a result of Government-induced structural change will be greatly enchanced and, as a consequence, a greater proportion of these workers may be expected to benefit from training to help them secure further employment. The honourable member may rest assured that NEAT is ready to cope with these demands. 
Findings of relevant studies conducted in other countries indicate substantial success achieved in the training of older workers. Through its administration of existing training schemes, my Department has had experience with providing training opportunities for older workers. It will be one of the functions of the new Manpower Divisions of my Department to carry out and arrange for studies of the nature referred to by the honourable member. 
It is not true to say that there will be no eligibility criteria attached to NEAT. The principal criteria will be the requirements of the labour market, the applicant's ability to complete the form of training sought, and to whether the training proposed is necessary or desirable to obtain suitable employment. These are deliberately broad and flexible criteria. 
As NEAT develops, it will gain in its capacity to provide training for all persons who require it irrespective of age, sex or location. But, in the initial stages, there may be a need to give special attention to, for example-. 
persons rendered redundant by Government action such as tariff cuts; 
persons rendered redundant by technological changes or other redundancy-causing situations; 
persons whose employment prospects are affected by residence in an area where employment opportunities are limited or declining; 
persons who are unemployed for reasons such as health, incapacity, imprisonment, inadequate or inappropriate work skills or for lack of job opportunity; 
persons who enter approved forms of training designed to alleviate specific labour shortages; 
persons already in employment who on their own initiative wish to upgrade their skills. 
10) See answer to question (9), above. 
Country workers will be eligible to participate in retraining and will be entitled to receive appropriate fares and living-away-from-home allowances. The Government has already announced its intention to provide relocation assistance to workers affected by structural change. 
See answer to questions 8 and 9, above, which indicate that older workers will be eligible for assistance under NEAT. 
A basic tenet of NEAT is that there is no discrimination on the grounds of sex, nor is level of income in itself one of the criteria on which an application for training is considered. 
and (15) I suggest that the honourable member directs these questions to the Minister whose portfolio covers child care facilities. 
Those undertaking training will be expected to make satisfactory progress. 
Yes, they will be able to have their cases reviewed by me or by the Central Office of my Department. 
My Department will certainly conduct appropriate investigations as the need to do so emerges, but I would add that for some years now, under existing training schemes administered by my Department, persons undertaking courses for the purposes of labour market training have been undertaking them alongside students and without difficulties arising as to different levels of allowances. 
19) The honourable member refers to a recommendation of the Committee of Enquiry into Labor Market Training (the Cochrane Committee). The recommendation has my full support. The Public Service Board is currently conducting a full review of part-time employment in the Australian Public Service, which includes an examination of the feasibility of permanent part-time employment. 
No. But, since choice of appropriate training will be assisted by counselling by CES in conjunction with its asssessment of short and medium range labour needs, it will be unlikely that a person completing his training successfully would have serious difficulty in obtaining employment. 
1 ) A person will be entitled to be retrained to the extent that training will be a realistic and viable means of assisting that person to cope with the needs and problems of the labour market. With increasing technological and other changes taking place in our society it could be expected that opportunities for training and re-training will have to be made available to people throughout their working lives. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) I presume his question relates to women who have been in full-time employment, have been absent on maternity leave and at the conclusion of their entitlement to maternity, sick, recreation and other leave wish to return to part-time, rather than full-time, employment. 
The Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Act provides that a permanent officer returning from maternity leave must be re-employed in her former position or in a position at a level as near as possible to that held by her at the commencement of her maternity leave. At present there are no permanent part-time positions in the Public Service and therefore the opportunity for transferring from a full-time to a permanent part-time position does not exist. 
The Committee of Enquiry into Labour Market Training (the Cochrane Committee) which reported to me in May of this year, recommended that the Australian Government take the lead in extending opportunities for part-time employment by granting permanent status to its part-time employees. I fully support this recommendation. 
The Public Service Board is currently conducting a full review of part-time employment in the Australian Public Service, which includes an examination of the feasibility of permanent part-time employment. Any questions on the progress of this review should be directed to the Prime Minister. 
-The proposition put forward by the honourable member has fascinating possibilities, I think. It is not one, however, that has yet come to the attention of the RED Ministers. When a concrete proposition can be put to us we will give it our usual sympathetic consideration and, if we feel that it fits within the criteria that the RED Ministers have set for the RED scheme, we will of course give it favourable consideration. 
The matter of public importance before the House is a very important and serious one. It deals with the alleged failure of the Minister for Labor and Immigration to uphold the 30-year agreement by Australian governments to maintain full employment. It is obvious that the culprit, the only person responsible for the present situation, is myself. I hope that we will not hear from now on criticisms of the Government. I hope that honourable members opposite will in future confine their criticisms, as has been done today, to me rather than my colleagues. I do not mind being made the sacrificial lamb for the Government on this matter because the Government is innocent of all the things which have been alleged against it by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns). 
I listened to his speech, not only here but also while I was out of the chamber, and I thought that the honourable member was going to make a really serious contribution. I thought that he had his heart set on doing something about the unemployment situation. But as he moved along with his remarks I began to become aware that it was just a political stunt put forward by an idle member who has little to do other than put up these idle political attempts to make party capital out of a very unfortunate situation which exists in this country and out of the plight of many unfortunate people who, through no fault of their own, are not able to find employment right now. Any doubts that I might have had about his sincerity were of course settled when I heard that silly little ditty which he recited to the House towards the end of his speech. There, in that silly little ditty, we saw the real honourable member for Lilley. There we saw him in his true colours. He was not concerned about unemployment. He was not concerned about the labour position. He just felt that he wanted to talk about something and he decided that as he had this silly little ditty that he had to read to us he would weave a speech around it. That is about all he succeeded in doing. 
The sheer hyprocisy of the proposition indicating this new-found concern for unemployment was certainly not matched at any time that the Liberal and Country Parties were in office. At no time during the 23 years that the Liberals were in office did they show any concern for the unemployment situation. Indeed, they deliberately set out to create unemployment. In January 1 972 the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  speaking in his capacity as Treasurer, was reported in the 'Australian' as having said: 'We have achieved what we set out to achieve.' He has never denied that report. At that time he had achieved a high level of unemployment and he did it because, he said, it had a dual advantage. Firstly, it had the advantage of disciplining unions, because if there is a large army of people waiting for a job at the factory door it is less likely that those inside the factory will want to change their jobs, it is less likely that they will want to go on strike and, indeed, it is less likely that they will even fight and stick up for their rights. The second great advantage that the Liberals see in unemployment is that it restricts the flow of money that is available in the economy. Therefore, if the country can have a very small amount of money it has a situation where the amount of goods exceeds the supply of money and in this way it deals with inflation. 
The Liberals see 2 great advantages in unemployment. We see no advantage in unemployment. We do not deliberately set out to bring about unemployment in the same way as the Liberal and Country Parties unashamedly do. At the very time that the Chifley Government was endorsing the White Paper, one of whose authors was  Sir Frederick  Wheeler who of course is well remembered for some of the contributions that he has made to full employment since then, what was the Liberal Party doing? At the time Professor Hytten, their chief spokesman on the economy, was advocating a permanent pool of unemployed. It is nice to be cool in the unemployment pool and this was the way the Liberal Party intended to deal with employment. 
As I indicated, the policy of full employment was formulated and introduce? by a Labor government. The principle and the philosophy of full employment has been enshrined in the Labor Party's platform ever since. It is a fundamental principle of the Labor movement and of the Labor Government to see that we have full employment and that we do not use unemployment as an economic weapon for dealing with inflation. That is the basic difference between the 
Labor Party and the parties on the other side of the House. Later on the policy of full employment was paid lip service by Liberal and Country Party governments but in practice unemployment was, as I have said, used as an economic instrument. 
The honourable member for Lilley, who has just spoken, was himself a victim of the callous disregard evidenced by the former Government for the rights of people to have a job. The honourable member himself joined the pool of unemployed. He too was able to get cool in the pool that had been created by the McMahon Government. He is now back with us again and to look at him one would think that he has not learnt anything from his experience. 
The hollowness of the full employment commitments of previous government is shown by the fact that over 23 years no comprehensive manpower policy was ever devised or implemented by them. It is true that the former Government had seven or eight tinpot, piddling little training schemes. One managed to train 3 people after it had been in operation for a year and some other scheme was able to train 11 widows. This kind of approach, this small miserable little effort by former governments to the question of full employment and a manpower policy, represented the best they could do. After 23 years we have at last a government in this country that is matching the most advanced countries in the world with a manpower policy. We have set up our national employment and training system- known as the NEAT systemwhich will continue to operate as a temporary measure until such time as our economic policies begin to bite. 
We also have our regional employment development scheme, known as the RED scheme. The honourable gentleman who has just interjected will be glad to know that Ministers concerned with this scheme have just completed another of their regular weekly meetings and at it they approved another additional bracket of programs which relate to the employment of people who are out of work right now. I have said publicly that I believe from March onwards the employment position of Australia will continue to improve, and improve quite rapidly. It is true that the honourable member for Lilley did ask me last Thursday whether I could guarantee full employment to the Australian work force, including school leavers, by March or April of next year and I said 'no'. This was a truthful reply. I have never told untruths - 
If I can finish-- 
If I can finish what I was about to say, I have never told lies- I suppose that is a better way to put it- about the unemployment situation. I have been perfectly frank about the employment situation, perhaps embarrassingly frank because it was my good self who first saw in December last year the possibility of the present economic downturn. At that time I said that if the cyclical downturn in the Western economies which was being predicted by the best economists in the Western world occurred and if the energy crisis remained unsolved there was no way that the ripples from these 2 effects would not wash Australia's shores as well. It was true. I saw it coming then. Anyone who had any perception at all and anyone who had any knowledge of economic factors would have known that the whole Western world would be afflicted by an economic downturn. 
Let us have a look at what is happening in the Western world. We are concerned about the car industry in Australia. But imagine our concern if we were living in West Germany where some 200,000 to 300,000 people who work in the car industry in that country have been put off. They have lost their jobs because of circumstances that were not caused by any tariff policy or any factor other than the fact that the car industry is an industry which like so many other highly mechanised and computerised industries is over capitalised and over stretched. The car industry is producing many more cars than consumers can buy. Scores of thousands of car workers in the United Kingdom have been retrenched during the last 3 or 4 months. Entire plants have had to close down in that country. Even in Spain, which is not a high wage country, we have seen a whole car plant close down in the last 2 or 3 weeks. In the USA, which is the citadel of capitalism, we have seen hundreds of thousands of people thrown out of work over the last 6 months because of the downturn in the motor car industry or, if you like, because of the fact that the motor car industry is now producing goods so rapidly that it is unable to find buyers for the goods it produces. 
That is the trouble in this country too. Our car industry is in the same position as the motor car industries of other countries in that it is able to produce far more quickly than it is able to find customers. It is as simple as that. For the first time Australia now has a manpower policy which is being implemented by way of the NEAT system of which I am extremely proud. It will be possible under the NEAT system to anticipate future labour demands and train the labour needed to meet future demands so that when demand occurs we will have ready the trained semi- skilled and skilled labour that is required. This is the sort of planning that is absolutely essential if a highly industrialised country like ours expects to be able to compete with other countries. 
I regret that the Opposition has seen fit to make cheap political capital out of the plight of people who are unemployed. The present unemployment situation in Australia is running at about 160,000 on seasonally adjusted figures. The figure is not quite 160,000 but it will be very near to 160,000 seasonally adjusted by - 
You are wrong. It is not 160,000 now at all. I said that by the end of this month seasonally adjusted the figures will be about 160,000. 
I am saying that the seasonally adjusted figure will be about 160,000 by the end of the month. The actual figures will not be that high. But it is no use looking at actual figures or looking at the original or raw figures because unless one looks at the seasonally adjusted figures one cannot get any idea of trends. The number of people on unemployment benefits is 54,000. But what would the Opposition do about it? We have heard criticism, but not a single word has fallen from the hps of the honourable member for Lilley about what his Party would do to cure the situation because his Party has not got a solution. All that honourable members opposite can do is engage in carping criticism of the Labor Government without doing anything constructive. If the honourable member for Lilley wants to help the Government cure the problem we are now discussing, why does he not get the Opposition senators by the scruff of the neck and tell them to remember that they are Australians living in a country that is supposed to be a democracy governed by a Parliament, and that the government chosen by the people to govern has a right to govern? The present government cannot exercise that right to govern because Liberal Party senators are preventing us from giving effect to the things that we want to do. 
I have listened carefully to most of what the honourable gentleman said. I apologise for not being here at the beginning of his speech and I acknowledge the fact that he was courteous enough to advise my office this afternoon that he intended to raise these matters, and for that I thank him. I came into the chamber at the time when he was complaining about the way the funds are being allocated and saying that the matter should be left entirely to the States. The Government is leaving the matter almost entirely to the State committees, wherever they operate. It is true that until we had the State committees set up the Regional Employment Development Ministers had to make some decisions on recommendations from a central interdepartmental committee here in Canberra, but that was never intended to be a permanent way of doing things. Now that the State committees are functioning and functioning very well, I might say, at the meeting of the RED Ministers today we approved many new projects that were recommended directly to the RED Ministers by the State committees. 
The State committees are working very well indeed. I agree with the honourable gentleman that there is no substitute for State committees which are able to appraise the value of a job or project recommended from the particular State. Of course, a State committee has a better idea of the value of a project. I know that because today when we were looking at some projects which had been recommended by a State committee some of my RED colleagues asked me whether there was any justification for giving a grant to Moonta, which is in the electorate of the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  because there was a small number of people in that town. Because I knew South Australia so well I was in the same position as a member of the South Australian State committee. I said: 'But you do not realise that 6 miles away from Moonta in one direction is a town called Wallaroo which has 2,000, 3,000, 4,000 or 5,000 people, and 6 miles exactly from Moonta in another direction is another town called Kadina, which has 7,000 or 8,000 people'. Once I was able to explain that to my RED colleagues they were then able to understand why it was that the State committee had recommended that the project be approved. We do not intend to try to appraise these things from Canberra. We want them all to go first of all through the State committees. 
It is not true to say that the local authorities have to start their schemes out of their own funds in all cases. I explained that for the first 2 months of the scheme- until we get the appropriation through- we have to rely upon the Treasurer's Advance account and we are not able to get from that account all the money that we need to give advances. But we have agreed to give advances in certain cases. Today we approved a 25 per cent advance requested from us, I think, by the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  or the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)-  I cannot recall which one it was, but it was one in the north of New South Wales- so that the scheme could start immediately. I recognise the force of the argument put by the honourable gentleman that some of the local bodies just do not have enough money to start the schemes and that they will need an advance. He made his point well when he stated that this has to be taken into consideration. We recognised that today and did in fact give a grant in advance to one of the bodies. 
It is true that the guidelines are being amended, not day by day, as the honourable gentleman said. I think it is almost true to say that there has been some change in the guidelines week by week. But that is to the credit of the RED Ministers rather than to their discredit because it shows that they are prepared to learn what is needed by trial and error. As we see a weakness in the scheme we tighten it and change the guidelines and then consolidate the guidelines to bring them into line with the latest variation. I will ask my private secretary to ensure that the honourable gentleman and any other honourable gentleman who wishes to see the guidelines as amended up to today's meeting are supplied to them. 
We have to be careful about making certain that the guidelines ensure that there is a proper accounting system. The Treasury requires that proper auditing be a feature of the scheme. Where we are dealing with local governing bodies there is not much trouble about that because they are bound by the Acts under which they operate to ensure that money is properly accounted for. We do not have any trouble with them. But where we have projects put forward by organisations which are quite worthy in themselves but which are not bound by the same strict auditing rules as are local governing bodies, we have to have strict guidelines, as we have with the rules that govern the letting of contracts to private contractors. That is one change which we made today. We found that there were some loopholes- I was about to say bottlenecks but I think loopholes is a better word- in the guidelines originally agreed upon in respect of contracting, so we tightened them. 
I will admit that we give preference to people in receipt of the unemployment benefit who have families to keep. If there are 40 men in an area and there are only enough projects to employ 20 of them, and if 20 of them are married with families and 20 of them are single and capable of doing work elsewhere, I believe that at a time when we need 1,400 able-bodied men in the steel industry we ought not to be using RED employment to employ single men who could get a job immediately in another industry, instead we ought to use our money to employ people who are tied to a family home and who cannot go away long distances to work. I would not agree to a proposition that would take a man long distances from his wife and family to obtain work. It is true that we have notice boards. Where a State puts money into a project we include on the notice board that the scheme is a scheme that is being carried out by the municipality or shire of Timbuktu for the State Government of Queensland and the Australian Government. Where the project has no State Government money in it we do not, of course, mention the State Government. 
I have received enormous support and cooperation from honourable members on both sides of the House in relation to this matter. I repeat what I said last week, I think it was- I have received great co-operation from members of the Australian Country Party in this Parliament. No Minister could receive better and more sincere co-operation devoid of any attempt to make party political capital out of the issue than I have received from the members of the Country Party who have come to me with well-presented cases. Nearly all of the Country Party members have done so. Between them they have received more money in their areas than all of the other members of the Parliament put together. That is not only because they have presented their cases well, as have the honourable members from Tasmania, who have also matched them in the way in which they have presented their cases, but also because Tasmania and, generally speaking, Country Party areas are where at the moment, unfortunately, the highest level or the greatest number of pockets of special distress exist. 
Mention has been made of Ipswich. The Ipswich project is perfectly above board. I will not agree to having a good scheme condemned or ruined by political patronage. I will not be in it. I ask honourable members to accept my word for that. I am a tough political campaigner, but I am not going to allow political patronage to ruin or spoil this scheme. I have received from the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson),  who is in the chamber and who will testify to this, great support and strong recommendations, and money has been approved for a project in Southport, which I think is in the honourable gentleman's electorate. I have received support and co-operation from the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  who, just a moment ago as I came into this chamber to defend myself, congratulated me on a project which we had approved only today. We have received support from the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett).  The honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  has put cases to me. The honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton)  and the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  are others from whom we have received support. Honourable members from Queensland have been particularly active. I repeat that I thank them for their activity and for the way in which they have handled this matter without any thought- so far I have seen no evidence of any attempt by them to do so- of making party political capital out of the scheme. If we can keep it going in this way the honourable member who behave in the way I have - 
I would suggest that they go to the nearest vocational guidance career reference centre. My Department has set up a number of these centres over the last year. Schoolchildren will have the opportunity, almost for the first time in the history of this country, to be interviewed by expert psychologists and vocational guidance experts who will speak to them individually and give them the opportunity to look at visual aid equipment and to read text books on the careers that they might follow. They will have a chance to select the career that they will find most suitable for them. Even if they cannot get the opportunity immediately to go into the job they find from going to these reference centres they are most suited to perform it would be far better for them to wait for just a few weeks to get the job to which they are suited than to rush headlong into a job now that they are not suited for and will resent later on in life. 
I wish the honourable member would first talk to me about these things. If the honourable member had done so I could have told him that I did not hurriedly deport  Mr Utter.  He was allowed to stay here for many many weeks longer than he should have been allowed to stay. But this was through no fault of mine.  Mr Utter  was to be deported on my order some many weeks ago but he secured the services of Morgan Ryan &amp; Brock, a Sydney firm of solicitors, to represent him and through their efforts he was able to stay in this country for many weeks while he exploited the opportunities which the legal system of Australia gives to innocent people as well as crooks to stop in the country longer than they should. I want to tell the House and the honourable gentleman that this person is a world-wide crook, a murderer, a thief and a con man. 
-Over the weekend I did hear a statement by the honourable member for Wannon. It was a highly irresponsible statement and I should like to give some advice to the honourable member who does not seem to arrive in Canberra until about Wednesday of each week and is not here today to hear my answer. If he ever hopes to become a Minister who will be listened to with respect, he ought to moderate his language and try to be more responsible in some of the statements that he makes. The honourable gentleman is earning for himself the reputation of being one who will say anything at all. He shoots from the hip. He nominates any figure that comes into his irresponsible head. In this case he said that the scheme would cost $40m a year in Melbourne alone and that the cost throughout Australia could be beyond comprehension. He then went on to make some stupid statement that an unemployed married couple would have the right to get retraining at 20 hours a week and then receive something like, I think he said, $180 a week tax free. It is sheer nonsense to talk of these sorts of things. It is not possible for a person to enter the scheme and to get a tax free allowance. The allowance given is taxable and it is not possible for people already employed to go into the training scheme when people who are out of work or people who are affected by tariff decisions of the Government are trying to get into the scheme. 
We have a list of priorities. Those who are affected by tariff policies are placed in first priority; people who are affected by technological change are put into the second priority; people who are unemployed for any other reason are given third priority; and the final priority goes only to people who are in employment and seeking to better their conditions. This applies when all of the other categories have been provided for. To say what a man and his wife would get if both decided to come into the retraining scheme is like saying that if a man and his wife were both on the High Court they would get about $70,000 a year between them. It is stupid to talk about it. But the statement underlines the hostility which the Opposition parties have- if one assumes that the honourable member for Wannon does officially represent their view- towards women. It shows an underlying prejudice against women. 
-Oh, yes, it does. It shows an underlying prejudice against women. And the Government is determined - 
I listened to the last  speaker,  the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar),  with a great deal of interest. He is a gentleman who seems to pay a great deal of attention to his shadow portfolio. He has certainly given more attention to it than any other member on the other side who purports to have been interested in this subject. I must say that so far- I say 'so far' because we have a fair few years to go yet- he has not done anything about which I would have cause to complain. 
The Borrie report to which the honourable gentleman very rightly alluded is a terribly important report. It could not be completed in the time in which it was originally thought possible to complete it. I, in my wisdom, decided to allow additional time to ensure that the report could be brought up to date and not brought in as an interim report but as a complete final report. 
I am not quite sure about that. I wish that I were. I wish I could answer that question with greater certainty than is possible at the moment. What I can say to the honourable gentleman is that I do expect that the report will be ready by, I would hope, early December. It is much better to wait those few extra weeks to get the final report than to receive some interim report before then. It will not be possible unfortunately to have copies printed before next year. I will give consideration to letting the honourable gentleman have a forward copy of it- I do not mind that- which, until it is presented, will have to be treated by him, if I am able to let him have it, as confidential. 
The honourable gentleman touched upon the easy visa system. This is, as he quite correctly points out, a matter that has given me some concern. The easy visa system is a system which does open the way to all sorts of malpractices and all sorts of shady practices, if I may say so. A member of the Opposition whose name I will not mention has complained to me about a  Mr Baltinos.  He has shown me an advertisement that appeared in a Greek newspaper. I have not had it translated yet, but the honourable gentleman opposite whose name I am not free to disclose has given me a translation of it. 
According to the honourable gentleman opposite who has drawn my attention to this,  Mr Baltinos  is- he says- a racketeer of the worst order. I do not know very much at all about  Mr Baltinos.  He is very critical, oddly enough, of the easy visa scheme introduced in September last year. He is the  president  or secretary of the New Settlers Federation. I think the latest example of his criticism appeared in the Greek newspaper 'New Wave' published on 26 October 1974. That newspaper also published an advertisement attributed to the New Settlers Federation calling upon illegal migrants to contact a  Mr Lianos  if they wanted to stay in Australia. I have not had the advertisement translated, but the honourable gentleman opposite who did bring the matter to my attention has assured me that the translation does invite people who are here illegally to approach  Mr Lianos  if they wish to stay in Australia. 
The operation of the easy visa scheme has been receiving my very close attention for some time now. I expect that in the next few days I will be able to have before me a pretty comprehensive report on its first year of operation. Let me deal, however, with the alleged criticism- I am having the translation checked- of the scheme by  Mr Baltinos.  I can say this:  His  apparently extravagant, over-simplified and, I would say, grossly distorted criticism stems from a man whom I do not propose to dignify tonight by mentioning his name again. I have said it once and that is enough. I do not wish to mention his name again.  His  reputation is well known to most honourable members, particularly to former Ministers for Immigration. I have been given examples of his behaviour by a former Minister for Immigration of some years back. If the description of him as given to me by that former Minister for Immigration is true, he is beneath my contempt and I will have nothing to do with him. He is intemperate and I believe his vindictive outbursts not only against myself in the present administration but also against Ministers for Immigration in former administrations achieve absolutely nothing for those on whose behalf they are purported to be made. In my view he has very little interest in their welfare and is merely using them as a means of attracting attention to himself. I do not intend to be a party to his scheme. In this regard I speak not only for myself but also for former Ministers for Immigration in previous Liberal and Country Party governments. 
The easy visa system was introduced to permit genuine visitors to come to Australia with a minimum of inconvenience in respect of immigration formalities. It was, and subsequently has been, made perfectly clear that the scheme was never designed as a means of backdoor migration to Australia. With few exceptions, all of those who availed themselves of the systems were well aware of the conditions under which their tourist visas were issued. It has become increasingly clear that many have chosen to ignore those conditions and have abused the open door hospitality extended to them. I am glad that on this point, as is usual with immigration matters, my opposite number in the Opposition agrees with my comments in this regard. 
I know, and I congratulate you f6r doing so. Many have come to Australia with the sole intention of seeking employment and/or permanent residence by any means at their disposal despite the undertakings they gave in their simplified visa applications. In some cases it has been demonstrated that travel agencies and others invariably profit from this system and have deliberately misled their clients. But by and large, the visitors themselves cannot be exonerated from complicity in a calculated evasion of Australian immigration policy. One wonders why many of these visitors now seeking to remain permanently in Australia and who appear eligible for migrant entry did not apply for it. Why did they not apply for migrant entry into Australia in the normal way? Why, if they could meet the criteria fixed by the Australian Government for permanent entry to Australia, did they not apply for it in the proper way? Why did they come here as tourists and then seek to dissolve into the population and eventually to seek to remain here permanently and illegally? While the easy visa system remains in operation I intend to implement the policy to the letter. There is no other way. While this system remains in operation we must insist that those people who come here on the clear understanding that they are here only as tourists return to their respective countries when their tourist visas expire. 
In future visitors will not be permitted to change status unless most exceptional circumstances are found to apply. Visitors who engage in employment during their so-called holiday in Australia will automatically be asked to return home voluntarily or face deportation. At today's Caucus meeting I was asked by a Western Australian senator to say how many illegal immigrants were in Australia working in fulltime employment without any right to be here. I told him that no one knows how many there are. All we can do is to make a rough estimate. My estimate, according to the best advice I can get, is that the number of people illegally in Australia occupying full-time employment is in the region of between 30,000 and 50,000. They have no rights to be here at all. They came here as visitors- as tourists- with the clear obligation to return to their countries. They have simply dissolved into the community and are now occupying full-time employment. It is an invidiuos situation when an alleged tourist to this country takes a job which is thereby denied to a legitimate migrant or to an Australian citizen. What invariably happens- this is the worst side of the story- is that when they are known to be here illegally and known to have overstayed their time as tourists, their employers blackmail them into working for less than award rates under the threat of being deported if they object to working at less than award rates. I should like to know how many thousands of men and perhaps women, because we have found Filipino women who have been exploited in this way, are working in Australia at near slave rates of pay under threat of deportation by their employers who have only to say: 'Listen, if you are going to kick up a row about it or join the union I will ring the Department of Immigration and tell them where to locate you'. 
Before visitors are permitted to extend their stay they will be required to demonstrate their ability to continue to holiday here. An extension beyond 6 months will be the exception rather than the rule. Deportation action will follow if visitors do not depart upon the expiration of their entry permits. We have no alternative. I am a humane man- a tender hearted man- who does not like doing this sort of thing, but we have reached a critical stage now where we cannot any longer allow people from other countries to come to Australia, to flout the laws of this land and to do here that which no Australian tourist could do in their country. 
Yes. A round up is going on all the time. I cannot say very much about it because it is secret. 
If the honourable member can give me clues I will send someone up his way as well. With respect to individuals who choose to cloak their activities behind the facade of the New Settlers Association, the visitors involved will be interviewed without any reference to the gentleman whose name I mentioned earlier and perhaps whose name I should mention again but will not. Should he attempt to interfere any further, his actions will be regarded as obstruction and appropriate action will be taken in his case. My advice to any illegal migrants who may contemplate approaching the New Settlers Association in response to the advertisement mentioned earlier is simply that they will find they have been ill advised and any money they may pass over to the New Settlers Association will be money that will be worse than wasted because it will be money that will put them into the clutches of an organisation whose interest in their cases will prejudice rather than help their future prospects in Australia. The organiser of this association has long since forfeited his right to be accorded the respect and proper consideration that I normally give to representations that I receive from citizens of this country. 
I will deal with the remarks of the honourable member for Wannon who so far has been well-behaved in the debate and has not interjected or interrupted in any other way. He talked about the national employment and training scheme, the NEAT scheme. He said that it was designed to help the unemployed. Of course, he is right. If he looks at the priorities he will find that the first priority is given to those who are unemployed as a consequence of tariff policies. The next priority goes to those who are unemployed because of technological change, and that means that nobody who is unemployed because of technological change will be brought into the scheme until everybody who wants retraining as a consequence of being unemployed as a result of tariff policies has been attended to. The next thing we will do is to retrain those who are out of work for any other reasons, and nobody else will be retrained until the people in those 3 categories have been attended to. Then of course we will, in more hopeful periods which will not be very far off, give training and retraining to people who are already employed but who wish to train for a more exciting, more satisfying and more rewarding job than the one they now have. 
It is nonsense to say that university students can switch from being university students and receiving the allowance to which they are entitled as university students and immediately qualify for the - 
-Well, if they are doing it - 
-Let me tell the honourable member something about that. This scheme has been operating now for about a month. It commenced operation on the 1 st of this month. 
-The honourable member agrees with that. We intended right from the beginning- I am now in a position to make the announcement publicly- to set up a tripartite committee in every State consisting of a representative of the Trades and Labour Council, a representative of the employers federation and a representative of my Department, which will act as an overseeing committee - 
It was made a long time ago. 
-The decision to set up the committee was made a long time ago. 
It has not been set up yet. The decision was made a long time ago. We intend that there should be some oversight of this matter and we will see that the scheme is not abused. A good scheme is always open to abuse, just as anything else is open to abuse. The honourable gentleman said that the Commissioner of Taxation might support me in saying that this allowance, so-called, is taxable, but that my Department does not support me. He is right in the first case and wrong in the second. The Commissioner of Taxation does support me. My Department does support me; it always supports me. As soon as I tell my Department what is my policy, it honestly and with great dedication carries out that policy. 
I can only tell the honourable gentleman that I have spoken with the Permanent Head of my Department and he has informed me that he has not given that sort of instruction at all. But it is possible that an instruction of that kind could have gone out from somebody lower down the line. I never take responsibility- I am funny like this- for the misdemeanours or ignorance of officers of my Department. I am not - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  There is no point of order. 
-The Permanent Head of my Department denies that and I deny it. I knew nothing about the instruction. 
-You were told in Sydney? 
-You were told in Sydney by one of my departmental people? The reason I replied to that interjection was that I wanted it put on the record. 
-Quite separately. I want that on the record too. My departmental head was informed by me that the Cabinet decided quite specifically that the payments made to people who were employed under the national employment and training scheme would be taxed. It was not something that slipped through. 
It was a decision that was made knowingly and specifically by the Cabinet. 

-Of course I will not. I would not trust you with anything that belongs to the Cabinet. 
-Of couse I will not. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The Minister will address the Chair and the honourable member for Wannon will contain himself. 
-Of course I will not table the Cabinet decision. What a ridiculous thing to ask. 
I say quite categorically that it is an absurd and preposterous suggestion that I table the Cabinet minutes. 
-The decision. Has anybody ever heard of a Minister tabling a Cabinet decision? Of course not. 
-Yes, I have it in my hand, but you are not going to see it. The Cabinet decision, which I have in my hand, was taken on 8 July of this year and it deals quite specifically with the question of taxation on payments made under the training scheme. It would be absolutely absurd to be paying somebody - 
-No. It is a confidential document,  Sir, and  under the Standing Orders of the House I will not table a confidential document. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)-The  Minister has claimed that it is a confidential document. Therefore there is no need to table it. 
Of course I read from it. I will keep on reading from it. This is a confidential document, being a decision of Cabinet. If it is a decision of Cabinet, it is axiomatic that it is confidential. The honourable gentleman ought to know that. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  The position is that standing order 321 gives the Minister immunity from laying a document on the table if he claims that it is a confidential document. The Minister, I think, has done so. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- The Chair does not rule that way. I call the Minister. 
-Thank you very much,  Mr Deputy  Chairman; you are a very wise  Chairman.  You seem to have learnt more about the rule of Cabinet without ever being in Cabinet than has the honourable gentleman, who has the proud distinction of bringing down a Prime Minister. I say quite categorically that at no stage was it ever intended that this allowance should be tax free. I have some news for those who may have escaped taxation on their allowances so far. The news I have for them is that if they escaped paying tax during the last 4 weeks they will not escape it at the end of the year because they will pay tax on all the money which they have received under the NEAT scheme over the last 4 weeks and which they receive in any future period for which they are employed under the NEAT scheme. I have here a letter from the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  which says - 
-Dated 17 October. 
-No, it is confidential, too; but I can read portions of it which are not so confidential that they cannot be read. 
I am advised that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: (l)and(S) See my Answer to Question No. 1243. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: (l)and(4) See my Answer to Question No. 1243. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) and (5) See my Answer to Question No. 1243. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 )-( 5 ) See my Answer to Question No. 1243. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 )-( 5 ) See my Answer to Question No. 1 243. 
Clarence Fire-fighting Access Trials (Question No. 1268) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 )-(S) See my Answer to Question No. 1243. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 )-(5) See my Answer to Question No. 1243. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) See my answer to Question No. 1243. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (5) See my answer to Question No. 1243. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: (1)to (5) See my answer to Question No. 1243. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: (1)10(5) See my answer to Question No. 1243. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 )- ( 5 ) See my Answer to Question No. 1243. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 )- ( 5 ) See my Answer to Question No. 1 243. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 )- (5) See my Answer to Question No. 1243. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 )-( 5 ) See my Answer to Question No. 1 243. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 )-( 5 ) See my Answer to Question No. 1 243. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 )-( 5) See my Answer to Question No. 1 243. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 )-( 5 ) See my Answer to Question No. 1 243. 
Beaconsfield: Painting by Female Labour (Question No. 1255) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 )-( 5 ) See my Answer to Question No. 1243. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 )-&lt;5) See my Answer to Question No. 1243. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 )-( 5 ) See my Answer to Question No. 1 243. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 )-(5) See my Answer to Question No. 1243. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 )-(5) See my Answer to Question No. 1243. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 )- (5) See my Answer to Question No. 1243. 
New Norfolk: Sporting facilities (Question No. 1249) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 )-( 5 ) See my Answer to Question No. 1243. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 )- ( 5 ) See my Answer to Question No. 1 243. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 )- (5) See my Answer to Question No. 1243. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
11,000 (approx). 
Unemployed persons; redundant workers; persons threatened with redundancy; women returning to the workforce; widow pensioners; ex-national servicemen; former regular servicemen; defence and war widows; Aboriginals. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 )-(5) See my Answer to Question No. 1243. 
I always admire the sense of drama of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and how he can work himself into a state of false dignity- or should I say false indignation rather than false dignity because his dignity, I think, is perhaps not as false as his indignation. What the House has been told by the right honourable gentleman is that the Government deliberately set about to create unemployment. That, as everyone knows, is just not true. Of all the Parties that operate in Australia, the Australian Labor Party is the one which is dedicated to the objective of full employment. It always has been and it always will be. No other Party has such a firm commitment to full employment as does the Australian Labor Party. 
The fact of the situation is that in all industrialised nations of the Western world the same problem that we face- rising inflation and rising unemployment- is being faced. No country knows the answer to this problem. If any country does, it has kept that answer from even itself. No industrialised country in the Western world has discovered how to provide for a situation in which unemployment and inflation are rising. 
-I will explain, at this point, although it is out of the order of my speaking - 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The latest available figures are those as at 30 June 1973 when there were 9,728 private and 2,676 sponsored overseas students in Australia. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Statistical information of private and sponsored overseas students is collected once a year and relates to the student's country of last permanent residence. 
There were 1,345 private and 1,673 sponsored overseas students who departed from Australia during the twelve months ended 30 June 1972 and 1,124 and 2,065 respectively who departed in the year ended 30 June 1 973. 
Figures for the year ended 30 June 1974 are not yet available. 
) Private Overseas Students departed. 
I am informed that the answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
1 ) Statistical information of private and sponsored overseas students is collected once a year and relates to the student's country of last permanent residence. 
During the 12 months ended June 1972 and 1973 respectively 603 and 423 private overseas students were given authority to remain in Australia. 
Figures for 1 974 are not yet available. 
The arrangements which exist with the governments of the sponsoring countries envisage that all sponsored students will return at the conclusion of their studies. Although statistics relating to the number of sponsored students who have been permitted to remain have not been maintained it would be in isolated individual cases only that decisions permitting stay would have been taken in the years concerned. These cases would in the main involve sponsored students who married Australian residents. 
Private/Overseas students permitted to stay for residence during the 1 2 months ended June: 
I am informed that the answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Statistical information of private and sponsored overseas students is collected once a year and relates to the student's country of last permanent residence. 
1 ) The number of private students who were studying in Australia at 30 June 1972 and 1973 and who arrived in the preceding twelve months was 1164 and 1026 respectively. 
The number of sponsored overseas students who were studying in Australia at 30 June 1 972 and 1 973 and who arrived in the preceding twelve months was 1808 and 2247 respectively. Figures for 1974 are not yet available. 
The students arrived from the following countries: 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not possible to say how many persons may have entered Australia illegally. Desertions by crew members of ships are reported but the presence of others is not known until they are detected. Ships deserters make up the majority who come to notice. During the years 1972 and 1973 and the period 1 January to 30 June 1974 the number of reported desertions was as follows- 
1972, 393; 1973, 521; 
1 January to 30 June 1974, 106. 
The nationalities of the deserters were as set out in the following table- 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
l) It is not possible to relate the number of persons deported during 1972 and 1973 and during the period 1 January to 30 June 1974 to the number of persons who entered illegally during those periods. The number of ships deserters and other illegal entrants deported during the years 1972 and 1973 and the period 1 January and 30 June 1974 was as follows- 
1972,259; 
1973,231; 
1 January to 30 June 1974, 106. 
The nationalities of the deportees were as set out in the following table- 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) 1972, 153; 1973, 146; 1 January to 30 June 1974, 211. 
The nationalities of the illegal entrants permitted to remain were as set out in the following table: 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Separate statistics have not been maintained in relation to the number of persons admitted to Australia as visitors and subsequently deponed. The following table provides by nationality and year the number of persons who were admitted with temporary entry permits and subsequently deponed. The majority would have been visitors. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The honourable member appears to have misread the information which I gave him in answer to question No. 600. On the 19 September 1974, 1 informed the honourable member in answer to that question that; under the provisions of sub-section (2) of Section 125 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1 904- 1 973 'the Minister may appoint a person to be an Inspector for the purposes of this Act', but that I had not, to that time, made any appointments under this provision. 
I also explained that under sub-section (2A) of that Section of the Act an officer of the Public Service who occupies an office of Inspector in the Department is an Inspector for the purposes of the Act, and that 46 persons have been appointed or transferred to the position of Inspector within the Australian Public Service. I added that these appointments were made under the Public Service Act and did not require my approval. 
The names of the 46 persons appointed or transferred to the Arbitration Inspectorate, together with their previous job as shown in Departmental records, and date of permanent appointment to the Australian Public Service are as follows: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: (1)- (5) When Cabinet approved the Regional Employment Development Scheme it established a Ministerial Committee to develop and oversight the Scheme. The Committee comprises myself as Chairman, the Minister for Social Security, the Treasurer, the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, the Minister for Environment and Conservation and the Minister for Tourism and Recreation. The Ministerial Committee has determined policy issues which have arisen, and approved areas within which projects may qualify for assistance, and taken decisions on a range of projects which have come to it. 
At its meeting on 26.9.74 the Ministerial Committee adopted interim guidelines to aid consideration of proposals for assistance under the Scheme. Ministers then reviewed a considerable number of proposals in approved areas which required detailed evaluation in the terms of the interim guidelines which the Ministers had adopted. Where there was no apparent reason why projects should be deferred for later consideration, they were provisionally approved, i.e., assistance would be granted subject to it being established that they met, or, after discussion with the sponsoring organisation, could meet, the interim guidelines. This approach was aimed at enabling appropriate projects to be commenced without delay in the interests of the unemployed and the local community. 
Sponsoring organisations are being advised directly regarding their requests for assistance. Members of the House are also being consulted on projects in their electorate and advised of the outcome. 
All the projects referred to in the right honourable member's Questions Nos 1243-1271 inclusive were provisionally approved on 26.9.74. 
I am informed that the answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
1 ) As at 30 June 1 973 there were 4,974 private overseas students studying at Australian tertiary institutions. The figure as at 30 June 1 974 is not yet available. 
Yes. 
As at 30 June 1973 there were 9,728 private overseas students in Australia. These students arrived from the following countries: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to question No. 705 appeared in Hansard on 17 October 1974. 
Export of Liquefied Petroleum Gas to the Philippines (Question No. 1337) 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's questions is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Employment Service records the number of people who register as seeking employment. They can conceivably be people who have lost a second job- that is, a second part time job- and who are seeking to get back again a second part time job or a part time job. The figures do not represent the number of people who are actually unemployed but the number of people who are seeking employment. However, there has been a downturn in the overall level of employment. But it is important to know that the registrations are for people seeking employment rather than for people saying that they are unemployed. The fiscal policies announced by the Prime Minister last night and the monetary policies announced by the Treasurer at the weekend, will, once the necessary time lag that always occurs when such action is taken has elapsed, give quite an enormous fillip to the level of employment. The policies will increase industrial activity and industrial expansion. One can say with absolute certainty that when the time lag has expired Australia once again will be in the same very buoyant position that it was in right throughout the whole of last year until the world economic situation, over which, of course, we had no control, caused ripples on our shores. 
Honourable members will remember my saying in December of last year that if the economic downturn- the cyclical downturn- in Western economies, which was then being confidently predicted by all of the economic experts around the world, in fact eventuated and if the energy crisis remained unresolved there was no way that the ripples of inflation and unemployment which would follow in the wake of these events in the Western economies would not lap our shores as well. This has, of course, happened. All over the world there is an upswing in the rate of inflation and throughout the Western world in countries with industrial economies comparable to ours there has been a sharp upswing in the number of unemployed. Even in West Germany where the level of inflation was very low, we find that it has increased. The rate of unemployment in West Germany was only 0.8 per cent and it has now increased to well over 2 per cent. It has nearly trebled in less than 12 months. Only yesterday in the United States it was announced that in the motor car industry 88,000 men had been retrenched on in previous 24 hours. In West Germany there have been very heavy retrenchments in the motor car industry. The same thing is happening in France and in Italy. The same thing is happening in the United Kingdom. Even in Spain where there is no problem of tariff reductions or tariff increases and where the wages are relatively very low some of the motor car multinational companies have had to close down their Spanish subsidiaries. The fact of the matter is that the motor car industry all over the world is over-stretched. It is able to produce motor cars quicker than it can find customers. We are no exception to the rule, nor are Japan or the United States of America. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. Applications for migrant visas have been lodged with some Australian posts in Western Europe by a number of Soviet Jews who have left Israel. 
Such applications are considered in the normal course with, and assessed against the same criteria as, other migrant visa applications. 
It has been reported that some hundreds of Soviet Jews have moved on to Western Europe from Israel and that the movement is continuing. It is not known whether any of these are now classified as stateless but it has been reported that generally their movement to Western Europe has been and is on the basis of valid Israeli passports. 
If any of the Soviet Jews in question, who have refugee status, apply for entry to Australia the honourable member can be assured that such applications will be considered on their merits sympathetically. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The National Committee on Discrimination in Employment and Occupation was established in June 1 973. 
The main functions of the National Committee are to consider allegations of discrimination in employment and occupation referred to it by the six State Committees, to interpret the requirements of the national policy, to advise the Government on the action necessary to ensure full compliance with the policy, and to develop a national education and publicity program designed to promote equality of opportunity in employment and occupation. 
Seven persons have been appointed as members of the National Committee. 
The National Committee consists of an independent  Chairman,  one representative each of the Australian Government, the ACTU and the central employers ' organisations, and three other members, one each with special knowledge of the employment problems of women, immigrants and Aboriginals. 
The  Chairman  and members of the National Committee are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The list of priorities to which the honourable member refers is applied without discrimination to women and men alike. 
The National Employment and Training System, by discarding the constraints imposed on women by the restrictive criteria of the previous Employment Training Scheme for Women, enables the provision of training on a basis sufficiently flexible to meet the variable needs of women as individuals. 
On present estimates some 6,500 women are currently being assisted under NEAT. 
The types of assistance offered to all who seek training under NEAT are applied without discrimination as to sex. These include training allowances, living-away-from-home allowances and assistance with tuition fees and costs of essential books and equipment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The majority of specialist officers dealing with handicapped persons in institutions have been returned to their normal duties after a short period in which they assisted in the introduction of the National Employment and Training system. The few remaining will return very soon. I believe that every assistance should be given to handicapped persons seeking employment and the experience which these officers have gained with NEAT will prove of considerable benefit to them in their valuable work. 
I think that I could do that off the cuff, but as I do not want to make an error in regard to one country about which I am not sure I ask the honourable member to treat his question as being on notice and I shall write him a letter. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
164, as at 31 October 1974. 
The nationality of these students is as follows: 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) It is a fact that the World President of the Associated Country Women of the World was informed by letter of 5 April 1973 by the then responsible Minister that to permit a Delegation from Rhodesia to attend its 14th Triennial Conference would be contrary to the spirit and objects of the relevant U.N. Security Council Resolutions concerning Rhodesia. 
3 ) No information is available on this. 
The purpose of the U.N. Security Council Resolutions on Rhodesia is the welfare of the presently disadvantaged coloured majority of that country's population. These Resolutions have received the support of successive Australian Governments. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Statistics have not been maintained. Information which has come to notice through the day to day activities of my Department as well as from special investigations has disclosed that a large number of people who have entered Australia as visitors have taken employment contrary to the conditions of their entry. Estimates suggest that the number could be between 30,000 and 50,000. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Statistics of visitors overstaying their authorised period of entry are not available for the year 1 972 or for the period 1 January 1973 to 31 August 1973. Statistics by country of citizenship are, however, available since 1 September 1973 when the 'Easy Visa' system came into operation and are as follows: 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Statistics of visitor visas issued by Australian overseas posts have been consolidated only since 1 September 1972. The statistics are recorded by country of issue only (figures by nationality or place of birth are not available) and are as follows: 
I did read in the Press that a gentleman in the Parliament last night made the absurd allegation that the Government does not have a responsible and realistic wages policy. I understand, if the Press can be believed, that that statement came from the person who poses as the alternative Prime Minister of this country. I notice that the honourable member for Wannon is rather amused at that proposition. I can understand the reason for his amusement and I sympathise with him. The Government does have a very positive, realistic and workable wages policy. For the very first time in 25 years we have a government that has a positive policy on wages, a policy which, if adopted by the Arbitration Commission, will bring about the stability in the economy that the whole of the Australian people are craving. 
What it will do is to index automatically wages to whatever price movements are revealed in the consumer price index so that workers will know in advance what their wage increases will be. It will not be necessary for workers to make exaggerated wage demands based upon expected movements in prices. They will not have to go on strike two or three times a year to get that which will now come to them automatically each quarter if our proposition is adopted by the Commission. In addition to that, each year there will be a review of productivity. Superimposed upon the quarterly increases that will flow from the automatic indexation of the consumer price index will be a further increase based upon a fiat division of the total productivity. This should go to the whole of the labour force. In between these annual reviews and in between these quarterly automatic indexations of wages there will be opportunities to correct any anomalies arising from exceptional circumstances that may come from changed techniques, changed work values or changed work skills. 
The one big question that has agitated the mind of the Government is when indexation will commence. From what date will it operate? I say that because already there are some wage increases that have not been fully dissipated and measured against price movements. Those increases have not yet been fully absorbed. The Government believes that the December quarter ought to be compensated for by giving to wage earners a real tax reduction in lieu of any wage indexation for the December quarter. In this way we will be able to postpone any automatic indexation of the consumer price index until the results of the March quarter are known. That figure would become known to the Government and to the public at large on about 20 April. From the first pay period commencing after 20 April there would be an increase in wages to compensate for price movements. So we would have a substantial reduction in tax to compensate for the price movement in the December quarter, and then there would be the automatic adjustment for the March quarter towards the end of April. This will give employers a breathing space of from today until towards the end of April, with workers being better off in their after tax pay and the employer being required to pay nothing at all in increased wages until about the end of April. This is not only an effective way of guaranteeing that wages retain their value and are preserved from erosion by rising prices; it is also a very effective, common sense and realistic way of dampening down the rate of inflation which would otherwise occur if nothing was done to increase the take home pay after tax, and nothing was done to index wages automatically. 
-Always at the end of every year- this has been characteristic of our society ever since we have had compulsory schooling- there are many young people who are not able immediately to find work. This has always been the case and always will be. It is true that this year there will be more students than there were last year who will not be able to get work immediately. Last year was a boom year. I have had a look at the figures and they show that there was a total increase in the work force last year of 220,000, which is an all-time record. It was a boom year, and those conditions could not possibly have been repeated indefinitely. This Government has done something of which I feel we on this side are all very proud. We have introduced a career reference centre in every one of the main capital cities which, for the very first time, will give these young people an opportunity to have vocational guidance instead of being required to make their own decisions without the proper information as to future trends and future job opportunities. 
The Cabinet, at the instigation of the Prime Minister I am very proud to say, took a positive decision to increase the intake of young people into the Public Service by a total of 1 ,450. A total of 450 graduate clerks and more than 1,000 school leavers will be taken into the Public Service. The Public Service is also offering to increase the number of apprenticeships that it will offer to young people wanting to take up apprenticeships. We have increased the intake from the miserable 50 apprenticeships a year, which I inherited when I became Minister for Labor, to no fewer than 300 apprentices. It will be more this year if my recommendations can be accommodated. We are not happy with the fact that it is not possible any year for everybody leaving school to get a job immediately. 
I always treat with a great deal of respect the views expressed by people of eminence at law such as we just heard. Both the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  and the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  make sensible contributions. I do not want to encourage them too much, but they always give a great deal of thought to what they say and I always listen with a great deal of interest to anything they say. 
Paragraph (n), together with paragraph (m), was a late addition in 1956 to the legislative overhaul of the Stevedoring Industry Act following the Tait inquiry. Following industrial disputes at its Bell Bay site during 1955-56 the Australian Aluminium Production Commission sought unsuccessfully from the Australian Stevedoring Industry Board, as it then was, permission to employ persons other than waterside workers on its stevedoring operations. The Board indicated that the legislation then existing gave the Waterside Workers Federation a virtually absolute monopoly on stevedoring operations. At this time the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Limited had mechanised its bulk handling stevedoring operations in Sydney and was not employing Waterside Workers Federation members. It was proposing to mechanise its Queensland operations and was concerned that the WWF would use or might use the Bell Bay case to force the Colonial Sugar Refinery Company to employ WWF members. The Colonial Sugar Refinery Company at the time wrote to the Government of the day- the Menzies Governmentrequesting a very special exemption from the Stevedoring Industry Act. These representations resulted in the insertion of paragraph (m), which exempted companies with shore based loose bulk handling operations. 
Having agreed to the request of the CSR organisation the then Government inquired as a matter of urgency as to whether other companies might warrant exemption. It ascertained that various companies had long-standing exemptions from the waterside workers award. It appears that paragraph (n)- the one we are now talking about- was then added to section 7 ( 1 ) to give those companies the increased protection of the legislative exemption. At its simplest, the paragraph appears designed to cover those types of companies which already had exemptions from the waterside workers award. The following quotation is taken from the Cabinet clause notes for the 1956 Bill:  . . . shall grant exemptions from the need to use Federation members where the stevedoring operations concerned with the operations of an enterprise loading or unloading at wharves which form part of the enterprise and in relation to which the normal employees of the enterprise will be used. 
Since 1956 situations have developed which were not envisaged at the time paragraph (n) was first introduced into legislation. 
The preparation of this Bill brought attention to these developments. The situations referred to involve companies, especially mining companies, operating away from the major ports. While the legislation intended that these companies could stevedore at their own wharves any type of cargo provided that it was the product of or for use in or in connection with their undertaking and provided that they were using their regular employees, some companies have been making their facilities available to stevedoring cargoes for other persons. An example of this would be a mining company which used the provisions of paragraph (n) to stevedore equipment and supplies needed in its operations, but also to stevedore food, beer and other supplies on behalf of hotels and stores which operated in the same town. 
The 1956 legislation was not intended to cover this latter situation, although it might be possible nonetheless to argue in the case of a company town in a remote locality that these supplies were for use in connection with the undertaking. The companies concerned have naturally expressed anxiety as to the effect of the Bill. However, the Bill is not directed at these situations. It is intended only to clarify the original intention of the Parliament. The Bill carefully and narrowly does only that. The Bill does not extend protection to these new situations nor does it deliberately seek to intefere with any local practice which may have grown up since 1956. The Bill merely seeks to clarify the original intention of the legislation. That intention was that an employer using his regular labour could stevedore at bis company wharf any type of cargo that was the product of or for use in or in connection with that undertaking. The Bill therefore merely confirms the original intention, but does not deliberately do violence to the existing practice. 
The wording of the Bill has been the subject of consideration by the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Waterside Workers Federation of Australia and other unions. It is recognised that the Bill is intended to clarify weaknesses in the legislation which could have serious implications for the stevedoring industry and that it is not intended to disturb relationships outside the stevedoring industry. The wording of the Bill has been the subject of discussion between employers and the Government. Agreement has been reached on all matters of substance and on much of the wording. There were, however, some differences in the preferences given to the words used in some parts of the Bill. Senior legal opinion was to the effect that the words now to be found in the Bill better stated the intention of the legislation but were not in conflict with the phrasing preferred by existing industrial undertakings. The wording of the Bill has been the subject of discussion with the stevedoring industry parties and they are in agreement with its present form. 
I do not intend to speak again on this clause or to say anything when we come to the consideration of the next clause. I conclude by saying that if, as suggested, we were to delete the word 'performing' and replace it with the words 'whose duties include' the situation could work in reverse because if only 1 per cent of the cargo handled by an employer was directly connected with his undertaking or his product, the other 99 per cent of the cargo that had nothing whatever to do with it would then be exempt from the operations of the Act. That would produce the very opposite result from what I am sure the Opposition intends. 
I am not so certain about that. The Attorney-General's Department has said that this is a critical clause. Talks have gone on today between the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and  Mr Fitzgibbon,  I think it is, of the Waterside Workers Federation. The Waterside Workers Federation had intended its  Mr Docker  to come to Canberra tomorrow to discuss this matter with the Opposition Parties and with the Government 
Party. For that reason we had indicated that we would keep an open mind on the matter. If, as a consequence of the talks we have with the Waterside Workers Federation and of the talks which take place between the Federation and the Opposition parties, it is thought that there ought to be some amendment of the Bill or that the amendments which have been moved or circulated ought to be accepted, the Government will be, of course, willing to do that in the Senate. Unfortunately the airline strike has hit the Waterside Workers Federation and its representative is not now able to come to Canberra tomorrow. But I should think that we would have an opportunity before the debate is resumed in the Senate to hear what it has to say and if, as a consequence of that, the Government feels inclined so to do it will move suitable amendments in the Senate. 
Question put. 
That the words proposed to be omitted stand part of the clause. 
There is one problem, at least, that is raised by this amendment. The word 'operations' in the amendment may mean only a job or a particular operation being undertaken on the day the Bill commenced and will not protect anyone for more than a day. If the Opposition wants to protect the existing companies, this wording will not do so. If the amendment were reworded it could pose a legal nightmare. If a new cargo is handled, is this a new operation? If the employer is taken over, is this a new undertaking? The Opposition can see that there are more problems created by the proposed amendment than would be cured by it. This, however, I understand is one matter about which the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  after talking to  Mr Fitzgibbons  - 
-Is it not? Well, he is a funny man. He seems to give  Mr Fitzgibbons  - 
-Yes, he is a strong man but he gave  Mr Fitzgibbons  a different impression from the impression he gave to the honourable member for Wentworth. Perhaps  Mr Fitzgibbons  is dull- I do not know. 
Maybe the honourable member for Wannon is dull. 
-Somebody is, if what the honourable member for Wentworth said is true. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Mr Ellicott's)  be agreed to. 
Funnily enough I did notice this in this morning's newspaper. I take it that the honourable gentleman imagined that I would have seen the newspaper and therefore this really is a question without notice. There has been a very sharp downturn in the output of cars throughout the whole world, mainly because there has been a very much sharper downturn in the demand for cars, or in the capacity of people to buy cars. 
-Will you keep quiet while the Minister is on his feet? The Chrysler company in America has closed 1 3 of its 14 plants for the whole of the December period. The Melbourne 'Age' of today's date carries the headline: ' 140,000 to lose jobs in United States car industry'. That article commences: 
More than 142,000 car workers -almost one-quarter of the US auto industry work force- will be out of work following a Chrysler Christmas shutdown decision announced yesterday. 
The article goes on to say that General Motors has laid off 53,000 workers and that Ford has laid off 18,675 workers in the United States of America. Nobody can say that those workers are being sacked because of tariff decisions because there has been no change in the tariff policy of the United States Government prior to this decision being taken. 
All over the world the car industry is in trouble because it is producing more cars than it is able to find people to buy them. Even in a low wage country like Spain, not affected by tariff policies, the car industry is closing down. Even in the United Kingdom, not affected by any tariff policy, the car industry is closing down. The same is true also of other countries not affected by tariff changes, namely, West Germany, Belgium, France, Italy and indeed all other countries in Europe where the car industry is grinding to a halt without any effect by tariff decisions in those countries. The tariff decision in this country had no effect on the car industry, and I say that quite definitely. I say it because I am entitled to assume or to deduce from what is happening in the car industry all around the world where there has been no change in tariff policy that what is happening there is happening here for the same reason. 
I do not know anything about the paper that the honourable member talks about. 
I cannot respond to that; it would not be proper in this place. This is an odd sort of situation in which I find myself,  Mr Speaker.  The honourable gentleman invents some paper that does not exist and asks will I look for it. The answer is no. 
Yes, I am aware of the fact that the time has expired. The original period was from July last year until July this year. The Government decided that it would be extended further until, I think, 24 January. 
-Yes, 18 January 1975. The honourable member knows all about it; I do not know why he asked the question. That means that anyone who applies up till 18 January next year will be entitled to the full 6 months income maintenance from the time of his application. If it is felt by the time that the deadline of 18 January is getting near that it is proper to extend the scheme for a further 6-months period the Government, of course, will look at the matter sympathetically. 
It does not expire until 1 8 January. 
-Yes, it certainly has. Local governing bodies from all over Australia have written to the Government or to me- I suppose in my Department that means the same thing- saying how much they appreciate the Government's attitude towards this very important matter. We are getting the complete and absolute co-operation of all local governing bodies. Every week we are receiving scores and scores of letters from local governing bodies, sending in well thought out projects to be incorporated in the program. I repeat that I am receiving the full co-operation of all members of the Parliament. Members from both sides of the Parliament have been extremely helpful and extremely responsible and have contributed in no small measure to the success which the Scheme now turns out to be. 
I am one of the few people in the Parliament who know something about primary industry. I was born on a dairy farm and spent most of my life on the land. At a fairly early age I went into the pastoral industry and there gained a first hand knowledge of what happens. At one time I did contemplate studying for the cloth, but I decided that there was more money in dairy farming. I was disappointed. 
-Yes, one pastoral activity to another. You go to the top of the class. I can remember the time when I sold milk for 5d a gallon and eggs for 4d a dozen. So do not let anybody talk to me about rural industries and make it appear that I do not understand and have full sympathy with rural people. My heart is in the land. I have always had a deep sympathy for people on the land. To suggest that I have changed just because I have gone off the land temporarily is incorrect. I will certainly take the question seriously. I will talk with my colleague the Minister for Social Security, and if there is any merit in the suggestion it will be adopted. 
-Yes, I did talk to the Australian Workers Union. I made remarks very much along the lines- not exactly, of course- as the honourable member put them. I never read precisely what is on a prepared paper. I always embellish it, add something to it and make it a bit better. If I find that I can improve on it impromptu, I always do. Of course I am a democratic socialist. I am very proud of that. I have been proud of it for all of my life- some 50 years now. I hope that the day will come when we will have a system of democratic socialism in Australia. 
It is true that I said that we could not introduce democratic socialism immediately. I did not say that we will have to wait temporarily. I said that we will have to wait indefinitely because I could not imagine that it would be possible in the present climate to get the necessary referendum carried to give the Australian Parliament the power to introduce democratic socialism. If the honourable member wants to know what is needed to make it possible, let me say that we will need to alter the Constitution in such a way as to give the people the right by plebiscite to decide which industries are to be brought under public control or ownership. If the people were prepared to alter the Constitution in that way so that as each industry became a burden upon society at large we could then submit the proposition to the people by way of a referendum, I believe that would be the ideal situation. I could nominate some industries right now which would be first-class candidates for being put by referendum or plebiscite to the people to determine whether they should be brought under public ownership or control. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Immigration target for 1973-74 was 1 10.000. 
. (3) and (4) Official statistics of arrivals in Australia prepared by the Australian Bureau of Statistics are not yet available for the complete financial year 1973-74. However, a manual count in the Department of Labor and Immigration of Passenger Cards lodged by persons at time of arrival indicates that some 1 12,960 migrants arrived during 1973-74. Countries of their last permanent residence or selection are shown in the following table: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
) His strong family links in Australia. 
Yes. 
No. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) It is the policy of the Australian Government to provide maternity leave and employment protection on maternity for Australian Government employees in accordance with International Labor Organisation Convention 103. The Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Act 1973 has given expression to this policy by providing maternity leave benefits to certain categories of Australian Government employees. I am informed the categories of Australian Government employees not entitled to these benefits are: 
employees listed in Section 5 (3) of the Maternity Leave (Australian Government Empoyees) Act 1973; 
employees of authorities to which the Minister responsible has, at this stage, not sought to apply such benefits; (in) employees of authorities which the Minister responsible has sought to have excluded from applying such benefits; 
In relation to 1 (i), these categories of employees are specifically excluded from the coverage of the Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Act 1973 and it would be inappropriate to apply the provisions of the Act to them. 
In relation to 1 (ii), the Public Service Board and the Department of Labor and Immigration are currently identifying these authorities and examining the application to them of the Government 's policy on maternity leave. 
In relation to 1 (iii), the Public Service Board and the Department of Labor and Immigration are currently examining the application to these authorities of the Government's policy on maternity leave. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Persons who have been put out of work through Government induced structural change are eligible for income maintenance under the Government's Structural Adjustment Assistance Scheme. The income may be maintained for a period of up to 6 months at the level of the individual's average weekly earnings over the previous 6 months (subject to a ceiling of I  'A  national average weekly earnings). At the same time such persons have available to them the full range of services provided by the Commonwealth Employment Service including training assistance under the National Employment and Training SystemNEAT. 
Between July 1973 when the 25 per cent tariff reductions came into effect and 30 August 1974, 6,261 applications for income maintenance were received by my Department. The number of persons in receipt of income maintenance at 30 August 1974 in each State, by metropolitan and non-metropolitan area was as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed that 
The preliminary results from the August 1974 quarterly population survey conducted by the Australian Bureau of Census and Statistics indicated that females comprised 33 per cent of the total civilian labor force. 
There is no official information available on the percentage of the total wage and salary bill earned by women. However, on the basis of the available statistical information on average female earnings and on the number of female wage and salary earners, it is estimated that approximately 25 per cent of the total wage and salary bill for 1973-74 accrued to females. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The quarterly labour force survey conducted by the Australian Bureau of Statistics, which is based on a sample of households, is one source of regular information on the incidence of unemployment in the Australian community. 
Another source is the Commonwealth Employment Service statistics of the number of persons registered for employment. However, the CES statistics cannot be taken as a comprehensive measure of the absolute level of unemployment as registration with the CES is voluntary and the statistics relate solely to persons registered for full-time employment. 
The preliminary results of the August 1974 quarterly labour force survey which are the latest available, indicate that 2.8 per cent of the civilian female labour force was unemployed. (For source and definitions of the unemployed see Australian Bureau of Statistics, The Labor Force, reference 6.20.) 
Measures for avoiding or relieving unemployment are available to both men- and women without discrimination. These measures include: the counselling and employment assistance of the Commonwealth Employment Service; training assistance under the National Employment and Training System; employment assistance under the Regional Employment Development Scheme; and for those displaced as a direct result of Government induced structural changes, assistance under the Structural Adjustment Assistance Scheme. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
and (3) The major barrier to the implementation of Convention No. 103 in Australia is the funding of any arrangements for maternity leave in the private sector of employment. The Convention stipulates that maternity benefits (cash and medical) are to be provided either by means of compulsory social insurance or by means of public funds and that in no case shall the employer be individually liable for the cost of such benefits due to women employed by him. 
I would also refer the honourable member to the booklet 'Maternity Provisions' No. .10 in the Women and Work series published by the Women 's Bureau of my Department, a copy of which is available in the Parliamentary Library and which sets out in detail how Australian law and practice fall short of the standards contained in Convention No. 103. Although this booklet was published in February 1973, it substantially reflects the current situation with the exception of that relating to Australian Government employment. 
Under the Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Act which came into operation on 1 8 June 1 973, female officers and employees of the Australian Government are entitled to at least 12 weeks' maternity leave on full pay commencing at least 6 weeks before the expected date of confinement and continuing for at least 6 weeks after the actual date of confinement. The cost of the scheme is met out of public funds. 
The subject matter of the Convention is appropriate for action partly by the Australian Government and partly by the States. The Australian Government has introduced paid maternity leave for its own employees as indicated above and the provisions of this scheme are not inconsistent with the Convention. In accordance with the arrangements established between the Australian Government and the States for consideration of unratified ILO Conventions, Convention No. 103 is under examination by my Department and the State Labour Departments. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. In my opening address to the Industrial Peace Conference on 1 1 December 1973 I said the in-depth study had been undertaken 'on the initiative of my Department'. 
and (3) There is nothing further to add to my answer on 30 July 1974 to the right honourable member's related Question Upon Notice No. 365. 
I am informed that: 
1 ) The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
<para pgwide="yes">The monthly statistics of unemployed persons'"' registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service in each State for the period July 1 973 to October 1 974 are as follows: 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following table provides statistics of unemployed persons registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service for each month of 1972 and for the first 9 months of 1974. The figures for 1974 are based on the definition of registered unemployed which applied prior to the introduction in July 1973 of a new definition of unemployed school leavers and are therefore comparable with the 1972 figures. 
The practice introduced on an interim basis in July 1 973 of compiling statistics on the old definition of unemployed school leavers was discontinued in October 1 974 when the Commonwealth Statistician made available seasonal adjustment factors for the new series. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 ), (2), (3) &amp; (4) The detailed information requested is not readily available. It would take considerable time to obtain and I would not deem it proper at this stage to divert the officers concerned with the Regional Employment Development Scheme from their important task of getting the unemployment into employment. However, I am able to say that at 22 November, 68 Commonwealth Employment Service areas and 19 individual local government areas were declared as eligible for assistance under the Regional Employment Development Scheme in view of the level of unemployment in these districts. At the same date projects costing a total of around $ 1 4.5m had been approved or provisionally approved. 
In further general response to the honourable member's question I can say that the majority of proposals received so ar have been put up by local government authorities. A small number has been proposed by community organisations such as Rotary and various sporting clubs and by State Government departments and instrumentalities. 
Each sponsoring organisation is required to administer its own project and to furnish my Department with regular statements of expenditure and brief progress reports. In the case of community organisations they are encouraged to arrange for the local government authority in their area to exercise oversight of their projects. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The right honourable member should be aware that the Department of Labor and Immigration statistics of unemployed are not compiled according to electoral divisions. However, lam informed that the number of unemployed registered at the end of October in the 3 Employment Office areas of Waverley, Boronia and Box Hill, only parts of which comprise the electoral division of Bruce, is as follows: 
Waverley 309; Boronia 687; Box Hill 777. 
Thus the number of registered unemployed in the Bruce electoral division would be less than the sum of the above 3 figures. There is no basis, however, for quantifying it. 
The information in the form requested by the right honourable member is not available. 
Ministerial Councils: Contact with States (Question No. 61) 
I remember quite vividly, as though it were only yesterday, my charge that members of the Opposition were union bashers. Nothing that has happened since we were elected to government has caused me to change my view about them. If anything, I am more convinced than ever that their main purpose in life is bashing unions. If ever the unhappy day comes when they become the government again the unions will learn to their sorrow just how hard members of the Opposition will bash them. There will be no co-operation whatever with the trade union movement under a government led by the honourable member for Wannon or, if he is still there, the Leader of the Opposition. The honourable gentleman referred to the Prime Minister and asked: Is he not the greatest union basher of all time? I would hardly think so. The Prime Minister has to his great record in less than 2 years a string of achievements for the trade union movement which is without parallel in the history of Federation. Let me give a few of them. 
The honourable gentleman has not given me notice of the question so I cannot think of them all. The Prime Minister was responsible for ensuring the carriage through Cabinet of the paid maternity and paternity leave for the Public Service which gave to Australia the distinction of being the first country in the southern hemisphere to give paid maternity leave to its public servants and the first country in the whole world, let it be noted, ever to give paid paternity leave. Who was it who led the campaign for the granting of 4 weeks annual leave? It was none other than the Prime Minister. Who was the one who gave his blessing and active support to the payment of what is known as annual leave loading? Again it was the Prime Minister. Who was the one responsible for having accepted by the Cabinet the proposal to give to the trade union movement of Australia, for the very first time in history, a trade union training college- something which the trade union movement had been calling out for for years from previous governments without any success? 
I could go right through the string of achievements. The greatest one of all perhaps is the Prime Minister's active support for equal pay. Women not only now receive equal pay for equal work but also, for the first time ever, in September of next year will reach the point where the minimum wage, which was previously confined to men, will be applied to them as well. The trade union movement remembers that it was the Prime Minister who actively supported me and encouraged me to take the steps necessary to ratify no fewer than 10 International Labour Organisation conventions in the space of 2 years. The other thing that honourable members ought to remember is that it was the Prime Minister who drew my attention to something which I had missed and which I think everyone else missed. I refer to an amendment put into the Conciliation and Arbitration Act by the Opposition parties when they were in government which precluded the Arbitration Commission from extending the minimum wage to adult females, because the Act specifically made a point of the fact that the Commission could fix a minimum wage only for adult males. 
They are just a few of the things I have been able to think of while I have been on my feet. If the honourable member would like me to do so, I will give a complete list of all the achievements that the Prime Minister has to his credit so far as the trade union movement is concerned. When the history of this man is written the thing that will stand out greatest of all will be what he has done for the trade union movement. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of unfilled job vacancies registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service in the Geelong employment district at end-October was 49 1 . 
I am advised that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Public funds invested in improving working equipment and conditions on the Australian waterfront are provided, in the main, by the various port authorities from their own revenues or by the State Governments. The amount so invested during the last five years is not easily accessible. However, my Department is investigating what information is available. The honourable member will be informed of the outcome of this investigation. 
) See answer to Question ( 1 ). 
Productivity and efficiency are affected not only by investments in working equipment and conditions, but also by other factors, including capital investments in vessels and changed handling methods. It is therefore not possible to isolate the extent of any increase as a result of investment of the nature referred to. 
Statistics collated by the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority show an improvement in the turn around of general cargo vessels stevedored at conventional berths in the port of Sydney between 1969-70 and 1972-73. In 1973-74 there was a substantial deterioration, due principally to port congestion, labor shortages and other factors associated with the sudden steep increase in imports which followed currency revaluations and tariff reductions. 
Convention on the Political Rights of Women (Question No. 1277) 
I congratulate the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  because he has shown that he is a man of enormous resilience. Anyone who could come up fighting like this so shortly after such a crushing defeat as he suffered as the result of the action of his faithful supporter,  Mr Staley,  last Wednesday is a man of undoubted leadership qualities. It is a pity that his supporters have not recognised this. At the same time it is not surprising that the right honourable the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  should be notably absent when this very important matter- or at least we are told it is very important- is before the House of Representatives. If one could anticipate or assume that the right honourable Leader of the Opposition has the same interest in unemployment as has his unfortunate victim of last Wednesday's bout, one would have anticipated that he would have been here, he would have been supporting him and cheering him on, instead of which there is not a sign, neither hide nor hair, of the right honourable Leader of the Opposition. Where is the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  during this discussion of such a terribly important matter? It is so important, indeed, that it is the fourth time this session that somebody from the Opposition side has chosen to take up the time of the House talking about unemployment without suggesting any cures or solutions of the problem. Where is the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)?  He is notably absent too; there is not a sign of him. Neither is there a sign of the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Sinclair).  They are showing their complete contempt for this man of quite outstanding qualities. 
I will admit that if I had been  Mr Staley  and his followers I would have voted for the honourable member for Wannon as Leader of the Opposition. I think he is far superior to the present Leader of the Opposition. He looks more like a Leader of the Opposition than does the present incumbent; I think he has a great deal more intelligence; he certainly has more resilience; and I think members of the Opposition missed a golden opportunity of selecting a leader who could have looked a credible alternative Prime Minister to the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  I understand the point of view of the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman),  who yawned his way through the honourable gentleman's speech. I can understand his apprehension that during the next election campaign his Party has to follow behind the right honourable Leader of the Opposition and see him try to vie with the present Prime Minister on television, in the Press and at public meetings. Of course members of the Opposition are apprehensive and with very good reason. The only thing that I am sorry about is that the team of nearly thirty who supported the honourable member for Wannon last Wednesday has deserted him so quickly. Why have not these members shown the same resilience as he certainly has? 
The only solution that the honourable member for Wannon has mentioned for curing unemployment is that we should increase and expand the economy so that private enterprise will be able to employ more people. However, while he is asking for expansion in employment opportunity the Leader of the Opposition is asking the Government to follow a policy of contraction. He wants less expenditure on the government side. He wants to reduce government expenditure by about 8 per cent across the board, which means that some areas of government expenditure must anticipate cuts of up to 25 per cent if we are to assume that health, education, urban development and other good expenditures are not to be cut by the full 8 per cent across the board target. 
The only matter the honourable gentleman did not mention at length- he skirted over it- was the price of petrol. He said we are in a fortunate position because the price of our oil is much lower than in any other part of the wo but he conveniently overlooked the fact thai if the Liberal and Country Parties had been elected at the last elections the Leader of the Country Party would have screwed the Leader of the Liberal Party- to use that coarse Americanism which the honourable gentleman seemed to gain such delight from repeating a moment ago; and I could not think of anything worse than witnessing that kind of performance- until he agreed to an increase of $4 a barrel for crude oil produced in the Bass Strait. Does the honourable gentleman realise that to increase the price of crude oil by $4 a barrel would increase the price of petrol by $ 1 a gallon at the pump? How is this going to deal with the issue of inflation? How is this going to create more employment? 
We all now admit that the reason for rising unemployment all around the world is, to a very large extent, the decision of the Arab states to increase the price of crude oil by the amount by which the Country Party proposes to increase the price of Australian crude oil. That is the prime reason for the downturn of the economy in the Western countries and it is because there has been this downturn in the economy of the Western countries with whom we have to do business that our economy has been adversely affected. Talk about papering over the cracks! I think I should move to another subject because I might become as coarse, crude and crass as the honourable gentleman was a moment ago if we talk too much about that. 
I invite honourable members once again to join with me in a trip into the official records of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government and to look at the advice it got from its experts. I quote again from a minute which was produced by the Department of Labour and National Service, as it then was, advising the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, who was then the Minister for 
Labour and National Service. The minute is dated 15 September 1971 and it is from the Permanent Head of my Department to the present Deputy Leader of the Opposition. It followed on the minute of 18 August 1971 which I gave the House the opportunity of hearing the last time I spoke. The minute of 18 August states: 
Our view is that the Budget is more deflationary than was necessary . . . It is our view that this overshoots the mark and that the labour market will ease significantly, especially in the second half of the year. 
The minute to the Minister for Labour dated 15 September was in response to the question: 
To what extent are the Government's economic policies responsible for the increase in unemployment that has occurred. 
That was the question put by the then Minister for Labour and National Service in the LiberalCountry Party Government to his Permanent Head. 
-Yes, I am going to put it all in. The reply of the Permanent Head to  Mr Lynch  was as follows: 
We pointed out in our minute of 6 July 1971 - 
This was the third minute in which the Department was warning the Minister for Labour and National Service about the economic consequences of the Budget- that the economy was growing more slowly than productive capacity which was partly due to the January 1971 decision to cut back in Government spending and partly because of the 'psychological war' against inflation by the previous Prime Minister and partly because of the continued tight monetary policy. 
We argued, therefore, in our minute that unless the Budget provided a sizeable stimulus to the economy it would lead to an increase in unemployment. We warned, however, that a positively deflationary Budget would create serious unemployment problems. As you are aware, the Government in fact introduced a significantly deflationary Budget. Our original assessment of its impact is unchanged. We believe it will lead to an appreciable increase in unemployment. If the Government wanted to make certain there was no significant increase in unemployment it should have adopted an expansionary or at least a neutral Budget. It has not done so and therefore must accept responsibility for the increase in unemployment. If the Government's policy of trading a little less inflation for a little more unemployment does succeed it will be ipso facto at the cost of some increase in unemployment. It will be specious - said the minute- to argue that the Government is not responsible for the increase in unemployment. 
Whereas the Opposition's policy when it was in government was deliberately designed to induce unemployment and had nothing whatever to do with an economic downturn in the economies of our trading partners, the present Government's monetary and fiscal policies are deliberately aimed at reducing unemployment, even against the influences of the cyclical economic downturn throughout the western world caused mainly by the increase in the price of crude oil, an increase which the Country Party proposes to inflict upon this country if ever it is elected to Government. 
I first forecast this world wide downturn in the economies of these countries in October of last year at a dinner given by the Employers Federation at the Hotel Canberra. The right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  was present and heard me then forecast what in my view would happen. I was again relying upon the excellent advice given to me by my economic advisers in the Department of Labor. I did this again; I gave the same warning in December 1973. My warnings were ignored by the experts. I was criticised by the spokesman for the Opposition and I was ridiculed by editorial writers in the daily Press. I was accused of irresponsibility by the leaders of the business world. I was right. 
I was right, and all of my critics were wrong. 
I wish it were the other way around. I have never misled this Parliament, nor have I ever misled the public of the realities of the unemployment situation. I say now, as one whose past forecasts have been more consistently right than those of any other authority, that unemployment is caused mainly by . factors outside the control of the Government. To the extent that any Australian Government can act to relieve unemployment this Government has already acted, and the effect of its policies will begin to produce positive results that will increase employment opportunities by June of next year. That is a forecast made by the Prime Minister. It is a forecast that I share. So far the only solution given by the Opposition for increasing the level of employment is, as I said earlier, to reduce Government expenditure by 8 per cent. From the Country Party, the solution is to increase the price of crude oil by $4 a gallon so that we would have to pay $1 or more a gallon for our petrol at the bowsers. 
Let us have a look at whether or not the minute from my Department to the Government of the day said something in isolation. Was it something said to a government that was unaware of what it was doing, was unaware of the path that it was treading, was unaware of the course that it was leading the country on and was unaware of the tragic consequences deliberately caused by it? I turn now to a report in the 'Australian' of 2 1 
January 1972 of a statement issued the previous day by the then Treasurer, the present leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  who is unfortunately still the Leader of the Opposition- unfortunately for Australia, unfortunately for the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and unfortunately for his loyal supporters. The statement was: 
We have achieved what we set out to do in that we have created an environment in which over award payments are depressed. 
A great triumph for the present Leader of the Opposition! It was no accident that unemployment came about during the reign of the previous Government. Unemployment was not caused by outside influences, it was deliberately designed in order that over award payments could be depressed. Is it any wonder that the Opposition parties want to get rid of him? Is it any wonder that they want the honourable member for Wannon to lead them? Is it any wonder that they see nothing but disaster facing them whenever the next electoral contest is held? It is no wonder that they took the course they did, and I congratulate those worthy supporters of the honourable member for Wannon for the part they played in trying to remove the incubus that now rests straddled across the shoulders of the Opposition. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Working Environment Division of the Australian Department of Labor and Immigration conduce an ongoing program of research into personnel practices and issues affecting the quality of working life. The current program consists of 35 studies falling within the following broad areas of interest: 
Organisation development, including worker participation and job enrichment; 
Employee attitudes to work; 
Absence and labor turnover: 
Employee benefits. 
Specific projects in progress or recently completed relating to 'conditions or employment ' include investigations into: 
Patterns of working hours: 
Profit sharing schemes; 
Counselling and advisory services; 
Office landscaping; 
Retirement policies; 
Medical centres and occupational health services: 
Job enrichment programs. 
The results of some of these studies have already been reported in the Personnel Practice Bulletin, published quarterly by my Department The findings of others will be published as they become available. Recently, the Productivity Promotion Council of Australia published a booklet entitled 'Organisation Development in Action' which reports a major study carried out by my Department in Australian industry on advanced organisational practices including job design and development and worker participation in decision making. 
In addition to these specific projects, the Department is responsible for developing detailed guidance to Government Departments and other bodies on the application of a new 'Code of General Principles for Occupational Health &amp; Safety in Australian Government Employment'. This will require continuing research into current practice and standards in such areas as noise, lighting, machine guarding and fire precautions. 
The Industrial Relations National Division of my Department is currently engaging in a program of research into a variety of topics relating to wage fixation, conditions of work and industrial organisations. The program will aim at providing informatioin which will assist in the development of government policy and which will be useful to unions, employers, academics and others who are involved in the industrial relations field. 
In this connection I might add that I have asked my Department to review, as a matter of urgency, the effectiveness of the industrial information service it provides having regard particularly to the requirements of the parties I have mentioned. 
Among papers prepared for special purposes have been a Departmental paper entitled 'Wage Indexation' and a limited first run of a publication on Standard Hours of WorkAustralia and Overseas. The latter publication is being revised to take account of more recent developments in Australia and overseas. 
and (4) The above studies are related equally to men's and women's employment. Last year, however, the Women 's Bureau of my Department undertook a major survey of women's employment, on behalf of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, on 'The role of women in the economy'. The report dealt with such subjects as trends in labor force participation, employment patterns, education and training of women. The Bureau is currently undertaking a pilot study of Federal industrial awards 
For the information of honourable members I present the following paper: Report of the Interim Committee of the Australian Council for Trade Union Training 1973-74. 
I thank the honourable gentleman for his interest in this matter. He has evinced a considerable amount of  interest in the question of Aboriginal employment and I congratulate him for that. There are in the Department 52 positions for vocational officers and of those 52 positions 10 are vacant. There are 25 positions for assistant vacational officers and none of these have been filled because of the staff ceiling which had applied until quite recently. The staff ceiling in respect of my Department has now been lifted because of the very heavy burden that has been thrown upon it through the unemployment obligations of the Department and of the National Employment and Training scheme and the Regional Employment Development scheme. 
I assure the honourable gentleman that there is no discrimination at all against Aborigines. I would be the very first to take appropriate action to prevent it if any evidence were produced to suggest that there is discrimination. There is within the Department an Aboriginal section but the officers of it are attached to the regional offices of the various States in the normal way and they are allocated jobs that are appropriate to their qualifications. We do make a special effort to have a fairly large percentage of the Department's total Aboriginal work force stationed in areas of the States where a fairly high or even a moderate number of Aborigional people are living so that they can have the opportunity of servicing the Aborigines there. I believe that Aboriginal officers are the best ones for handling Aboriginal problems. I conclude by again thanking the honourable member for bis interest in this matter. Now that he has raised the matter, I will ask my Department for a further statement on the current position and what the position is likely to be in the future. 
-Mr Grassby is holding a position of considerable importance with the Attorney-General's Department. It is designed to ensure that migrants in the community are not exploited. He has been instrumental in preventing the exploitation of many migrants. I do not know how many but I think it must be running now into several hundreds. Some of the migrants have been required to pay large sums of money to get, from agencies which have no right to make a charge upon a migrant for this service, an extension of a visitor's visa. Migrants have been able to go to  Mr Grassby  and to ask  Mr Grassby:  'Is it in order for the travel agency to ask me to pay $90 to get an extension of my tourist visa?' The fact that the alert  Mr Grassby  is on the job has contributed in no small measure to the fact that these shyster travel agencies have started to pull their horns in a bit. He has been able to draw to my attention examples of employers who have been employing overstaying visitors at below award rates and have been threatening to expose them if they do not work hard or if they attempt to obtain more money. The alert and very active  Mr Grassby  is there to help them and always does so. 
The establishment of this office was long overdue. What amazes me is that former governmentsthat is, governments before 2 December 1972 -had not realised the problems that migrants had to face. What amazes me is that they did not bother even to think about appointing a person like  Mr Grassby  or establishing an office such as the one that he now hold to do this sort of work.  Mr Grassby  may cut corners to the extent that it is legal and lawful to do so. I dare say he does. He is not a man who fools around writing unnecessary letters or ringing up on the telephone unnecessarily.  Mr Grassby  has always been a man of immense activity, a man of great action. He is not a man who likes to get himself tangled up in red tape. I can assure honourable members that I have studied the work that  Mr Grassby  has done with an enormous amount of interest and great admiration. I have never in my life seen a man do so much work with a small office staff such as  Mr Grassby  has. He has an amazing capacity to get things done. I congratulate the Government on his appointment and I congratulate migrants for having a friend like  Mr Grassby  to whom they can turn. 
-There has been a delay. I acknowledge that. But it is a delay which comes from a desire by the Department to make sure that all ordinary and proper steps are taken to ensure that public moneys are not improperly spent or allocated. We could easily have obviated the delay by adopting a slipshod way of dealing with programs. Rather than do anything which could later be criticised as having resulted in the use of public moneys on projects which were not entitled to be carried out with such money, we thought it better to have some delay and to be absolutely certain that the scheme was above board. We did not want to rush in and agree to things without making proper inquiries. 
Of course one of the problems was that we had a ceiling, as did every other department, beyond which we could not recruit officers. The ceiling was a one per cent recruitment increase. Now that that ceiling has been lifted we will be able to make recruitments fairly quickly. But if we were to recruit 529 officers tomorrow morning it would not be possible immediately to put the 529 new recruits into the sort of work that they would be called upon to do and expect them to understand it. There would need to be some training of them, and this would take time. But at least now we have the authority to make that recruitment. The income maintenance scheme does take a long time to clear up, but it is the kind of scheme which is open to abuse. We have had examples of where abuses have occurred. Even though we have taken great care to see that people who are not entitled to benefit from the scheme are excluded from it, there are still one or two who creep through. Again it becomes a question of- 
-Around about 5,000- plucking a figure off the top of my head. 
-What average wage a week are they getting? 
-Are you talking about income maintenance? 
-Income maintenance, as you would know so well, is not an average figure, but is a set figure of $93.60 a week. So there is no such thing as an average because the figure is set at the average award rate for the previous quarter. 
I beg your pardon. I thought that you were talking at the moment about the National Employment and Training Scheme. The income maintenance scheme is an average rate. I cannot give you the average figure off the top of may head either, I am sorry to say, because it is calculated according to the gross income of the employee for the previous 6 months, and that could range from possibly  $90  or even, in the case of unskilled people as low as $80 up to as much maybe, with overtime, as $200. 1 would not know. 
Yes. That is a very clever interjection and a very good one. Of course, if the pay of people for 6 months prior to their retrenchment included a level of 4. 1 hours a week which was the average rate of ovetime at that time, and if that industry is now reduced to an average overtime rate of 3. 1 hours a week, obviously people on income maintenance would be getting more for not working than those who were still in employment. You are quite right, and it is a point very well taken. 
I would not think that it would be $40 or $50 a week. 
I would not think so. I think that you ought to try to be a bit better with figures in the future than you have been in the past. If your present figures are as far out as your figures were last Wednesday, I think we can say that about $20 a week would be closer to the mark. 
-Yes, I am coming back to you now. You asked about the RED scheme, I think. 
I do not know. I would certainly hope so. The RED scheme has been criticised in Victoria, so the honourable gentleman says.  Mr Hamer  has criticised it. He says that he would like to have the old system under which the McMahon Government would give the State governments a sum of money each month and then not give a damn- I am sorry to say that- not care one iota about where it was spent. If they like to spend it on chipping grass, that was OK with the McMahon Government; but it is not with the Whitlam Government. The Whitlam Government wants something done that will be of some social benefit to the community in the area or region concerned. It wants to see developed areas that will be of some enormous benefit to generations even yet unborn, and that is what we propose to do.  Mr Hamer  has criticised the RED scheme. Even  Mr BjelkePetersen  has criticised it. To my knowledge, there has been one single solitary local governing body that has so far criticised it. I would rather have this scheme operating, under which the local Federal member can inform me whether the project is a worthwhile one so that the Government has some tab on what is being done, than the old scheme under which we gave the money to the States, and the members of this Parliament, from both sides of the House, were completely ignored by the State governments. That is not the way that it ought to be done. 
-Well, Bill, I did not know that. I would like to get back to the final part of the question. Is the delay in approving projects due to having too many committees? I do not think so; and yet it may be. Who can tell? The reason that we set up the second series of committees, that is the State committees, was to meet the criticism of the State Premiers, who said that if there was to be a RED scheme they felt that the State authorities ought to be brought into it. So obligingly we brought them into it by setting up 6 State committees which could vet the schemes at the State level and which could then send their decisions on to the Federal committee which would normally, almost pro forma, agree to them. If the cost of a project exceeds $ 100,000, it is then referred to the RED Ministers. If a project costs less than $100,000, the RED Ministers authorise me to approve of it on their behalf, provided that I report to them at the subsequent meeting what projects I have approved under that power. 
This means that we have streamlined procedures and eliminated all red tape. Schemes now go directly to the State committees and within a day they reach the central committee. They are approved by me that night and on each Wednesday my RED colleagues look at what I have approved and decide whether or not they will endorse my decision. I thank the honourable member for Wimmera for the question. 
For the information of honourable members I present the following papers: Notes of the ninth meeting of Australian and State Labour Ministers held on Friday, 22 February 1 974 and notes of the tenth meeting of Australian and State Labour Ministers held on Friday, 30 August 1974. 
I am informed that the answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 

The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) See answer to ( 1 ) above. 
Department of Defence: Training in Financial and Auditing Procedures (Question No. 350) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
2 ) See answer to ( 1 ) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to question No. 984 appeared in Hansard on 26 November 1974. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised as follows: 
Migrant Visas issued to Persons by Country of Issue 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) On the assumption that the right honourable member is referring to women who have been appointed or promoted to senior positions in my Department since 2 December 1972, 1 am advised that six women, including two who have been promoted to more senior positions that time, have been involved. 
They are: 

 Dr D Yerbury 
Miss A Stephen 

 Mrs P Swanton 
Miss M Hickey 
Miss G Mathieson 

 Mrs M Harrison 
These are in addition to three other women who were already in senior positions prior to 2 December 1972, but who have not been promoted in the meantime. 
(a)  Dr D  Yerbury-First Assistant Secretary, Level 3. Continuously review the operations of industrial relations legislation; formulate policies on national industrial relations issues; develop measures to improve and maintain stable industrial relations. 
Miss A Stephen- Assistant Secretary, Level I. Formulate and implement policies concerning the scope, range and nature of the services and facilities of the Commonwealth Employment Service. (Miss Stephen was promoted from a Principal Executive Officer, Class 10, in June 1974.) 

 Mrs P Swanton- Principal Executive Officer, Class 10. Advise on the implementation of the national policy to eliminate discrimination and to promote equality of opportunity in employment and occupation. 
Miss M Hickey- Principal Executive Officer, Class 10. Review industrial relations legislation, draft new Bills and Regulations, and prepare submissions to Cabinet. (Miss Hickey was promoted from a Industrial Relations Officer, Class 8, in May 1974). 
Miss G Mathieson- Executive Officer, Class 8. Organise and undertake major establishment and organization reviews within the Department. (0  Mrs M  Harrison- Executive Officer, Class 8. Plan and conduct research and investigatory studies into Aboriginal employment, and devise measures to stimulate employment opportunities for Aboriginals. 
National Highways: Committee on Planned Development  (Question No.  251) 
I am informed that the answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2), (3), (4), (5 ) and (6) It has not proved possible for my Department to prepare an answer in detail to the right honourable member's question prior to the rising of the House. Work on assembling the material is proceeding and I will provide the information to the right honourable member by letter as soon as possible. 
I am informed that the answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Feasibility studies, allied with the recent introduction of computer facilities, have indicated that statistics of immigrants arriving in Australia who had relatives already resident here can be efficiently collected. Thus, for the first time, these and other new statistics showing the pattern of relationships involved in nomination schemes should become available during the coming year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (a), (b) and (c) The honourable member will be aware that I did include in my press statement of 8 November 1 974 on the provisional Commonwealth Employment Service statistics for October the numbers employed on projects funded by the Regional Employment Development Scheme who had been recruited from the registered unemployed. It is intended that these statistics, together with the number of persons in receipt of special re-adjustment assistance, will be regularly published in my Department's Monthly Review of the Employment Situation. I also recognise the desirability of regular publication of a comprehensive range of statistics relating to the National Employment and Training System. Some of them could provide an added insight into the labor market and therefore warrant inclusion in the monthly publication. However, most of the information may not have the same direct relevance though valuable for other purposes, nor justify this frequency of publication. My Department is giving detailed consideration to the most suitable ways in which various NEAT statistics and related information might be regularly available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I assume the honourable member has in mind the extension to the private sector of maternity leave in accordance with the requirements of the ILO Convention (No. 103) concerning Maternity Protection. This was the basis on which the benefit was granted to female officers and employees of the Australian Government by the Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Act 1973. The honourable member will recall that during my second reading speech on that legislation I said that if a flow-on of the provisions of the Act to private employers were sought by way of award variation in the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, which would place the obligation on individual employers, the Government would be prepared to intervene and officially oppose it. This is because of the ILO Convention requirement that 'in no case, shall the employer be individually liable for the cost of such benefits due to women employed by him.' It is clear that extension to the private sector requires very detailed examination particularly as to costing; up to the present the whole matter has received only very preliminary consideration. I would also refer the honourable member to my answer to his recent question (No. 1374) on ILO Convention No. 103. 
No. 
See answer to (2). 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since the present Government came into office the only voluntary organisation which has made a request of this nature to my Department is the Safety Engineering Society of Australasia. 
This request of financial assistance was not approved. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (2) and (3) I became aware of Leyland 's employment crises in early October and immediately arranged for my Department to confer with the company. The Director of my Department in New South Wales had several meetings with representatives of the company and established arrangements for the Commonwealth Employment Service to assist the workers concerned. A temporary office was set up by the Commonwealth Employment Service at the Leyland plant so that those retrenched could be offered advice and placement assistance. I should point out that the company has been most co-operative in assisting the Commonwealth Employment Service in its important task. 
I am informed that the answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Copies of press releases issued by the Minister for Labor and Immigration are distributed by hand to the Canberra Press Gallery and to media representatives in Melbourne, by bulk postage to other addresses and by publication in the Australian Government Digest. 
Press releases are distributed to media organisations, Government Departments, Embassies, political party organisations and to individuals and organisations from whom requests are received. The list of names of the latter changes constantly. 
The number of copies circulated depends on the particular content matter but generally copies of press releases distributed on Labor matters approach 3,000, and on Immigration matters 1,900. 
and (S) The costs of producing and distributing Ministerial press releases and numbers of staff involved are not readily available as reproduction units are engaged continuously on producing a variety of printed material. The costs attributable to the press releases have not been separately maintained. 
Australian Public Service: Part-time Employees  (Question No.  1662)  Mr Snedden  asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Does the Government support the recommendation by the committee of inquiry into labour market training (the Cochrane Committee) which reported in May 1974 that the Australian Government should take the lead in extending opportunities for part-time employment by granting permanent status to its pan-time employees; if so, when will this be introduced; if not, why not. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (4) As the Prime Minister indicated in his answer to which the right honourable member refers, the establishment of an office of economic and social research, incorporating a bureau of industrial information within my Department, is under consideration by the Government. Other more immediate matters have resulted in the proposal not proceeding as speedily as I would have wished. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) For a dismissed employee to qualify as eligible to receive income maintenance his retrenchment must have resulted directly from a structural change for which the Government had decided its structural adjustment assistance programme should apply and his former employer must provide him or her with a Statutory Declaration as to the reason for retrenchment. 
The programme of structural adjustment assistance, including income maintenance, is at present available to firms adversely affected by and to individuals who lose their employment directly as a result of : 
1 ) the 25 per cent tariff cut of July 1 973; 
the reduction in tariffs on consumer electronic equipment and components, November 1973; 
the reduction in tariffs on domestic appliances, January 1974; 
the lining of tariff quotas on woven shirts and knitted outerwear, February 1974; 
reduction in assistance to shipbuilding, December 1973; 
dairying industry reconstruction; 
the new plans for the passenger motor vehicle industry recently announced. 
There is no provision in the structural adjustment assistance programme for industries to qualify for retrenchments payments. Firms adversely affected by any of the Government decisions mentioned above may qualify for adjustment assistance. Criteria of eligibility for firms are different to those governing eligibility of individuals. The programme of assistance to firms is at present administered by the Department of Manufacturing Industry. Information provided by that department indicates that as at 20 November 1974, 128 applications had been received from firms in the following industries: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed that ( 1 ) my Department is sponsoring a research project conducted by the University of Queensland, covering the safe design and operation of tractors used for agricultural purposes, and also an investigation and analysis of other rural industry accidents. This project had its origins in a recommendation by the Departments of Labour Advisory Committee (DOLAC) which comprises the Permanent Heads of the Australian and State Departments of Labour. The current programme of tractor research is expected to be completed during this financial year. An Officer of my Department is also contributing to work in this field, as a member of the Standards Association of Australia Committee AG/4 (Safety of Agricultural Machinery). 
Safety educational and promotional activities have traditionally been the province of the State Departments of Labour but my Department has cooperated with State Departments in the production of a series of booklets relating to rural industry safety. The National Safety Council of Australia, which is financially supported by Australian Government annual grants, is also active in this field. Further, my Department and the Productivity Promotion Council of Australia have been approached by a number of interested bodies with a view to staging a series of safety educational seminars and this is under consideration. 
Concerning research, education and safety legislation, my Department works closely with State Government representatives. Co-ordination of activity in these areas is maintained principally through DOLAC (mentioned previously) and meetings of the Committee of Chief Inspectors of State Departments of Labour. By arrangement with the State Ministers for Labour, officers of my Department attend the meetings of the latter Committee which for the past 2 years has been framing uniform model safety regulations and physical working standards based on the best practices in all States. Concerning the Rural Industry (Machine Safety) Regulations drafted by this body, to date New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia have adopted the uniform Regulations and Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania are currently considering their introduction. Arising out of the Report of the National Committee of Inquiry into Compensation and Rehabilitation in Australia, issued July 1974, the Government is considering a number of recommendations relating to the research, education and safety areas. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Interim Committee of the Australian Council for Trade Union Training was established in November 1973. State Advisory Committees have also been formed in each State. The Committees have been meeting regularly and have developed programmes of trade union training at the national and State levels. Some 5 courses of an advanced nature have already been conducted at national level and some 62 courses conducted in the States. 
) See answer to Question ( 1 ). 
Yes. 
Three staff are being sought to organise and conduct training programmes at the national level and 6 staff are being sought to conduct programmes in each of the States. 
Trade union training centres are to be established at the national and State levels. However, it is likely that, as at present, some training courses will continue to be conducted within existing educational and training facilities. 
An Australian Council for Union Training is to be established under the Trade Union Training Authority Bill which it is anticipated will be introduced into the Parliament early in 1975. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) At end-October 1 974 there were: 
3,450 persons registered for employment in the Geelong Employment Office area; 
1,765 persons in receipt of Unemployment Benefit; 
56 persons engaged in employment under the Regional Employment Development Scheme (REDS); 
439 persons in receipt of Special Adjustment Assistance; and 
120 persons currently in training under the National Employment and Training System (NEAT). 
Average weekly costs per person for each of the categories in (1 ) above are not compiled for individual employment office areas. Using the Australian-wide averages the estimated weekly costs for the Geelong area are about: 
$60,000 in the case of Unemployment Benefit payments; 
b ) $ 1 0,000 for employment under REDS; 
$43,000 for Special Adjustment Assistance; and 
$5,500 for training under NEAT. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Commonwealth Employment Service informs the Department of Social Security when a claimant for or recipient of Unemployment Benefit refuses an offer of suitable employment. Suitable employment is denned as work in the claimant's usual occupation or work of a type or nature in which the person usually engages and in which the person's experience, qualifications and training would be used. 
No. 
See (2) above. 
I am informed that answers to the right honourable member's questions are not available in the exact form asked. 
Nominations in favour of the relatives mentioned, which comprise nomination Category A, are lodged in Australia and, if found to be in order, are transmitted to the appropriate post overseas for the necessary examination and approval action. While details are available of the numbers by relationship involved in the nominations so sent overseas, the overseas post records do not differentiate between the various relationships within Category A or between nominations received for action before or after end-June 1974. 
Having regard to these factors, I am informed that the answers to the right honourable member's questions are as follows: 
In the period July to September 1974 nominations within Category A dispatched to overseas posts for action included: 848 spouses; 1,327 dependent children; 775 dependent parents and their children; 719 fiances, fiancees and their children. 
(a) In the same period, with the exception of the United Kingdom, 2,564 nominees within Category A were approved for entry to Australia at overseas posts. In respect of the United Kingdom approvals by category are only available from September 1974, and in that month 138 nominees were approved within Category A; (b) As at 30 September 1974, a total of 6,050 nominees within Category A were under consideration at overseas posts. 
Based on the trends evident to date, it is estimated that in the period July 1974 to June 1975 nominees within Category A included in nominations dispatched overseas are likely to total: 3,392 spouses; 5,308 dependent children; 3,100 dependent parents and their children; 2,876 nances, fiancees and their children. 
Note: These figures do not include an unknown number of nominees of British citizenship, mainly from the United Kingdom, who will only be subject to the grant of a visa after 1 January 1975. 
It is estimated that in 1974-75 in excess of 12,000 nominees within Category A will be approved and will arrive in Australia. 
I an informed that the answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The Home Tutor Scheme is based on voluntary participation both by the tutors and the migrant pupils. A co-ordinating committee has been established in each State under the Regional Director of the Department of Labor and Immigration and involving representatives of the voluntary organisations concerned, the Good Neighbour Council and the adult migrant education sections of the State Department of Education. Tutors and prospective pupils are listed following personal enquiry, through contacts notified by members of the Good Neighbour Movement and the voluntary organizations and through departmental resources (such as welfare officers working in the community). An important facet of the scheme is the matching of tutor with pupil taking into account, amongst other things, compatibility and physical location. At 21 November 1382 migrant women had been enrolled in the scheme and these should all have been matched with tutors by the end of this calendar year. 
Re-training and recall sessions held regularly for the tutors provide the basis on which the effectiveness of the scheme can be evaluated. The primary objective of the scheme is to secure language improvement in the informal situation of the migrant women's home. Equally important however is the extent to which the scheme will encourage the integration of migrant women through the development of personal relationships between tutors and pupils and the assistance given generally to migrant women m adapting to life in a new community. The extent to which personal relationships are developed in this way would be regarded as clear evidence of the success of the scheme. 
Tutors are provided with a copy of the Home Tutor Kit and are given training in its use. Regular recall sessions are arranged for further training and to allow tutors to exchange information on their experiences. The tutors work on a voluntary basis and do not receive any financial remuneration. 
) The number of migrant women in need of home tutoring cannot readily be assessed. They would comprise all migrant women who would prefer to have tutoring in the informal situation of their home as a first step to receiving instruction in the formal situation of classes established in the community. 
I am informed that the answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) The Government has accepted the recommendation of the Working Party established to examine the question of the distribution of certain functions previously carried out by the former Department of Immigration that a Standing Interdepartmental Committee should be established to ensure a continued, co-ordinated and integrated approach to all matters relating to immigration and the welfare of migrants. The Committee is to comprise senior representatives of the Departments of Labor and Immigration, Social Security, Foreign Affairs, Education, Customs and Excise, Media, Housing and Construction and Prime Minister and Cabinet and will be chaired by the Department of Labor and Immigration. It is expected that the Inter-departmental Committee will be set up as soon as the transfer of functions already in train is completed. In the meantime liaison has been established where necessary with other Departments to ensure that the interests of migrants will continue to be properly served. 
Mercury Levels in Fish  (Question No. 1215) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The policy of the Australian Government is to support a 35-hour week only in those industries which have sufficient capacity to absorb it. The Government's attitude to claims for shorter working hours is determined on each occasion by the circumstances of a particular industry, including the history of the industry, the degree of automation and mechanisation and other relevant factors. Where these factors apply the Government has intervened and will in the future intervene before the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to give its full support to a union claim subject to appropriate provisos. In the recent application for a 35-hour week in the electricity supply industry, these provisos were: 
that the unions give their full co-operation in carrying into effect any reorganisation, re-rostering, retraining or recruitment of new labor that is called for in the transitional period to the shortened work week; 
that the unions give undertakings that there will be, in the transitional period and otherwise, no threat of industrial action and no resort to industrial action in respect of any industrial disputes that arise over reorganisation, re-rostering, retraining or recruitment of new labor due to the award of the shortened work week; 
that the Commission is satisfied that a shortened working week coupled with such reorganisation, rerostering and recruitment of new labor will not be attended by the working of additional overtime at penalty rates over and above what is now worked, other than during the transitional period; and 
that the Commission is given unequivocal and credible assurances by the unions that overtime will not be sought by employees over and above the levels of regular overtime now worked and that, if it is so required by the employer respondents, a reduction of present levels of overtime, if any, will be suffered and tolerated. 
It will then rest with the Commission to determine whether and, if so, when, a shorter working week would operate in a particular industry. The ultimate aim is to secure a 35-hour working week in circumstances which will ensure fair treatment of all sections of the community. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2 ) An examination of the records of Employment Offices in areas where textile manufacturers are located has shown that no vacancies for Machine Minders, Loom Tuners or Textile Mechanics have been lodged by employers in recent months and that the offices concerned have no vacancies registered in these categories. 
and (4) The policy of the Government is that recipients of Structural Adjustment Assistance, more commonly known as Income Maintenance, are subject to the 'work test', in the same way as claimants for or recipients of Unemployment Benefit. Income Maintenance payments, which are based on the individual claimant's average earnings over the previous six months, and which can be paid for a maximum period of 6 months, can be terminated if the claimant declines to accept suitable employment offered to him by the Commonwealth Employment Service. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) In 1972 240 Iranians came to Australia for settlement. In 1973 the number was 229. This year to September 122. 
No specific increase is contemplated. The level of immigration from Iran will depend upon- 
the size of any year's program and 
the number of applicants from Iran who meet the entry criteria then current. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Arrangements have been made for the priority processing in Cyprus of people there, sponsored by friends and relatives in Australia, who have been displaced from their homes as a result of recent events in the island, and who are living in difficult circumstances. 
This operation is not confined to females. Certainly a number of single women will be included among those to be processed. 
It was initially suggested that there could be some 2,000 single women in need of resettlement, but enquiries have indicated that the number is likely to be considerably less than this. Only about ISO names have been submitted to date. 
A selection team from the Australian Embassy, Athens, is already in Cyprus dealing with people sponsored from Australia. 
The acceptance of Cypriots under these arrangements will not be dependent upon the grant of refugee status. 
To qualify for priority consideration, an applicant will need to have been sponsored from Australia, to be displaced, and to be living in conditions of severe hardship. 
Movement, in general, will be under arrangements made by the sponsors or their nominees. 
The Australian operation in Cyprus is confined to the priority examination for visa issue of nominees sponsored by friends and relatives here. 
It is understood that the Cypriot authorities have arranged emergency accommodation for those who require it. 
As visa applicants in Cyprus will have been sponsored by friends or relatives here their post-Australian arrival accommodation will be with their sponsors or in accordance with arrangements made by the sponsors. 
Yes- where the girls form part of a family group which has been sponsored and which qualifies. Young girls sponsored for unaccompanied movement will be accepted only subject to parental consent and provided that acceptable arrangements exist with regard to their accommodation and welfare. The responsibility for this will rest with the sponsor. 
These people from Cyprus will be entitled to the same assistance as is extended to other migrants. In general, except for children in family groups, they will be adults or near adults. 
The question of legal responsibility only arises in respect of those under 18 years of age. If a young woman under 1 8 years arrives in Australia other than in the care of a relative or is not joining a relative who will accept responsibility for her, legal guardianship is vested in my colleague, the Minister for Social Security under the provisions of the Immigration (Guardianship of Children) Act. 
I am informed that the answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (4) The following list includes details of all formal committees, councils etc., that have been established which enable me or officers of my Department to maintain contact with State Government Ministers or State Government officers: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 )  Mr Foster  has undertaken a wide range of valuable work since joining the Department. This has involved extensive industrial relations liaison and included investigation and reporting on the grievances of seasonal workers in the Wee Waa and Narrabri districts of New South Wales, representing the Department at meetings and conferences in relation to Stevedoring and Sea transport in Darwin, inquiring into aspects of future waterfront employment in Portland, and making extensive enquiries into certain aspects of the Stevedoring industry throughout Australia. 

 Mr Foster joined the Department on 1 9. 1 2.72. 
His salary is $12,721 per annum and he may receive any allowances that are normally payable to Australian Public Servants at his particular classification. 
When the normal approving officer is unavailable he can authorise his own travel on official business in an emergency. 
No. 
He has one room within Regional Headquarters at 99 Currie Street, Adelaide. This accords with the normal provision for staff at his level in State offices. 
Departmental records indicate that  Mr Foster  has been absent from South Australia for approximately the following periods to 3 1 July 1 974: 
I am informed that the answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) For many years a range of booklets has been provided in 17 languages to inform prospective migrants overseas about living conditions in Australia. Migrants have been asked to study these booklets and to bring them to Australia, where copies are also available at offices of the Department of Labor and Immigration for further reference. The publications distributed to prospective migrants are: 'Australia' 'Assisted Passages to Australia ' 'Your Journey to Australia ' 'Customs and Quarantine in Australia' ' Migrant Accommodation in Australia ' 'Employment in Australia' ' Housing in Australia ' ' Education in Australia ' 'Health and Social Security in Australia' ' Wages, Prices and Taxes in Australia ' ' Health Insurance in Australia ' 
Newsletter, 'What's Happening in Australia?' 
Three booklets- 'Australia', 'Employment in Australia', and 'Wages, Prices and Taxes in Australia'- give information on such matters as hours of work, pay scales, industrial arbitration, annual leave, workers' compensation, unemployment and sickness benefits and trade unions. 
For distribution in Australia, a leaflet, 'English in Industry', has been produced to encourage employers to conduct English classes for employees in factories and other places of employment and to encourage migrant workers to join these classes. 
A handbook, 'Tools of Trade', has been produced to help migrant tradesmen to identify the main tools of their trade. (3), (4), (5) and (6) Information on the total number and cost of each booklet printed and distributed in Britain and other migrant source countries in the past 26 years is not readily available. 
However, in 1974-75, the estimated cost of printing information booklets in English for prospective migrants overseas is $130,000 and, in 16 other languages, $250,000. In addition, about $15,000 will be spent on printing booklets on opportunities in the professions in Australia. 
Fifty thousand copies of the leaflet, 'English in Industry' were printed in 1974 at a cost of $831.71 and distributed widely in industry. The leaflet was printed in English. Arabic, Turkish, Greek, Italian, Serbo-Croat and Spanish. 
Fifty thousand copies of the third- and current- edition of the handbook, 'Tools of Trade' were printed in 1971 at a cost of $8,000. The handbook was printed in English. Turkish, Greek, Italian, Serbo-Croat, French, German. Dutch and Spanish. Copies have been distributed overseas to migrant tradesmen before departure, to other migrant tradesmen in Australia and also have been used in English language instruction. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The latest figures for the end of November 1974 arc expected to be available within a few days and I shall advise the honourable member of them as soon as possible. 
It is not possible to provide precise answers to questions 2 (a) and 2 (b). The Commonwealth Employment Service does not know the period for which applicants and recipients of income maintenance will be unemployed because under the Structural Adjustment Assistance scheme persons are eligible to receive income maintenance for a maximum of 6 months, or until they commence employment, whichever is the sooner. Furthermore, those who find or are placed in employment before the end of this 6 months period at a rate of pay less than their calculated income maintenance entitlement are eligible to receive the difference between their income maintenance entitlement and their new rate of pay. 
$1 1.8m has been appropriated in 1974/75 for Structural Adjustment Assistance: If this amount proves to be insufficient, then additional funds will be sought. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) (2 ) and ( 3 ) Further to my answer to part ( 3 ) of Question No. 564 (Hansard. 19/9/74 at page 1622). the remaining State has agreed to ratification of ILO Convention No. 100 and the instrument of ratification will be lodged with the Director-General of the International Labour Office on 10/12/74, the 26th anniversary of the adoption by the UN General Assembly of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to ( 10) I refer the right honourable member to the answer given by the Minister for the Media to a similar question (No. 1581 ) addressed to him. This answer appeared in Hansard on 4 December 1974 page 4590. 
I am advised as follows: 
I ) Details of persons sponsored for entry to Australia are initially recorded by the nationality of the nominee. Numbers of persons sponsored according to their country of residence are only available for the period October-June 1973-74 and represent persons included in nominations provisionally approved for processing overseas. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Of the 46 persons named in the answer to Question No. 1 169, 13 were temporary public servants prior to the dates given. Their names, approximate length of service as temporary public servants and positions occupied at that time are as follows: 
New South Wales 
J. Gillard, 2 years, 2 months, Mail Officer. 
A. McDarmont, 11/2 months. Clerical Assistant. 
R. Morgan,81/2months, Clerk. 
Victoria 
M. Lambert, 1 month, Clerk. 
C. Percival, 2 years, 6 months, Clerical Assistant. 
Seymour, 7 months, Clerical Assistant. 
A. Street, 2 months, Clerk. 
Queensland 
R. W. Parker,1 month, Clerk. 
J. Perks, 1 month, Clerk. 
South Australia 
G. Millowick,101/2months, Post Officer. 
Western Australia 
B. Ainsworth, 1 year,1 month, Communications Officer. 
M. Grist, 3 months, Clerk. 
R. Quinn, 3 years, 6 months. Clerical Assistant. 
The approximate period of time between employment as a temporary public servant and appointment as an Arbitration Inspector in each case is as follows: 
J. Gillard, 2 1 years, 1 month. 
A. McDarmont, 8 years, 8 months. 
R. Morgan,1 year. 
M. Lambert, 8 years, 10 months. 
C. Percival, 22 years, 7 months. 
Seymour,11 years, 10 months. 
A. Street, 9 years, 3 months. 
R. W. Parker, 3 years, 6 months. 
J. Perks, 9 years, 1 month. 
G. Millowick, 2 1 years,1 month. 
B. Ainsworth, 26 years, 5 months. 
M. Grist, 6 years, 5 months. 
R. Quinn, 27 years, 5 months. 1 am now informed that some errors have been found in the information provided in answer to Question No.1169. These result mainly from different interpretations placed on the date of appointment of officers where in some cases dates of seniority in the third division appear to have been quoted. The correct dates of permanent appointment to the Public Service of the eight officers concerned is as follows: 
D.J. Gillard, 11 November 1954. 
H. Heaney,7Dec. 1964. 
A. McDarmont, 2 April 1965. 
F. Sprod, 1 8 February 1 959. 
A. Street, 22 March 1965. 
R.Claffey, 1 8 July 1962. 
B. Ainsworth, 27 August 1 948. 
R. Quinn, 1 7 January 1 950. 
Pursuant to section 125 (8) of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904-1974 I present a report on the operation of section 125 of that Act for the period from 1 January 1973 to 30 June 1974. 
No one can be absolutely certain that methods which a country may adopt to prevent criminals from entering the country will be 100 per cent successful. This Government has continued the practice of its predecessors of vetting all applicants for resident status in Australia to a point at which it is as near as possible to say that successful applicants are free of any criminality. As a consequence of the easy visa system, when this vetting of people who pretended to be coming here only for a short visit as tourists was lifted, many people entered the country on a tourist visa who would not have entered if the visa had been one for permanent residence. For that reason, among others, the easy visa system has been scrapped. We are now reverting to the previous system under which we will vet very carefully all who wish to come here whether as visitors or as permanent residents. Some criminals have entered the country, most of them during the previous Government's term of office. They are being rounded up, wherever we can find them, and deported. I am not saying that no criminals have entered the country since this Government came into office. There was the famous case of  Mr Thomas  Utter about whose criminal record I told the House some time last year. There will always be some. We will continue to do everything physically possible to prevent them from entering the country. 
This is the first time since the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party became the Opposition that the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has not been the one to raise the question of the unemployment situation. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  apparently no longer trusts the honourable member for Wannon to put the position succinctly enough. It seems that the honourable member for Wannon has not got very much faith in the Leader of the Opposition either. When the Leader ofthe Opposition was looking around the House and drawing attention to the members who were not present, I looked around the Opposition side of the House and I found that among those who did not stand when those supporting the discussion were asked to stand was the honourable member for Wannon who until now has been looked upon as the expert on labour matters on the other side. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)There is no substance to the point of order. The honourable member will resume his seat. 
-That makes the position even worse. He now admits- I did not know it until he made the admission- that he was not in the House when this matter was raised. I want to come now to the matter before the House. The Leader of the Opposition made great play of the fact that I would resign or that I said I would resign if unemployment exceeded 250 000. What a stupid, irresponsible thing it would be for a government that believes in full employment to resign and hand over to a government that believes in unemployment. How silly and irresponsible that would be. It would almost border on criminality for me, who believes in full employment, to resign and hand over the reins of governments to the honourable member for Wannon whose party, when previously in government, supported unemployment. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In April 1973 I introduced into this House a Bill to make a number of important amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Included in that Bill were provisions designed to remove existing barriers to trade union amalgamations and provisions relating to certified agreements. When this first Bill went to the Senate that chamber took the extraordinary step of rejecting the Bill at the second reading stage thereby refusing to give proper consideration to the merits of any of its clauses. The Government was therefore faced with the question of whether it should reintroduce its original Bill intact or remove from the Bill those sections which the Opposition seemed to think were controversial, namely, provisions eliminating penal sanctions and those protecting organisations and their members from certain tortious liabilities, so that the remaining important provisions could be proceeded with as a matter of urgency. The latter course was adopted and I introduced a second Bill in the House in August 1973. This was eventually passed on 13 November 1973 but only after considerable alteration by the Senate, including amendments and deletion of provisions concerning certified agreement, and almost complete rejection of the amalgamation provisions. I commented at that stage: 
I must say on behalf of the Government that it is a bitter disappointment to me that the Senate saw fit to reject the 6 clauses dealing with amalgamations because one of the things that is plaguing industrial relations today is the demarcation dispute which arises as a result of having too many unions and which cause employers to be the innocent sufferers and  by-standers  in these stupid inane disputes over which union shall cover which particular occupation. This tragedy- and it is nothing less than a tragedy in industrial relations- will never be resolved until the Parliament alters the Act in such a way as to make it easier for the unions to amalgamate and thereby to reduce the number of unions. 
I accordingly introduced a new Bill relating to amalgamations in July of last year. It is now industrial relations history that in September 1974 the Senate rejected the Bill without allowing debate on a single clause. That act of wanton obstruction, of attempted destruction, has not deterred the Government in its endeavours to achieve the enactment of the important industrial relations measures for which that Bill provided- the removal of the barrier set up by the joint Liberal-Country Pary Government to prevent amalgamations of unions registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
This Bill is exactly the same as that rejected by the Senate last September. It contains nothing that is revolutionary or even extraordinary. What it proposes is the dismantling of barriers to amalgamations deliberately erected by the previous Government. The arguments for encouraging amalgamations have now been canvassed several times in the Parliament. The merits of those arguments are obvious to all but the most obtuse, and I intend to spend only a little time mentioning some of them. Although the number of trade unions in Australia has been slowly declin-ing-375 in 1956 to 305 in 1972 and to 294 at the end of 1973- the figures still show a large number of separate unions representing small groups of employees. 
This Parliament is privileged to have in its precincts tonight a distinguished visitor from Sweden, namely, the Managing Director of Orrefors. This gentleman comes from a country where the number of trade unions has been limited to a number that makes the number we have look absolutely ridiculous. It is because the Swedish labour system is so much superior to ours that the Swedes are able to boast of a very much greater and better industrial relations record. The official figures show that, of the 305 unions in existence in 1972, 158 had less than 1000 members; another 82 of the unions had between 1000 and 5000 members; 28 of the unions had between 5000 and 20 000 members; 23 had between 20 000 and 50 000 members; and only 14 unions in a country of our size with a population of 13 million people had a membership of over 50 000. The figures show also that, of the 294 unions at the end of 1973, 226 had a membership of fewer than 5000 members and 103 unions had a membership of fewer than 500 members. 
In my second reading speech on 12 April 1973 I said: 
Grave defects attend this dispersal of working people throughout such a large number of separate organisations. There is unnecessary duplication of work. Salaries paid to officials of great energy, dedication and talent are low and unattractive and discourage men of quality from making the sacrifices that a career as a trade union official often involves. The population base from which the leaders are drawn is often small. Demarcation disputes concerned with protecting the revenue and membership of a union threatened with loss of coverage by encroachments of other unions are a common occurrence in this country. Too much time is lost through disputes over which unions should handle a certain job. 
I would hope that the honourable and distinguished honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street),  who is leader of the other side of the House at the moment and who takes such a keen interest in this matter, will listen with great attention to what I am saying. I know that his heart is in the right place and I am sure that if the Tories and reactionaries who seem to run his Party at the moment would only listen to his advice on this matter this Bill could fare better this time than it did before. 
My speech continued: 
The mobility of trade union officials from office to office is sometimes restricted by rules which require officials to be drawn from among longstanding union members only. The cost of libraries and research staff- essential for good quality industrial leadership- is frequently beyond the resources of small unions. Even the cost of assembling the members and officials in conference is too much for some unions frequently to bear. Discussion and policy making in tune with the needs of the members always suffer when the members and their leaders cannot frequently consult each other. 
The formation of larger unions will provide a significant part ofthe answer to these problems. I recognise that a stage could be reached in the size of a union where possible disadvantages might outweigh any additional benefit. I concede that. I realise that unrestricted growth could eventually result in a situation where a union's officials cease to have rapport with the union's members and lose awareness of their needs and aspirations, where the energy and devotion of union officials could become absorbed in the material advancement of their union as an institution to the detriment of its members ' welfare. I appreciate that the complexity in relationships and communication that attend size could result in loss of direction and, perhaps, inertia. But these problems are not a necessary concomitant of size. However, these are not the problems that bedevil the Australian industrial relations system. We have too many unions with too few members. We have too many inefficient unions. We need in Australia today fewer and more efficient unions. 
Well, the concept of industry unions is something that I personally support strongly. But it will be a long time before Australia moves to the position where it will accept industrial unions as the honourable member has mentioned. But it is a desirable objective from my point of view. I believe in it. But we are a long way from getting that ideal situation. I doubt very much whether employers will thank the Opposition for its continued obstruction of these reforms. Employers want fewer and more efficient unions. They do not want 303 unions, some of them small and inefficient but very obstructive; they want fewer unions.  Mr Polites,  the spokesman for the National Employers Association wants to see fewer and more efficient unions. After all, the employers derive considerable benefits from the formation of larger unions. Frequently several unions are parties to a single award or agreement, as is the case in the metal industries or in the Australian Post Office, where something like 24 separate unions operate to cover the various people employed in the PostmasterGeneral 's Department alone. And often there is a multiplicity of awards and agreements which operate in single establishments. 
Amalgamation of organisations will operate in this situation not only to reduce the number of unions parties to single awards and agreements but also to limit the number of awards and agreements applying within single establishments. Negotiation and agreement on industrial matters would also be facilitated if the employer had to deal with only one or two unions instead of, as is often the case today with larger employers, with a number going into double figures, each one operating under different rules and procedures and not necessarily common policies. I remember the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee),  when he was the leading light in the Chamber of Manufactures, telling me that on one occasion he had had to sit down at a table and talk with the officials of 14 different unions about an award to cover one industry. What could be more absurd, what could be more debilitating than this? One needs to look no further than government instrumentalities to get an idea of the number of unions one employer has to deal with. I have already mentioned the Postmaster-General's Department. Workers in the Sydney Mail Exchange are covered in the one building by no less than 20 unions. It is utterly absurd and it ought to be remedied. The work force of Trans- Australia Airlines is covered by no fewer than 26 unions. The men and women employed by the Commonwealth Railways, a small enterprise by railway standards, belong to 14 different unions. 
It is no wonder that in February 1972, before the introduction of the legislation which erected the present barriers to amalgamation, the then  president  of the Metal Trades Industry Association issued a Press statement stating that he would be informing  Mr Lynch,  my predecessor, the then Minister for Labour and National Service, that the MTIA would be opposed to any action by the then Government which sought to prevent the amalgamation of 3 metal unions which was in progress. The statement said that, far from objecting to the amalgamation, the MTIA saw many practical advantages for industrial relations in the metal industry. Specifically mentioned were the reduction in the number of unions with which the MTIA and its members would have to deal and the elimination of costly demarcation disputes in which the real sufferer is the helpless employer, who has to sit on the sidelines watching his industry go down the drain while the members of 2 unions fight over who will do what job. 
-That amalgamation did, but not before  Senator Greenwood,  your leader in the Senate, did everything he could, even at the last minute, to prevent the amalgamation from being brought to finality. Because your  Senator Greenwood,  acting on instructions from the National Civic Council and  Mr Santamaria,  who seems to dominate  Senator Greenwood's  thinking on everything, was the one who wanted to prevent the amalgamation of those 3 metal unions. The joint Liberal-Country Party Government took fine care not to prevent that amalgamation, so it paid hp service to the Santamaria-ites who wanted to prevent the amalgamation, but in the end was able at least to let that one go through. But it was able effectively to prevent the amalgamation of the building workers unions, which at that time had both completed secret ballots of their members to arrange for the amalgamation of the plasterers union with the Building Workers Industrial Union. That amalgamation was prevented by what I describe as a snide amendment to the Bill then before the House in the Committee stages. It was a disgrace and nothing for the then Government to be very proud of when we reflect upon the way it prevented that amalgamation from being brought about. Similar care was not taken in the interests of the employers and employees. 
There is also the area of primary importance, that is, the national interest. The benefits to unions, employees and employers already mentioned that would flow from fewer and larger unions would go a long way towards a more efficient industrial relations system, one which would be conducive to a substantial improvement in industrial relations. More specifically, in the longer term a relatively small number of unions could effect a reduction in the number and frequency of wage claims and, I think it is reasonable to suggest, a consequent moderation in the rate of wage increases. With nearly 300 unions, our industrial relations area is in a state of constant ferment, with unions making claims, negotiating agreements or undertaking arbitral proceedings to bring their members' conditions up to parity with or to improve upon wage rates obtained by other unions. Wage claims are made in such numbers and with such frequency that it is extremely difficult for union officials or anyone else to know whether a union's claim will maintain the members' wage position relative to that ofthe members of other unions or will comprise the initial bid in a new round of wage increases. If the only effect of amalgamations were to lessen the number and frequency of wage claims, that in itself would be a significant improvement on the present situation. 
The Bill that I now present provides a contained code for amalgamation and the procedures for amalgamation are very much simplified. There would be no mandatory requirement for an officially conducted amalgamation ballot in the case of each organisation concerned in a proposed amalgamation. A organisation will have the option of conducting the amalgamation ballot internally according to its rules or of seeking its official conduct, if that is what the organisation wants. Its official conduct may also may be sought by a specified number of members of the organisation where the committee of management has failed to formulate an amalgamation proposal. For acceptance of the amalgamation there will no longer be a requirement that 50 per cent plus one of the members must vote, nor that 50 per cent plus one of those voting must favour the proposed amalgamation. A majority of financial members voting formally will be sufficient for the acceptance of the amalgamation. The cost of officially conducted amalgamation ballots will be borne by the Australian Government. Exemptions from ballots may be granted by the Registrar to the organisation remaining in existence, that is the host organisation, after amalgamation, where it possesses a membership at least 20 times that of the deregistering organisation, unless the Registrar considers that there are special circumstances by reason of which the exemption should be refused. If the nurses union wanted to join the boilermakers union, we would say that the boilermakers should not be forced to accept the nurses as part of their union, to come along to boilermakers' meetings and to decide how much dirt money a boilmaker should get unless the boilermakers also had a right to say whether they wanted nurses to attend the meetings of the boilermakers. 
Under the Bill the following steps will be involved in the procedures for amalgamation: The committee of management of each organisation concerned will be required to resolve upon the proposed amalgamation and accept a scheme of amalgamation; the publication of the proposed amalgamation in the Press and in the journals of the organisation concerned; the scheme of amalgamation will be filed with the Industrial Registrar; the existing procedures in relation to the registration of organisations and the alteration of rules of existing organisations will then apply and, under these, objections may be lodged on specified grounds; a determination by the Registrar of the application following a hearing; conduct of the ballot or ballots; and if the proposed amalgamation is to proceed, the carrying out of the necessary formal steps of registration, alteration of rules and deregistration. 
I refer honourable members requiring any further details on the clauses of this Bill to previous debates, especially the Committee debate on 3 1 July last year. I should remind honourable members that the continuation of the 1972 amalgamation provision means that Australia is not honouring its international obligations. Australia has ratified International Labour Organisation Convention No. 87, 'Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise', and it did so on a commitment to undertake amendments to the amalgamation provisions which prevent the Convention from being implemented. This most undesirable state of affairs has to be brought to an end. The truth of the matter is that there was no reasonable justification for the erection of the present barriers in the way of amalgamations. Some little time before the introduction of the enabling legislation in 1972 the then Minister for Labour and National Service, my predecessor,  Mr Phillip  Lynch, referred to this matter. It would do members of the House well to listen to this quotation although there is only one Opposition member present, with another who seems to be half asleep. Let me remind the one who is listening of what  Mr Lynch  said: 
 I think it is fair to say that providing the membership of industrial organisations does not lose effective control as a result of amalgamations there are many advantages which can accrue from amalgamation. 
For instance there are some 300 unions in Australia. Most of them are very small. It could facilitate the functioning of the arbitration system and relations generally between employers and unions if this number of unions decreases . . . 
That is the end of the quotation, and I agree with  Mr Lynch.  Those barriers were erected to placate the hysterical fever of certain former members of 
Parliament and their supporters. I refer to the Democratic Labour Party in particular, but its supporters are no longer with us so we ought not to worry about them. Their fear was too unreasonable to permit any consideration of the enormous benefits to unions, the enormous benefits to employers and the enormous benefits to the community that could flow from amalgamations of unions. 
They feared that larger unions might also be more militant, using their industrial strength in reprehensible ways. That would be, of course, a possibility. I do not rule it out but if we are to allow our every thought or action to be influenced by the possibility that some unwanted consequences might follow it is doubtful that we could bring ourselves to the point of daring to act at all in anything at all. Size and militancy are not automatically concomitant. The Australian Workers Union is one of the 2 largest unions and few would disagree with its reputation for conducting its industrial affairs in a moderate manner. Many people would say it is too moderate but no one can say it is too militant. On the other hand, that same fear blinded its holders to the fact that comparatively small unions with members employed in carrying out functions whose continued operation is vital for the economic or social wellbeing of the community can exercise industrial strength out of proportion to their numbers. Time and time again we see examples of this. 
I suggest that the importance of the Bill's provisions merits the response of reasonable consideration rather than blind prejudice. The Government's firm commitment to the provisions of this Bill is endorsed by the general support given to amalgamation by leaders of both sides of industry and by industrial relations experts both here and overseas. In West Germany there are only 16 unions covering the whole of the unions in a country with 6 1 million people. One of them, the Metal Workers Union, has a membership of 2 070 000. The 1974 statement on Employment and Industrial Relations Policy endorsed by both the Country Party and the Liberal Party said:   the multiplicity of unions and the spread of certain unions through many industries make the task of consultation and negotiation more difficult with problems of one union unnecessarily flowing to others. 
This Bill gives members of those parties an opportunity to do something constructive about these matters and about the problems to which they very rightfully pointed their fingers. The Government regards it as imperative that this Bill be passed and I invite honourable members on both sides of the House to support it. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
It is very difficult,  Mr Speaker,  with the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  breathing down my neck and telling me to finish my speech by reading one page when I have 10 pages before me. 
-But we want to put it on the record so that when a double dissolution is brought on, if there is one, we can show the people what we said about it at the time and what sort of a reasonable proposition it was that the Opposition decided to reject. 
This Bill is concerned exclusively with industrial agreements. Its principal provisions can be summarised as dealing with the certification of agreements, their operation and cancellation. They are integral elements ofthe Government's industrial relations policy. The primary objective of that policy is the promotion of an industrial relations system that will be the most efficient possible in providing harmonious and mutually satisfactory industrial relationships. The Government is trying to make good the results of the neglect, ineptitude and harm in the field of industrial relations that characterised the time in office of the joint Liberal-Country Party Government. It is trying to provide a system that will be able to accommodate the needs of the future. 
There are people who find it difficult to adapt to changes occurring about them. Others, out of the depths of their pessimism, fear change. For some of these people, as things are so they must remain. Others even try to turn back the years and resurrect the practices of days gone by. This attitude is particularly prevalent when alterations to the industrial relations system are proposed and I suggest that in this area it has more success in preventing improvements than in most. It is an attitude often expressed in the sentiment that our conciliation and arbitration system has served Australia well for more than 70 years. Implicit in that view is a basic assumption that a system designed to deal with the kinds of industrial relations problems that occurred at the end ofthe 19th century and which, in fundamental aspects, has remained substantially unchanged since then, is adequate to deal with the industrial relations problems arising in the eighth decade of the 20th century. It is a fallacious argument. 
In 1904 Australia had a rural economy and a comparatively small work force which, in the main, had little education and its expectations of something better were depressed by its experience of the legal and economic constraints from which it was struggling to become free. The trade union movement was in its infancy and for many people, including many employees, it was far from respectable. Today Australia is an important manufacturing country utilising sophisticated technological processes serviced by a highly skilled workforce. Unions are recognised to play essential roles in shaping the economic and social life of the community. They draw their members from all walks of life: Scientists, accountants, nurses, engineers and doctors as well as the shearers- I was a shearer before I entered Parliament- seamen and waterside workers who did so much for the development of trade unionism in Australia. Nevertheless, our conciliation and arbitration system remains essentially the same as it was 70 years ago. 
When the provisions of this Bill were last before the Parliament it was said: 
The Bill recognises the wide and increasing incidence of voluntary agreements. Of a total of 800-odd federal awards, approximately 500 were arrived at wholly by agreement. Many of the remaining 300 incorporate agreed portions. Thus the Bill responds to the needs arising from this industrial environment by providing procedures both facilitating agreements and their operation according to their tenor. 
I endorse that statement. It was maintained by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that the fact that these agreements had been reached within the conciliation and arbitration machinery is an argument against change. It was also maintained that the Bill's provisions- which do no more than recognise the existence of that trend and facilitate its development according to principles which will benefit not only the parties but the community- are part of a scheme to bypass and weaken the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. These assertions reveal the Opposition's usual fumbling lack of appreciation as to how the industrial relations system and the conciliation and arbitration system really work. 
The Conciliation and Arbitration Act does not set up, and was never intended to set up, machinery through which claims had to be channelled for approval or disapproval. I realise that members of the Opposition hold this view of the function of the Commission but it is a mischievious and even dangerous misconception. The Commission is set up to prevent or settle disputes and the need for conciliation or arbitration by the Commission does not arise unless the parties to an industrial relationship cannot reach agreement on the terms governing the continuance of that relationship. In 1904 it was natural that unions looked to the Court of Conciliation and Arbitration for protection. They were impoverished and their members were poor and uneducated. All the advantages of money and power then lay with employers. It is understandable that in the circumstances pertaining in the first half of this century unions may have developed a habit of looking to the Court. However, the trend towards agreements indicates that this is no longer the position. Unions now have self respect and the respect of others. They have acquired a status in the community. Their members are often well educated- in the case of some unions, extremely well educated. The majority know that they can now treat with employers on the basis of equality. They no longer regard the Commission as a source of protection or as some sort of authoritarian 'Big Brother', but view it, as I suggest it should be viewed by all, as the proper place for parties to receive assistance when they cannot resolve a matter between themselves. This Bill will not result in the Commission being bypassed or weakened. It should not be necessary to point out that the Bill retains the requirement that agreements be certified by the Commission. What the Bill does do, is to reflect the need to adapt the Act to accommodate the changes that have occurred. We cannot afford to close our eyes to those changes. If we do, we run a very real risk that the Commission will be of increasingly less relevance. We must not let that happen. 
The attitudes of some union officials need to change also. Today people in general are not as willing as they once were to accept decisions that are unilaterally imposed. We all are aware, or should be, of the considerable evidence that people now feel more strongly than ever before that they have the right to a voice in the making of decisions that will affect them. Probably one of the clearest examples of the expression of that desire is in the field of education. Parents, teachers and also students are concerned about the quality of education and believe that they have constructive contributions to make on improvements to our education systems. Another example, this time in the field with which we are now particularly concerned- industrial relations -is that unions are asserting, and it is becoming generally accepted, that where capital and labour are co-operating in an enterprise, there are legitimate interests of employees entitling them to a voice in the management of that enterprise at least to the extent that those interests are involved. 
It should, therefore, be readily understandable that rank and file union members are not willing to endorse agreements that union officials have decided are in the best interest of the members but which do not take account of the real needs and desires of members because no one has thought it necessary to try to find out what the members are thinking. If fixed-term agreements are to be that in fact as well as name, it is essential that rank and file members be consulted and kept informed on the progress of negotiations and account taken of their wishes. Their involvement must be such that they can recognise that the agreement provides the terms and conditions they are seeking or a compromise acceptable to them. 
It is quite unrealistic for anyone to think that where such basic matters as wages and other important conditions of employment are concerned, trade unionists will be willing to accept less than they believe to be reasonable and fair. It is quite unrealistic for anyone to think that trade unionists will abide by fixed-term agreements which they believe, after weighing the pluses and minuses', provide for less than is justly due to them. It is quite unrealistic for some trade union officials to continue to assume that the rank and file will abide by decisions in the shaping of which they had little or no part. It is quite unrealistic for those trade union officials not to share the process of decision making with the rank and file because of fears that their authority will be usurped by shop stewards: they must have more regard for the views of members at the shop floor level and recognise that shop stewards are an important, even essential element, in the process of identifying and transmitting views and ideas from the rank and file to union management and vice versa. It is unrealistic for employers to disregard the obvious fact that an agreement reached with union officials might not be observed if the rank and file have not been involved in the substance of the negotiations and fail to co-operate with union officials in designing procedures which will enable the rank and file to be involved in the negotiating process. 
It is fortunate that there are many trade union officials today who welcome democratic controls and processes. Regrettably, there are some who do not. One of the purposes of the provisions proposed by this Bill is to encourage those officials to democratise the decision making processes in their unions in relation to proposed agreements concerning the members' conditions of employment. I believe that one's attitude to this Bill will depend upon one's personal philosophy. A person with a liberal philosophy would favour it, a person with authoritarian inclinations would probably prefer an alternative approach to a solution to industrial relations problems. The question that has to be decided is really this: Is it preferable for matters to be resolved by agreement of responsible and knowledgeable parties to an industrial relationship with full freedom to determine for themselves the most appropriate ways and means, or should free consideration of the matter be circumscribed by the forced intervention of, and procedures prescribed by, a stranger to that relationship? I suggest that if the answer to that question favours the first alternative, it necessarily follows that the provisions of this Bill should be approved in their entirety. 
This Bill is in terms identical to those of the Bill rejected by the Senate last September. As to certification it provides: 
That prior to certification, the member of the Commission is to be satisfied that the principal terms of the agreement are acceptable to the majority of the financial members of the organisations affected by the agreement; 
Where he is not so satisfied, he may direct the conduct of an official ballot in order to ascertain the views of those members; 
That the Commission shall not refuse to certify an agreement unless its certification would result in a major detriment to the public interest; 
For a single member of the Commission to certify agreements which contain matters previously reserved for a Full Bench only; 
For the reference of an agreement by a member of the Commission to the  President  where the member believes that its certification could result in a major detriment to the public interest; the  President  is then empowered to determine whether the matter should be considered by a Full Bench. 
In connection with the first proposal, the last time the provisions of this Bill were before the House it was said that these provisions would weaken union leadership and 'union leaders would have no authority or incentive to make anything stick'. In fact, their effect will be precisely the reverse. The knowledge that the Commission, if it is not satisfied that the terms of the agreement are acceptable to a majority of the union's members, may direct that a ballot be held, will be a strong inducement for union officials to ensure that agreements made by them reflect the wishes of the members. Union officials would not willingly allow themselves to be caught in a position which revealed a lack of rapport with the members they were elected to represent. Accordingly, they will be forced to establish and keep open effective lines of communication with their members. This will increase their knowledge of day to day union affairs which, in turn, should increase their confidence in their right to act authoritatively in their dealings with others both in and outside the union. Having entered into negotiations, armed with up to date information on what is expected of them by their members, they will be able to give undertakings and enter into agreements confident that the undertakings and agreements will not be disowned by the rank and file. Having entered into an agreement with the knowledge that it reflects the wishes of the majority of union members, they will be in a very strong position in their dealings with members who may be reluctant to abide by the terms of the agreement. 
The remaining 3 provisions mentioned go no further than is necessary to permit employers and unions themselves to determine the form of the relationship they want. They are aimed at striking a reasonable balance between the need to facilitate agreements and the need to protect the public interest. To be effective in reducing industrial unrest it is essential that employers and unions should be able to negotiate with reasonable certainty that whatever agreement they reach will stand. It is therefore important that the Commission should not be able to withhold certification because of some minor consideration. It is equally important that they should be able to negotiate and agree on the whole range of matters relevant to their relationship. Negotiation is a matter of give and take and the process just could not operate satisfactorily if one of the matters of main concern had to be excluded from the discussions. 
The Bill also provides that limitations on industrial action may be included in agreements only where the limitations apply to industrial action against the settlement terms ofthe agreement. Provisions in agreements extending to industrial action taken in relation to matters not covered by the agreement are to prevent the certification ofthe agreement. Whether agreements are negotiated with terms limiting industrial action is for the parties themselves to determine. The Government does not set out to stop that. However, we do want it to be made abundantly clear that what is being prohibited by the agreement is a strike against the settlement terms that are dealt with specifically in the agreement and not other matters outside the agreement. Opportunities should not be afforded to parties to go beyond the spirit and intent of agreements and to capitalise on open-ended commitments unwittingly entered into by parties to the agreement. Should this occur, there will be a reluctance in future to enter into agreements. 
As to the operation of certified agreements, the provisions of the Bill are designed to ensure continuity of coverage of employees' entitlements and to encourage the timely re-negotiation of agreements. A certified agreement is to operate for the period specified in the agreement. Thereafter it is to continue to operate until one of the parties acts to bring about its cessation. The Bill provides for the giving of notice by a party to the Registrar, 30 days after which the operation of the agreement is to cease. Prior to the cessation of its operation, all other parties to the agreement are to be advised of its impending cessation. This procedure will enable a party to cancel an agreement when it no longer represents that party's wishes, whereas under the existing legislation an agreement can never be cancelled by one party alone. It can of course be cancelled by the agreement of all parties and by order of the Commission but, short of those 2 situations, once made there is no way of getting out of a registered agreement at the present time. The agreement continues ad infinitum. On the other hand, this procedure also gives a warning of 30 days to the parties concerned for renegotiation of their agreement in the knowledge that if they do not do so, the area concerned will be award free at the end of the 30 days. Continuity is thus placed in the hands ofthe parties themselves. 
Finally, there are provisions concerning the suspension or cancellation of agreements by a Full Bench of the Commission where a party has repudiated the agreement by persistently contravening its terms. This again reflects the Government's belief that agreements freely entered into should be honoured by the parties concerned. If one party does not do so, it would be quite unfair for the other parties to continue automatically to be bound by the provisions of the agreement already repudiated by the other party. 
The successful negotiation and operation of industrial agreements is absolutely crucial for the survival of our conciliation and arbitration system. The Government desires to encourage such agreements as a means of paving the way for some co-ordination in the presentation of union wage claims and of achieving moderation in wage claims and as a rational alternative to industrial strife. It should be seen as inter-related to the Bill on amalgamations. The 2 Bills complement each other in assisting to achieve 2 major objectives of the Government: The rationalisation of our industrial relations system and a dampening of inflation. This is an important Bill. I commend it to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
Pursuant to section 70 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904-74, I present the eighteenth annual report of the  President  of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for the year ended 13 August 1974. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) I refer the honourable member to the answer given by the Special Minister of State to a similar question (No. 1862) addressed to him. This answer, which appeared in the House of Representatives Hansard on S December 1974 contains the information requested in the above question addressed to me. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (4) There has never been any doubt that the weekly training allowance payable under the NEAT scheme is to be taxable. This principle was recommended by the Cochrane Committee and accepted by the Government. The Government's decision was conveyed to my Department by me personally as soon as it was taken. 
My Department was advised that an amendment to Section 23 (z) of the Income Tax Assessment Act was desirable to give a sound legal basis for the application of this principle. As will be appreciated, the legal position under taxation law is often not entirely clear. At the end of September it was informed that amending legislation to provide for the taxing of full-time training allowances was in preparation and that the Department would be required very shortly to commence deductions. This information was conveyed to me. 
As the amendment had not been effected when NEAT was introduced on 1 October 1974, it was believed by my Departmental officers that in its absence, tax deduction instalments should not be made. I was, however, unaware of this appreciation of the situation. 
Subsequently, in the light of the confusion that had occurred, there were further discussions between  Dr Sharp  and the Commissioner of Taxation. The Commissioner advised that, while he thought a precautionary amendment to Section 23 (z) of the Income Tax Assessment Act should be made, he did not regard that Section as exempting the NEAT allowances from taxation. He said, therefore, that the allowances should be subjected to tax instalment deductions forthwith. This advice was conveyed to the Directors of my Department in each State and instructions given that tax instalments should be deducted from NEAT allowances forthwith. 
I am informed that there were approximately 10 000 persons in training under NEAT at 1 December 1 974. 
I am informed that about 15 000 applications for training were received to 1 December 1974. 
, (8), (9), ( 10), ( 1 1) and ( 12) I am informed that precise answers to these questions are not available. However, preliminary analyses indicate the following: 82 per cent of persons approved for training were not employed at the time of making their application; 19 per cent of persons approved for training were redundant from their previous employment; about 50 per cent of persons approved for training were women (including widows) returning to the workforce; about 9 per cent of persons in training at 1 December 1974 were Aborigines. 
and (14) I am informed that no statistical information is yet available concerning the average period of training approved for different categories of workers under NEAT nor the proportions undergoing full-time or part-time training. However, at the beginning of December approximately 5000 persons were in full-time training, approximately 3000 persons were in part-time training, about 500 persons were undertaking correspondence courses and approximately 1500 persons were training on the job. These figures include persons whose training was approved under previous schemes prior to the introduction of NEAT. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) There were 7905 persons receiving income maintenance at the end of December, 1974. The industries from which these individuals were retrenched and the number retrenched from each industry at that date are shown in the following table: 
I did not hear all of the question asked by the acting Leader of the Opposition. But I can say to him that I am seeing  Sir Mortice  James, the British High Commissioner, on this matter this afternoon and the honourable member would know it would be quite discourteous for me to deal with the question - 
It would be quite discourteous for me to discuss this matter in view of those circumstances. If the acting Leader of the Opposition will renew his question tomorrow I shall be very happy to answer the whole range of queries contained in the speech he made just a moment ago. 
-Yes, early in the life of the second Whitlam Government - 
-No, early in the life of the second Whitlam Government there was a change made in the work test by the Minister for Social Security,  Mr Hayden. Mr Hayden  took the view that the previous work test was quite unacceptable to the Australian people. It required that married men should leave their homes and go long distances away from where they lived to take work where it was offered to them. He did not believe it to be right that families should be broken up in this way or that work situated long distances from a married man's home was an appropriate offer in those circumstances. Because of the humanitarian attitude that my colleague the Minister for Social Security has on all these matters, he perhaps did go just a little too much on the side of humanitarianism. But that is the nature of the man. 
However, it is also his nature to apply a commonsense attitude to a problem when it has been shown that abuses could follow from the change that was made. When I put it to my colleague that abuses were occurring as a consequence of the changed  work  test he accepted with alacrity the proposition I put to him that there ought to be some tightening of the work test, and he did that. In fact, he did it just before the last Federal election. I remember it so well. It is true to say that most of the examples of bludging, to use a term that I do not very often use, have been eliminated, but it is impossible, under any system that you could care to name, excepting one that would do incalculable harm to genuine cases, to eliminate all cases of bludging. We are doing our best and we will continue to do so. 
My weekend statement referred to what was alleged to have been a proposition put by  Mr Arch  Bevis, the Federal  President  of the Transport Workers Union of Australia, in which he is alleged to have said that the rate of unemployment benefit should be reduced. What I said in respect of that was that I did not think it would be right to reduce the rate of the unemployed benefit. In other words, it would not be right to punish the thousands of genuine cases in order to get at one or two people who were work shy.  Mr Bevis  has since made it clear that he made no such statement at all, that he was not advocating a reduction in the unemployed benefit. The unemployed benefit in Australia is the best in any pan of the world where there is unemployment. We lead the world in the rate of unemployment benefit we pay, and for that we have to thank my colleague the Minister for Social Security, who succeeded in having the unemployment benefit put to the same level as the pension benefit and repatriation benefit. 
I do not know how many visas, if any, have been issued to the representatives of North Vietnam and the other countries that the honourable member mentioned. There may not be any. I do not know of any. I am not saying there are none, but I do not know of any. Therefore I cannot deal with that part of the question. 
-When would you like that? 
-The reason for refusing a visa to the cricketing gentleman, I think the honourable member is talking about, is that this Government is utterly opposed to the South African Government's policies of apartheid. We believe that all human beings are brothers, that they are equal and that anyone who discriminates against another human being because his colour is different or because he belongs to a different race or nationality is antiChristian, anti-democratic and anti-Australian. 
-Yes, there are considerable delays in paying people the amounts to which they are entitled under the income maintenance proposals. There are also considerable delays occurring in processing applicants for the National Employment and Training Scheme. The delays are due to the fact that the Department of Labor and Immigration is determined that it will see that there is no slipshod manner of handling both of these matters. The Government cannot afford to be careless or reckless in the way it administers a law which deals with the distribution of the taxpayers' money. It is regrettable that some delay has occurred. But if we were to take the short cuts that would have to be taken to prevent the delay honourable members opposite would have a right to accuse us of being recreant to our duty to the taxpayers. 
The number of people seeking NEAT assistance far outstrips the capacity of the Department to process the applications. The Department is heavily overworked. People are working in Commonwealth Employment Service offices almost until they drop, and in a few cases that is literally true. The number of unemployed has increased, according to the Opposition, considerably over the last few months. We have had superimposed upon that the requirement of income maintenance. The Regional Employment Development Scheme and NEAT have been superimposed upon my Department's normal work. We have now had permission from the Public Service Board to recruit another 529 officers. The Public Service Act requires that certain formalities be observed in recruiting labour. Applicants have to be interviewed. There can even be appeals against their appointment. Then they have to be trained. All of this is going on right now and not until the recruitments and the training are completed can we expect any improvement. 
-The answer to the first question is yes; to the second it is no; to the third question it is no, and the rest of the questions become irrelevant. 

 - Mr Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on the Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill (No. 2) 1974 as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 2 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The Government did not see a copy of the amendments until just a few seconds ago. 
-They are different from the ones that were submitted 6 months ago. 
-Therefore the Government has not had an opportunity of studying the amendments. I can say without very much study that the Government would reject outright the second amendment which has been proposed by the honourable member for Wannon. 
I was impressed by the remarks of the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee),  who very rightly pointed out - 
I cannot remain silent in the face of the exaggerated, unfair and quite false allegations about - 
I read the book about Mount Isa and used to have to put it down every few seconds because I could not control my laughter. The author talked about his speaking to somebody with 'a twinkle in my eye', whatever that means. 
-No. But the author said: 'Bert Huntley indicated that they wanted me to call a meeting for Saturday the 1 6th to give a report and to exchange views. I asked him what does that mean with a twinkle in my eye.' He must have had a mirror in front of him when he wrote the book or when he had the interview. On another occasion he said that he looked around the room and he saw a lot of comms sitting around in cliches. If honourable members think that is not what is written in the book I suggest they borrow the book from the Parliamentary Library- I suggest they do not buy one- and they will see that the author stated that I told somebody something with a twinkle in my eye. They will see that the author said that he went to a union meeting and he saw communists sitting around in cliches. The book on Mount Isa was written by this man with whom the honourable member for Wannon seems to have so much in common. 
-He pulled the honourable member's leg again when he told him that. 
-He has been pulling the honourable member's leg for a long time. The honourable member told us last time we debated this legislation that Edgar Williams told him he would not have a bar of it. I think that Edgar Williams, if he had any views to express, would have expressed them to me. I am the Minister. The honourable member is not likely to be the Minister in the future. He might be Prime Minister one day, if he lives long enough. The present Prime Minister looks extremely healthy to me. Judging from today's question time the present Opposition leader, I think, is about to be put over the high jump at any time. But good luck to the honourable member for Wannon; he went close last time and I only hope that next time he has better luck. I return to the subject of the debate. To say that the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union would keep the names of those who applied for postal votes is a dastardly untruth. It is not a lie because the honourable member probably knows no different, but it is a dastardly untruth to say that.  Mr Chairman,  the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  believes that I have completely routed or 'rooted' the honourable member, as a leading official of the AWU once said. 
-The member was reading a report of mine which talked about how Pat Galvin had routed Harold Wells of the Miners Federation. As he read it out he mispronounced it. He said that Pat Galvin completely 'rooted' the members of the Miners Federation. He was reading a report in which the word was spelt 'r-o-u-t-e-d '. 
Question put: 
That the amendments  (Mr Malcolm Fraser's)  be agreed to. 
-I can only assume that a soldier in the Citizen Military Forces is being paid the same amount as was fixed by the previous Government of which the honourable member was a very prominent and influential member. I am quite certain that my Government would not have reduced the amount. Of course, this is a matter for the Minister for Defence. 

 -Mr Speaker, there is some guttersnipe - 
For the information of honourable members I present the first report, in 2 volumes, of the National Population Inquiry, entitled: 'Population and Australia- a demographic analysis and projection'. 
-It is not usual for Inside Canberra' to publish stories that are not accurate, and usually its publishers show the courtesy of coming to the Minister concerned to verify whether allegations are true. On this occasion that was not done. Had the publishers of the newsletter taken the normal precaution which they usually take in matters of this nature they could have been spared the indignity of being described publicly as publishing a ridiculous, stupid statement that has no substance at all in fact. The honourable member for Leichhardt has been very active in relation to this matter. He has succeeded already in getting approval for no fewer than 30 separate RED projects in his electorate, amounting to a total cost of $1,354,600. I am led to believe by my intelligence information that in the case of the Johnstone Shire, which is the one which was brought to the attention of  Mr Whitington  or the gentleman who wrote the article in 'Inside Canberra', an application was made for Sim to meet the cost of kerbing and guttering which had been displaced as a result of the Queensland floods.  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  refused to give the shire any money because it has a Labor controlled council, so the council believed that it might get the money by coming to the RED Ministers. It is not the purpose of the RED scheme to pick up the tab when the Liberal and Country Party Premiers refuse to give a local governing authority what it is entitled to receive just because the people of that area happen to elect councillors who do not happen to be members of the Country Party. The RED Ministers eventually were able to find ways of giving $83,000 to that shire. But it is not the function of the RED scheme to meet the cost of expenditure of this sort, amounting in this case to $lm; it is primarily the responsibility of the Queensland Government- not the Australian Government. 
This is a very serious question we are debating now. It involves the question of parliamentary privilege; it involves questions that touch upon international relations; it involves the whole question of onus of proof. The honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  was good enough to make the concession that initially I acted correctly. I thank him for that concession. 
I believe I did act correctly initially. I believe that any sensible decent person would agree with the honourable member for Warringah that I acted correctly initially. I will show, by what I will reveal now, that I have acted correctly ever since.  Mr Stonehouse  first came into this country in November. He returned again in December. He was not aware, when he first came into the country, that an exemption was given to British parliamentarians. The Press gave him that information. 
I am not blaming the Press. The Press evidently sees it as the duty of the Press to inform people of their rights, to inform people like  Mr Stonehouse  of the various loopholes that exist in the law that might enable them to make plans to fit in with the loopholes. The honourable member who made the opening address here on 1 5 February said: 
I believe the Australian people require an end to this situation one way or the other. If we cannot see any positive action taken by the Minister to bring this about then we will act. 
I ask the honourable gentleman to say what action I should take. This man has not committed a crime against Australian law. No charge has been laid against him of having committed a crime against British law. 
-He has committed an offence against the law of Britain in that he obtained a passport by false or fraudulent means. The British Government has the right to take action against him under 2 Acts of the United Kingdom Parliament. One is the Criminal Law Act and the other is the Forgery Act. Any offence under the Criminal Law Act of Britain does not become an extraditable offence even if proven but it does become an extraditable offence if a person is convicted of an offence under the Forgery Act of the United Kingdom. 
The United Kingdom Government is faced with the dilemma that since the Forgery Act was first put on to the statute book the Act has never been used in respect of this kind of offence. This kind of offence normally would be dealt with only under the Criminal Law Act of the United Kingdom and that would not help to obtain extradition. The British Government has been told by  Mr Justice  Murphy, as he now is, that the Australian Government will co-operate fully with the British Govenment in extradition proceedings, even to the point that contrary to general tradition if a first application for extradition failed the Australian Government would not raise any veto against a subsequent application or applications. This is in spite of the fact that only very recently the British Government did raise a veto against an Australian application for extradition following a first unsuccessful application. Notwithstanding that, the British Government has been told that the Australian Government will not raise any veto against any number of applications for extradition. I have since talked with the new Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  on the matter and he has reaffirmed the decision taken by his predecessor, the then  Senator Murphy. 
I spoke to the High Commissioner for the United Kingdom,  Sir Morrice  James, about this matter. I wanted to know whether there was any truth in reports stating that the British Government would begin extradition proceedings against  Mr Stonehouse  unless the Australian Government first took action to deport him.  Sir Morrice  told me that according to the information available to him there was no truth in these reports. I then told  Sir Morrice  that the Australian Government would co-operate fully with any request it received from the British Government. It is true that under section 8 of the Migration Act all members of Commonwealth Parliaments have immunity from the provisions of the Act in respect of having to produce an entry permit. It is also true that the British House of Commons has not for many years expelled a member except where the member has committed an offence which attracts a penalty of 6 months imprisonment.  Mr Stonehouse  therefore cannot be expelled on that ground either. Again it was the Press that was able to tell  Mr Stonehouse  about this loophole, as it turned out to be. At the very time when  Mr Stonehouse  had made up his mind to resign from the House of Commons it was the Press that was able to inform him that it was highly unlikely that the House of Commons would have the power, or if it had the power would exercise the power, to expel him. 
It so happened that it was on 15 January 1975, a long time ago now- I again, unfortunately, have to reveal this and it will help  Mr Stonehouse  to know it, but it would not have had to be revealed today if it were not for the action taken by the Opposition in this matter; however I am not going to be made by my silence to appear to be hiding something or to be sheltering  Mr Stonehouse  when I am not- that directions, and I can now say this in my own defence, were issued to my Department that immediately  Mr Stonehouse  ceased to be a member of Parliament he was to be given 3 days to get out of the country voluntarily and if he did not leave the country within 72 hours of his ceasing to be a member of Parliament he would be deported. That is the instruction. That is on the file of my Department. 
-Issued by me. That is something I did not want to have to disclose, but I have a choice now of either not disclosing it and proving that I am not doing what it has been suggested I am doing- that is, sheltering  Mr Stonehouse  and preparing to give him permanent residence here- or revealing the fact. 
-It is open government; fair enough. But  Mr Stonehouse  now knows that once he ceases to be a member of Parliament he has to get out of this country. He now knows, as a result of this debate, that he has to make plans accordingly. He now knows that since that is the option that he has he cannot afford to wait any longer than that time. I was hoping that I would not have to tell him this until he ceased to be member of Parliament; but he now knows, as a consequence of this debate. 
Mention has been made about his having attended a psychiatrist and the suggestion, I think, is heavily weighted along the line that this is just a farce and is being put forward only to try to gain public sympathy. Therefore I have to divulge the following report from the records in this file from the Commonwealth Department of Health, which I did not want to do: 
The detailed psychiatric report on the above patient by  Mr G.  N. Gibney has been studied. It is considered that this man has had a mental breakdown which has resulted in a depressed and paranoic state of mind. The breakdown is due to him overloading himself with responsibility beyond his capability to handle in his political and business life. To this has been added the extra strain of things beyond his control going wrong. One result of this illness has been certain irresponsible acts without proper heed of the consequences in order to try to escape from his troubles. At no time is it considered he was sick enough to come under section 16 of the Migration Act. However, his mental illness is such that he fails to satisfy medical criteria for permanent residence and rejection is accordingly recommended. The prognosis with treatment is considered to be good and he would tackle less responsible work efficiently. 
That report was dated 29 January- 14 days after I had decided that he would not be permitted to stay here anyhow. So it is not just some trick on the part of Stonehouse of pretending, as has now been suggested, that he is sick when he is not sick at all. 
Something was said about why I did not take action against Stonehouse under section 27 of the Migration Act for having produced to an officer for the purpose of securing entry .into Australia a passport which was obtained by false representation. A conviction under this section would not automatically render Stonehouse liable to deportation if he was otherwise legally in Australia as a member of a Commonwealth Parliament as he is. It would, however, provide grounds on which action could be taken. Other notable cases involving the same offence include that of  Mrs Charmaine  Biggs, the wife of Ronald Biggs, who was not prosecuted and was allowed to remain in Australia by, I think, the honourable gentleman who will follow me in this discussion, the honourable member for Barker. Another case was that of Thomas Charles Utter who was not prosecuted by me but was deported by me as a prohibited immigrant. That will be the fate of  Mr Stonehouse,  M.P. once he ceases to be  Mr Stonehouse,  M.P., unless he leaves voluntarily. Utter had a very serious criminal record;  Mrs Biggs  did not. The optimum time for instituting proceedings has already passed. I am sorry, it was the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  who took the decision about  Mrs Biggs.  I am indebted to the honourable gentleman's efficient former secretary for correcting me. It was not the honourable member for Barker. That is good. I like to have the record straight. It was 

 Mr Lynch who let  Mrs Biggs,  the wife of the train robber, stay here. 
The optimum time for instituting proceedings has already passed but in principle action would still be possible. If action were instituted Stonehouse would probably be granted bail after a preliminary hearing and this might encourage him to leave the country surreptitiously and to disappear. He will probably try to do that now that he knows as a consequence of this debate that on 15 January I gave the instruction that he would be deported if he did not leave voluntarily within 72 hours. Of course I can make a declaration under section 8 of the Migration Act that it is undesirable that he be permitted to remain in Australia. Such a declaration which can be made by the Minister or an authorised officer would cancel the exemption that he now enjoys as a member of Parliament from having to have an entry permit and he would become a prohibited immigrant. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-The Hansard record continues: 
-We stopped that practice - 
That is of back dating the files- as soon as we took over from you. At my direction my personal secretary last week requested or approached the honourable member for Warringah . . . and offered to allow him to go through the whole of the Stonehouse file. He declined the invitation. 
A little later  Dr Forbes  is recorded as saying: 
On a point of order: Is the Minister entitled under the privilege of Parliament to tell a monstrous lie? 
This is a person who was once a Minister of the Crown. He went on: 
He is always doing this. 
He said that I was always telling the Parliament a monstrous he.  Mr Speaker  said: 
Order! The honourable member will resume his seat. There is no point of order involved - 
Then I asked  Mr Speaker  that the statement be withdrawn.  Mr Speaker  asked the honourable member for Barker to withdraw. 
All right. Hansard records that  Mr Speaker  said: 
The honourable member for Barker used the words 'monstrous lie'. The honourable member will withdraw that unparliamentary phrase ' monstrous lie '. 

 - Mr Speaker, I ask for an unconditional withdrawal. 
I rise to support the amendment moved by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  I shall read it for the benefit of the House, for the record, and for those who are listening to the debate. The Prime Minister has very aptly decided that the proper thing to be debated today is the failure of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  to use their influence on the members of their parties to comply with the Standing Orders and that thereby they have become parties to an attack on the institution of Parliament by members of the Opposition whose disruptive and unruly behaviour made difficult the conduct of the business of the House. 
I hear again a voice coming from the Opposition saying that I am a hypocrite, a voice that talks so much about the practices of the Parliament and the parliamentary usage. 
We have heard a long, doleful and dreary contribution from the Leader of the Opposition, during which time the only person from the Opposition benches to show any signs of mirth at all was the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Is it any wonder that he should have looked so pleased? Is it any wonder that he should have looked so smug and self-satisfied?  His  humour and mirth were the direct result of the very factors which led to the dreary, yawning and disinterested expressions on the faces of members on the other side of the House. The Leader of the Opposition, as the Prime Minister rightly pointed out, is desperate to try to do everything possible to distract attention from his own failure as Leader of the Opposition. He will resort to anything at all to prevent the Party that he pretends to lead from having an opportunity of deciding whether he is fit to lead. Snap elections, of course, suit him fine because a snap election, he figures, will prevent his side from thrusting the knife into his back before the election takes place in the ordinary course and he hopes, will influence the people to have as Prime Minister the person that his own Party does not trust. The people are not likely to accept as their Prime Minister someone whom his own Party will not accept as a Leader of the Opposition. Is it not odd- perhaps it is not- that when we on this side of the House moved that the right honourable gentleman be granted an extension of time, the only people to say 'Aye' were those on the Government benches. Not one single solitary voice from the Opposition joined in the chorus of those from the Government benches who said Aye ' to the motion that the Leader of the Opposition be granted an extension of time. 
The right honourable gentleman started off by talking about the Prime Minister's alleged contempt for the Parliament, but then he spent most of his time talking about Medibank, a snap election, the transfer of the economic activity from the private sector to the public sector, and so on and so on, completely ignoring altogether the reason for last week's disturbance. In other words, he was acting in the manner in which Cassandra saw him on the weekend when he said that Snedden is a weekend lion and a midweek mouse. How well did Cassandra, that very shrewd and knowledgeable student of political people, sum up the situation when he described him in that way. 
I want to remind the House of what the Leader of the Opposition said on 27 February 1973 when congratulating  Mr Speaker  Cope on his election to that office. He said: 
We on this side of the House will co-operate. We will not interject while you are speaking, provided that you do not speak for too long. 
That was the promise. He said: 'We will not interject on you,  Mr Speaker,  so long as you do not talk for too long'. That is how much respect he had for the Speaker's high office. He went on to say: 
We will be courteous at all times, provided that you do not provoke us. 
In other words, he was saying: 'If you do provoke us we will be as discourteous as it pleases us'. The honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  seems to have developed a very highly intelligent form of interjection which is to look natural and yawn, and he is doing it again now. The Leader of the Opposition went on to say: 
Further, we will be parliamentarians at all times, no matter what the circumstances. 
What a hollow undertaking it was. What a sham for him to give that undertaking, because from the moment he sat down the people he leads did all the things that he said they would not do. They made the parliamentary system a sham. They continually interjected when they were warned not to do so, and they continued to week and month after month the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes),  the honourable member for Wannon, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  who is the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party, the Leader of the Country Party, the honourable member for Gippsland, the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  and the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)-  all of them- continued to interject when it suited them. The Leader of the Opposition would just get to his feet at any time without waiting for the call and start to talk. When the  Speaker  would remind him that he had no right to speak until called he would say that he wanted to take a point of order, and then he would proceed to continue to talk without taking a point of order, or he would continue to take frivolous points of order. When the  Speaker  warned that if he continued to take frivolous points of order he would have no alternative but to name him, he continued to defy and to ignore the  Speaker  and to treat the  Speaker  and the Parliament with utter contempt. 
How did all this start? It started on 27 February- that is, last month. This is an extract from the Hansard record.  Mr Clyde  Cameron said: 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
In the personal explanation I told the Parliament that it was not true that I had refused to give the Opposition an opportunity to see what was in the Stonehouse file, that the spokesman for the Opposition on immigration could have seen the file, that my personal secretary had indicated to him that the file would be available. When I made that statement  Dr Forbes  interjected: 
You backdated the file. 
It was a deliberate untruth to say that I backdated the file. I did not backdate the file, as I was able subsequently to prove. I produced the file in the Parliament. I produce the file again and ask to have it incorporated in Hansard. It makes clear that I gave the instructions to Stonehouse that I mentioned on 1 5 January. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics of industrial disputes are made available in monthly bulletins published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics, the latest of which, covering the month of October 1974, was released on 4 February 1975. This bulletin indicates that the numbers of (a) working days lost and (b) employees involved in industrial disputes in Australia in the months to October 1 974 were as follows: 
For the information of honourable members I present the first annual report of the National Committee on Discrimination in Employment and Occupation for the year ended 30 June 1974, entitled: 'Towards Equal Opportunity in Employment'. 
Once again, I congratulate the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I always admire the efficiency with which he handles discussions of this kind. It is in striking contrast to the way in which the Leader of the Liberal Party,  Mr Snedden,  handles similar matters. It is no wonder that Opposition members who yesterday sat behind the right honourable gentleman looked so glum and, sitting behind the honourable member for Wannon today, looked so delighted and excited as they heard their proposed new leader show the Leader of the Opposition how to do it. 
The honourable member for Chisholm,  Mr Tony  Staley, spent all yesterday afternoon laughing at the Leader of the Opposition. He spent all this morning laughing with the honourable member for Wannon because he sees himself appointed as Attorney-General or some such Minister in the dim distant future when the honourable member for Wannon hands out his portfolios. If I was on the Opposition back bench, I would not waste much time supporting the present Leader of the Opposition. Take a tip from somebody who has been around this place a long time and who has seen people come and go: If any honourable gentleman sitting on the Opposition back bench wants to get on, he should fasten his star to the Wannon wagon because that is where the jobs are going to come from, not from the present Leader of the Opposition. 

-That is a silly statement, as the honourable gentleman knows. I do say that the honourable gentleman handled the discussion fairly well. He has plenty of practice, especially on discussions of matters of public importance dealing with unemployment. This  must be the sixth or seventh such discussion that he has proposed in the last 12 months. 
I have some good news for him. I know that he will be delighted to learn that, although the preliminary provisional figures are not yet made up and will not be known to me until about Thursday or Friday of this week, my tip is that for the first time for 10 months, the raw figures- that is, the actual number of people who are unemployed- will fall for the month of February. That is good news for everybody. I am sure that everybody will be pleased to hear thatexcept, I suspect, that the Opposition will now switch to seasonally adjusted figures. The Opposition always does that. Its members oscillate between whichever is the best. Up until now, Opposition members have been talking about the raw figures, that is, the actual figures of unemployed. I suspect that, because these figures are now falling, from now on we will be having our attention directed not to the fall which is occurring in the actual figures but to the rise which is occurring in the seasonally adjusted figures. It is inevitable that there will be a rise in the seasonally adjusted figures. But it is good news to those who have always been quoting the actual figures to learn that for the first time for 10 months the economy is now responding to what the Government is doing and there is likely to be a small decline for the first time in 10 months in the actual number of people who are unemployed. 
The honourable gentleman proceeded to criticise the Government on some of its schemes to create employment. He talked about the RED scheme- that is, the Regional Employment Development scheme- and criticised it. This is the first time that anybody from either side of the House has criticised the RED scheme. I know of no honourable member who has criticised it. For the first time ever members of the Federal Parliament, whether they be in Opposition or in Government, are being recognised by local government authorities as a direct link between local government authorities and the Federal Parliament. Never before has a Federal parliamentarian been recognised as having any direct link between the Federal Parliament and local government authorities. No longer is a State government the only government authority and no longer is a State member of parliament regarded as the only link between local government authorities and government. Now a more important link has been forged- a link between local government authority and the national Parliament per medium of the House of Representatives member for the area concerned, whether he or she be Labor, Liberal or Country Party. This scheme has worked exceptionally well. I repeat that every member of this Parliament, whether he or she be on the Opposition side or the Government side, has cause to be extremely proud of the bipartisan attitude that he or she has taken in regard to the administration of the RED scheme. It has worked extremely well. 
It is not true that the RED scheme ingores the States. State representatives are sitting on every one of the committees which administer the scheme. Last Wednesday, the RED Ministers decided that State committees should have full authority to determine finally all applications that come before them up to $100,000 per project without that project having to be referred either to the RED Ministers or to the central committee of senior officers who previously administered the scheme. From now on it should be possible, from the time a project is received by a State committee until the State committee is able to put its recommendation to me and my approval is given, that not more than eight or ten days will elapse. When a project is approved, a telegram is sent to the local authority concerned. But the local member of the House of Representatives must be satisfied that the project is one worth supporting. We will not support a scheme unless it is approved by the local member of the House of Representatives. If the local member recommends a scheme, we will approve it in that short time and we will make available up to 25 per cent of the cost of the scheme in advance in cash to the local government authority concerned. It is not only local government authorities which have benefitted from the scheme. All sorts of other public bodies have benefitted including Lions clubs, the Methodist Church, the St Vincent de Paul Society - 
-Not yet. 
-Well, the honourable gentleman is one of the most successful in the Parliament, having secured with great relish from me no less than $1.5m for his electorate. That activity is the kind of goal that every member of this Parliament should set out to achieve. Every member should seek to emulate the honourable member. There have been few honourable members who have been more active in regard to RED projects than the honourable member for Gwyder. 
It is not true to say that there are long delays. It is true to say that the RED scheme cannot provide a great deal of employment for women. This is because of the nature of the kind of work that the RED scheme is directed to carry out. In contrast to that, I can say that NEAT scheme- the National Employment and Training schemewhich the honourable gentleman from Wannon mentioned does the very reverse. More than two in every three who are approved for training under the NEAT scheme are women. So what the women lose under the RED scheme they pick up under the NEAT scheme. 
The honourable gentleman said that there is no co-operation between government departments in the administration of the RED scheme. That is not true. All the departments of the Governments have co-operated magnificently. My RED colleagues have co-operated magnificently. Decisions taken by the RED Ministers and at the officer level have been unanimous decisions. Never has there been any conflict, as the honourable gentleman suggests. He said also that the RED scheme excludes certain pockets of unemployment. Again, he is behind the times. The RED Ministers, to their great credit, have now decided that no area will be excluded from the operations of the RED scheme. Wherever a worthwhile project is put forward, provided it is adjacent or near to an area that has been declared it can be brought in under the RED scheme. The only qualification is that in areas that are not declared- areas that are merely adjacent to declared areas- each city municipality will be limited to $350,000 and each country shire will be limited to $100,000, and at this stage we will not be willing to use the RED finance for the purpose of constructing footpaths or for kerbing and drainage schemes which are open to RED areas which are declared as priority areas. No one, therefore, is excluded at all. 
I have said enough to show that there is no delay in the decisions taken. It is all very well for the State governments to say: 'Let us administer it'. Of course they would love to administer it. They would love to administer it so that they could use money made available by this Parliament and let it go direct to local government authorities, ignoring the elected representatives in the Federal Parliament completely and letting members of State Parliaments who have had nothing to do with the raising of the revenue be the only ones to be recognised by the local government authorities. We are not going to do it. Another thing about the previous scheme compared to the RED scheme is this: By having the local members of the House of Representatives overseeing projects that are to be carried out, we know that decent projects, which have some social value, which will have some long lasting effect on the area concerned and which will improve the quality of life of the people, will be the criterion upon which members of this Parliament will insist in approving the RED projects. Under the old scheme no one knew what happened to the money. The money was spent on 'make work' projects that were designed simply to make work for people regardless of whether the work being done was the best that could be undertaken. 
The honourable gentleman then switched on to the NEAT scheme. He said that it is not related to labour market requirements. It is related to them to an extent, but it is not related to them to the extent to which I would like to see it related to them. I would like to see the Government establish a bureau of labour economics. 
This will be done shortly. We will then be able to make short term, medium term and long term prognoses of what the labour needs are and to match the NEAT scheme to those needs. This is something which will come. But we have to remember that we started off from nothing. We came to office 2 years ago without any apparatus or machinery for making projections of labour needs in the future. The honourable gentleman talked about the staff ceiling. He asked why I did not stand the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  up. Does anyone in this Parliament imagine that there is anyone born who could stand the present Prime Minister up? He is the Prime Minister. He is a Prime Minister in reality as well as in name. He is a man whom we all respect. 
-He is not a dictator at all because he bows willingly to the majority decision of the Caucus, the majority decision of the Conference and the majority decision of the Cabinet. No one accepts some Cabinet decisions willingly, but the Prime Minister accepts them as willingly as anyone else. He does not always win. The honourable gentleman talks about me standing the Prime Minister up. Fancy the honourable gentleman standing the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  up. If the honourable gentleman cannot stand the Leader of the Opposition up, how can he expect me to stand the Prime Minister up? That is a ridiculous proposition. 
The honourable gentleman said that under the NEAT scheme the unemployed are given no preference over those who are already in employment. That is not true. It was true at the beginning. In the initial and infancy stages of NEAT a proper distinction was not made between people who were out of work and those who were in work. But it is now being made. Even including those who were accepted at the beginning and who are still being trained, the figures as of now show that 82 per cent of those getting NEAT training are people who are employed at the time. 
-The only way to cure the anomalies in the allowance is to go back to the old system of saying that a married woman should not receive as much as a married man. We do not believe in that. We believe that we have to make a stand against discrimination between the sexes and therefore we are not prepared to discriminate. Reference was made to a widow who loses her widow's pension. Of course a woman loses her widow's pension if she becomes eligible for $93 a week. We have had no complaint from any widow about losing her widow's pension in order to get training at $93 a week. That was not our law; that is a law that was put on the statute book years ago. In fact, it may have been put on the statute book in the time of the last Labor Government, for all I know. But it has been there for a quarter of a century. It ought to be there and it ought to stay there. It is proper and it should be there. 
The total cost of unemployment relief is high, but as I have already indicated it is falling. We are pleased to note the fall that is starting to occur in the raw figures. We anticipate with confidence that the Opposition will now start quoting seasonally adjusted figures. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
-This is the first I have heard of the matter from anybody. If the honourable gentleman sees me after question time I will be prepared to discuss it with him. 
-There has been a dispute at the establishment mentioned. It was settled, so we thought, through conference with the employers and the unions. All the women, except one- the shop steward- were reinstated, and it was because of the failure to reinstate the female shop steward that the dispute flared up again. My Department is watching the dispute very carefully and with more than usual interest. We have told the parties concerned that there are 2 ways in which to handle the matter revolving around the female shop steward. One is to refer the matter to the committee set up to carry out the International Labor Organisation Convention mentioned by the honourable member, of which  Mr Dick  McGarvie, Q.C., is the  President.  The other is to take action under section 5 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which was amended by this Government in 1973 to give special protection against victimisation of shop stewards. The legislation passed by this Government in 1973 to protect shop stewards against victimisation has not yet been tested. There is as yet no case law on it. The unions, I would strongly advise, should test the strength of the amendment made to the Act in 1973. If we find that there is need to amend the Act further to give it additional strength- we do not think there is, but if there is, and this will be determined only when we have some case law around it- the Australian Government will be prepared to bring in amending legislation. Two avenues are open: One is to take the matter to the National Committee on Discrimination in Employment and Occupation; the other is to proceed through the Industrial Court under section 5 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I am pleased to introduce to the House a Bill to establish the Trade Union Training Authority. The Bill sets the seal on one of the Government 's major initiatives and aims embodied in its industrial relations policy, the provision of adequate training facilities for trade unionists- both their leaders and their rank and file members. It recognises the crucial importance to Australia's industrial relations system of an efficient and well led trade union movement. The Government has given a massive boost to education. It now formally accepts its responsibility for ensuring that trade unionists have an opportunity to participate in training programs designed specifically for their needs. 
Australia is one of the most highly unionised countries in the world. In fact one of the main aims of our unique conciliation and arbitration machinery is to encourage and protect the development of trade unions as social institutions. Some 53 per cent of wage and salary earners in public and private employment belong to unions. The total resources available for union training, however, are negligible compared with those available for management training. Significant changes have occurred in recent years which have resulted in increased pressures on the union movement, as well as on management. Union officials 'jobs are becoming more complex. Technological change, acceleration in the economic growth rate, the changing industrial relations scene with collective bargaining and worker participation in management, and growing complexity of awards and legislation all add to the demands placed upon today's union official. The workforce is now better educated and unions are having an increasing impact on society. It is crucial to better labor relations that those who do business on behalf of organised labor know and are able to articulate the views of those whom they represent. At the shop floor level, the shop steward traditionally fulfils a formidable number of duties. He is a vital link in the chain of communication that ought to operate between shop floor and management. 
Fifty years ago, when educational opportunities depended upon a parent's pocket rather than upon a student's intelligence, many of those who in today's circumstances would have become the country's leading lawyers, scientists, academics or professionals gravitated to leadership of the trade union movement. Chifley, Curtin, Theodore, Rosevear, Eddie Ward, Percy Clarey, Clarrie Fallon, Jim Healey, Bill McCormick, David Temple and William Lane are some of the most outstanding examples. We still have men and women working on the factory floor who are there for reasons only of lack of education. The full-time union official is in a unique and unenviable position in that all too often he or she is forced to learn his or her skills on the job. There is nowhere a plumber, an insurance clerk or a waterside worker can systematically or readily acquire new skills as a research officer or as a negotiator. 
By the establishment of the trade union training scheme as detailed in this Bill, they will be instructed in how to analyse the significance of today's rapid changes, accept new ideas and methods, and perform more effectively their organising and administrative duties within the union movement. The training provided will be aimed primarily at promoting trade union competence. Such training will go towards bridging the gap between unionists' and managements' level of industrial relations knowledge and technique. This will undoubtedly diminish the tensions and frustrations between the two parties and contribute to the more efficient avoidance and resolution of industrial conflict. We have too many unions and union fees are too low. We need fewer and more efficient unions. The internal resources of unions are small. Therefore, funds must be obtained by means which will not diminish trade union responsibility. I feel sure honourable members will agree that trade union training should not be excluded from the many fields of training and education which a responsible Government supports and assists financially. 
I shall now turn to 2 major factors determining the nature of the trade union training provisions of the Bill. The Bill provides for trade union training to be offered by a national college and State centres which are established solely for that purpose. The training of unionists in union functions is a specialised task. Instructors and lecturers need to understand thoroughly their subject and the objectives and nature of the trade union movement. It must be the special responsibility of the union movement to formulate its own training schemes to accord with its own ideas and not to leave them to outside institutions. Thus the conduct of courses cannot be a joint responsibility of unions and employers. Whilst there are many similar problems facing employer and union bodies there is much that they do not have in common. 
Certainly both unionists and management representatives do attend courses and seminars in industrial relations and associated areas jointly. This is excellent and is to be encouraged. I least of all would support any idea of all training activities for unionists being carried out in isolation from the rest of the community. However, these activities are not designed specifically to develop the expertise of unionists as officials and members in the union movement itself. There has always been a range of government sponsored or assisted management schools, entry to which places no emphasis on participation by the trade union movement. The trade union training proposals can be seen as balancing Government assistance to management training. For instance, the Government has established the Australian Graduate School of Management at the University of New South Wales and is providing $2m a year to support it, but no one would suggest that this is other than to meet the needs of the private sector for skilled managers. This is not the only form of assistance which is given to the training of management. There are others. I can certainly see some possibility in the long term of the proposed Trade Union Training Authority coming together with management education bodies to run joint programs. However, its primary objective will be the adequate provision of trade union training. The philosophy expressed in this Bill is well recognised in many other countries and their experience has been drawn on in planning the development of trade union training in Australia. Most industrialised countries are providing organised education and training for unionists. We should do the same. Establishment of the Australian Trade Union Training Authority will provide the means whereby we can catch up with these countries. 
Before I turn to the present union training developments in Australia there is one further issue I wish to raise- paid educational leave. The skills being developed by union training should be seen as an integral part of union officials' work. It would be highly impracticable to provide such training out of work time. Industry and commerce recognise to a large extent the right of apprentices, supervisors, managers and others to in-company or external training for which paid leave is granted. They now need to recognise the  similar right of trade unionists. The 1974 Conference of the International Labour Organisation adopted a Convention and Recommendation on paid educational leave. Australia and other member countries are now considering ratification of this Convention. The Australian Public Service and the State Public Services in South Australia and Tasmania have taken the lead through the provision of paid educational leave for trade union training. Increasingly private employers are recognising the need to do likewise and some formal arrangements have already been made. For instance, in the vehicle industry there is already provision for paid educational leave for shop stewards attending union training courses. 
Since November 1973 the Government has taken steps to support and expand trade union training activities already in existence, most importantly by setting up an interim committee for trade union training. Membership of the interim committee reflects the composition of the Australian Council. Under the chairmanship of the permanent head of my Department, it comprises 3 representatives of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, one each from the other peak union councils- the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations and the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisationsand a representative of each State Labor Council. Honourable members will recall that the committee's report to me for the fiscal year 1973-74 covering its first 7 months of operation was tabled in Parliament on 4 December last year. The Committee has advised me of its views and comments on this legislation. It has done much to plan for a national college of trade union training. Consideration has been given to the role of the college and its location. 
I want to outline to the House now the principal features of the Bill. The Bill has been carefully drafted so as to be appropriate to the involvement of public funds in the activities that the Bill encompasses. I can say to the House now that there is no absolute need to bring down legislation on this subject. The Bill is therefore an expression of the Government's intention that what it is already doing will be the subject of continuing parliamentary scrutiny. There is provision in the Bill for annual reports of the activities of the Authority to be presented to Parliament and it contains other provisions that will ensure proper control of the public funds which will be devoted to these activities. The organisation scheme proposed by the Bill is a simple one. It centres around a snaring of responsibilities by a national body, the Australian Council for Union Training (ACUT), and 6 State Councils for Union Training. The whole will constitute a statutory corporation, which will be known as the Trade Union Training Authority (TUTA). 
The Australian Council will be responsible for the general policy making and direction of the activities of the Authority. The State Councils will be responsible for carrying out programs of union training in the respective States. In this they will enjoy a degree of independence. The Australian Council Will control the functioning of the national college, approve funds for trade union training programs, for the carrying out of research into union training. The duties and powers of State Councils are set out in clause 1 1. They will be responsible to the Australian Council for all matters relating to their respective State centres. They may make recommendations to the Australian Council. State Councils will have autonomy in setting their syllabuses, and in selecting students. Funding of State programs will be co-ordinated by the national body. 
The Australian Council will be chaired by the Secretary of the Department of Labor and Immigration or another officer of the Department appointed by the Minister, and it will be constituted by the Director of the Australian Trade Union Training College, 3 representatives of the Australian Council for Trade Unions, one representative from each of the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations and the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations and one representative each from the 6 State Labor Councils. This representation will be reflected in the State Councils with the addition of an educationist and a teacher representative on each of those Councils. We have sought to give a flexible definition in the Bill of the term 'trade union training'. This is to accommodate the wide range of activities which it can comprehend in that term. 
Clause 5 sets out the functions of the Authority. They are, briefly, to develop, conduct, coordinate and review trade union training in Australia. The Authority will be responsible to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. The Bill envisages, in clause 9, that councils for union training may need to be set up in the future in the 
Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. In the meantime, responsibility for union training in those areas will lie with the Australian Council. The Bill provides in clause 25 for the sitting fees of Council members to be fixed by the Remuneration Tribunal. 
Part V of the Bill deals with the college and State trade union training centres. I believe honourable members will find it straightforward and self-explanatory. Part VI deals with the staff of the Authority. Part VII of the Bill deals with the finances of the Authority and honourable members will find that these-provisions are standard and call for the usual scrutiny of accounts and financial transactions of the Authority by the Auditor-General. I feel sure honourable members will agree that this Bill is a significant cornerstone of the Government's responsibilities to trade union training. Not only is there a desperate need for the provision of training but unionists have demonstrated a very keen desire to participate and learn in programs which have been offered sporadically up to date. The Government will not deny the trade union movement, as it does not deny other groups in the work force, equal training opportunities consistent with needs. Our aim is to enable the union movement to perform their duties with greater understanding and with greater efficiency. 
I believe the whole community will benefit from what this Bill proposes. This should not be a contentious Bill. It is based on the proposals of many experts in the union movement, training, education and government. It has been carefully framed to meet the needs of unionists under the direction and control of a high level Council which is answerable to Parliament. I should like to express my appreciation of the work already done by the Interim Committee of the proposed Australian Council and for the help given the Committee by my Department, and for the enormous amount of work, thought and effort that was put into this proposal by my special adviser,  Mr John  Bannon. I am sure honourable members will wish to see this work being carried on and further developed to make Australia the forerunner in the provision of trade union training. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Donald  Cameron) adjourned. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since my answer to the right honourable member's question No. 1713, emerging requirements for research and information on matters of material concern in the manpower and industrial relations areas have pointed to the need to review my original proposal. Consideration is being given at present to establishing, within the Department of Labor and Immigration, a Bureau of Labor Economics which will include an Office of Industrial Information. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) to (6) I shall be issuing shortly a detailed report to me by my Department on the first three months operation of the National Employment and Training System (NEAT). I think the honourable member will find that the answers to his question will be provided by that report but if, on reading it, he wants further elaboration I shall do what I can to provide it for him. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The average income to the nearest dollar of people on the Income Maintenance Scheme is $89 per week. 
In the last pay week of January 3085 people received $89 and over; 6187 people received less than $89. In the last pay week of February 4648 people received $89 and over; 5579 people received less than $89. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (3) I shall be issuing shortly a detailed report to me by my Department on the first three months operation of the National Employment and Training System (NEAT). I think the honourable member will find that the answers to his question will be provided by that report but if, on reading it, he wants further elaboration I shall do what I can to provide it for him. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's questions is as follows: 
My answer to Question No. 525 pointed out that a comprehensive analysis of 1973 medical practitioners by source country or birthplace is not available. It is therefore, not possible to provide the full information required in your further Question 1781. 
I am informed that the information is limited to a selected group of countries for which cross tabulations of settler arrivals by birthplace and occupations are produced on a regular basis. This information is as follows: 
The countries of birth of 1 18 of the 331 medical practitioners who arrived in Australia in 1 973 is: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. On 20 September 1973, my colleague, the Prime Minister, informed the right honourable gentleman in reply to a Question Without Notice about interdepartmental committees that, if he wished to know the composition and function of any particular Interdepartmental Committee, and for what period of time it had been active, the Prime Minister would be happy to provide him with that information (Hansard, page 1317). 
I also refer the right honourable gentleman to the Prime Minister's answer to his further Question Without Notice on this subject on 15 November 1973 (Hansard, pages 3373-4). If the right honourable gentleman wishes to have information about a particular committee on which my Department is represented, I will assist him as far as possible having regard to the Prime Minister's answers to Question Nos 964 and 1057 (Hansard 27 September 1973, page 1714 and 24 October 1973, page 2665). 
I am disappointed to hear the tone of the question from the honourable gentleman, who until now has been looked upon as a fair-minded, reasonable person who judged other people by his own standards and tended always to regard people as being honest, as until now I felt he was. Of course I am not inflating the figures in order that I might deflate them later when there is an election, because we know from what the Leader of the Opposition has said that there will not be an election. So it is quite pointless for the honourable member to make that rather miserable point in asking did I inflate the figures. For the information of the House, let me say that I do not prepare the figures. I have nothing whatever to do with the figures. My only knowledge of them is when the final figures come out at the end of the month. It is quite unfair, quite ungallant, and I think quite irresponsible for the honourable gentleman to suggest that they are my figures and that I prepare them. 
The first part of the question asks whether this discrepancy for the first time ever- and that is correct; never before have the Commonwealth Employment Service figures shown a higher level of unemployment than is shown by the Bureau of Statistics figures- indicates multiple registration. The reason for the higher level of CES figures lies partly in the two reasons that he suggested might be responsible. It is true that there are multiple registrations in the sense that people already working do register for employment in the hope that they will either get a better job or they will get back a second job which they might have lost. It is true that there are a large number of people registering for employment who already have work, and therefore they are looking for a second job or looking for a job in lieu of the one that they have. That is happening. That cannot be stopped. It is not illegal for a person to register for employment when he already has a job. He is entitled to register for employment if he wants to get a better job, and when he registers it follows that if he claims to be unemployed; his registration will be included in the total. It is only at the point where he uses his registration for employment as the basis of an application for unemployment benefit that it becomes illegal to register for employment when in fact already in employment. As to the suggestion that there are inactive files that have not been culled, again it is true that there are some inactive files, and this was true at the time when the 
Opposition was making so much noise about the high level of unemployment two or three months ago. It did not suit the political purposes of the Opposition then to draw attention to the two facts which the honourable member has seen fit to mention now. 
-I wish the honourable gentleman had given me notice of this question. 
It would take more than me or more than the honourable gentleman to embarrass the honourable member for Port Adelaide, as the honourable gentleman will find to his sorrow later on. I cannot give the precise figures off the top of my head, but I can give the figures in thousands. There are 14,000 people or thereabout employed under the Regional Employment Development scheme, and the number is growing rapidly every week. There are 9,000 people employed under the National Employment and Training scheme, and that number is growing rapidly week by week. Those schemes have reduced unemployment quite considerably. Not only have they reduced unemployment by thousands a week; they also have reduced the number of people on unemployment benefits by many thousands- indeed, from 184,000 to 152,000- in the space of less than 3 months. As a consequence of the employment that is now available under the NEAT scheme and particularly under the RED scheme, we are in a position to apply a very strict work test to people who will not accept NEAT training which is suitable for them. A strict work test applies against those people who will not accept work under the RED scheme. That has had the effect of reducing not only the number of genuinely unemployed people but also the number of people who previously were not prepared to work. 
The RED scheme has provided employment, as I said, directly for 14,000 people, but indirectly it has provided ancillary employment for probably at least that number again. The same can be said of the NEAT scheme. Both schemes are working very well. They have exceeded even my most optimistic expectations. They continue to be, I think, schemes which have the full support of both sides of the Parliament. I have never known any scheme of this character which has had such unanimous support from both sides of the Parliament as these 2 schemes have. I say again what I have said on previous occasions, and that is that I thank the members of the Parliament from all parties for their cooperation, for the way in which they have supported the RED scheme and the NEAT scheme and for the way in which neither side has attempted to make party political capital out of these 2 worthwhile proposals. 
I think we are indebted to the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden),  who has just resumed his seat for giving us for the first time a glimpse of what the country can expect from a change of government. Although the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and other spokesmen for the Opposition have constantly said that the cure for inflation and social ills that seem to have taken over the whole of the Western economies lies in reduced government expenditure, none of them before has ever told us the precise nature of the reduction in Government expenditure which a LiberalCountry Party government would bring about. 
Thanks to the right honourable member for Bruce we now know that a Liberal-Country Party government would reduce all areas of government expenditure except the area of pension entitlements. 
The fact that honourable member after honourable member- some of whom are leaving the chamber- congratulated the right honourable gentleman on his speech and his candour indicates clearly that the words that he spoke do in fact represent more clearly the views of the Opposition parties than does the ambiguity of the Leader of the Opposition and the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. 
It is not nonsense at all. 
I did listen. The right honourable gentleman shows by his attitude that he speaks more accurately for the Opposition Parties on the questions of what areas of Government expenditure will be affected by the Liberal and Country Parties' policy than does the Leader of the Opposition and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. The fact that the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  does not reply to that statement indicates that he acquiesces in what I have just said. So we know now that everybody who has benefited from the Government's programs, which have entailed increased Government expenditure, will be made to suffer when a Liberal-Country Party Government is elected. They will be made to pay the price of dealing with inflation and unemployment because of the way in which a LiberalCountry Party Government will deal with it. 
I would like the Leader of the Opposition to say categorically whether he will cut the age pension. I do not mean in terms of monetary value; I mean its percentage ratio to average weekly earnings. Will he cut the invalid pension? Will he give a categorical undertaking that he will not cut the percentage which the widows pension now represents in relation to average weekly earnings? Will he give us a categorical denial that a Liberal-Country Party Government will not drastically reduce the real value of unemployment benefits. In relation to this point, I remind the House that many spokesmen on the Opposition side of the House have repeatedly condemned the level of unemployment benefits as being, to their idea, far too high. Let the Leader of the Opposition deny, categorically if he will, that the real value of repatriation benefits will remain untouched. Let him give a categorical denial that he will continue to give to the poorer schools- that is, the State schools and the poor parish schools- the same level of educational assistance as they now get. Let him deny that it is his intention when his Party is elected to government to reintroduce the payola to the category A schools which represent the class for which he stands. Let him deny that, if he will. 
Let him deny that he intends to scrap Medibank. Let him deny that if he will. Let him go further than merely remaining silent. Let him stand up and say where he stands in relation to Medibank. Let him tell the House whether he intends to continue the National Apprenticeship Assistance scheme which according to the latest figures this year- to the end of Februaryalthough there is an economic downturn, has brought into the work force a higher apprenticeship intake than has ever been seen before, even including the record year of 1973-74 when 43 000 apprentices were brought into the work force as against the previous total of 3 1 000. Let him give a categorical undertaking that he will not cut the subsidies which this Government is giving to employers in order to encourage them to employ apprentices. Let him say where he stands in relation to the Regional Employment Development scheme. This scheme has already found employment for 14 000 employees. It is finding increased employment week by week as it begins to get off the ground. Let the Leader of the Opposition say where he stands on the RED scheme which has the full support of all sides of the Parliament. 
Let him tell us clearly what he intends to do about the National Employment and Training scheme. Will he use NEAT as an avenue for reducing Government expenditure? If he intends to do that he will deprive this country of the most forward looking national employment and training scheme which it has ever had. Indeed, it is the most forward looking, comprehensive training scheme of any country. Will the Leader of the Opposition cut that scheme? Let him stand up and be counted on that. Does he intend to continue to spend the money so badly needed to make suburban life more liveable than it is now? What is his policy in relation to urban and regional development? Will he buy up cheap land or broad acres in order to make cheap land available to working people at a reasonable cost per block? Or does he intend to cut that too? 
Where does the Leader of the Opposition stand in relation to the Aboriginal question? Does he intend to cut the program of spending upon which we have embarked? What will he do about housing? Will he reduce the present program upon which we have embarked for homes for the aged, for war service homes, for rental homes and for finance to make it possible for people to buy their own homes at reasonable rates of interest? Will that be one of the areas on which he will chop down? 
Does the Leader of the Opposition intend to continue to assist the wool industry which is already getting $350m assistance a year from the taxpayer? I suggest that that will be one area which he will not cut. If anything, we can be quite certain that the wool barons will be guaranteed an increase in the amount which has already been given to them. He is not likely to decrease the amount paid to rural organisations. Under another Liberal-Country Party Government the Country Party will continue to be the tail which will wag the Liberal dog. Every Liberal Prime Minister that Australia has ever had has been a captive of the little rump which sits across on the corner benches. Every Liberal Party Prime Minister has been forced to carry out policies in which he did not believe in order to play safe with the Country Party rump which always threatens to throw the Liberal Party out of office. Does a Liberal-Country Party Government intend to reduce expenditure on the immigration program? 
I say that the election of the present Leader of the Opposition has polarised the electorate in Australia in a way which has never previously been seen in the history of our country. Never before have the people of this country seen such a political polarisation as we now have. I say that when the electors go to the polls at the next electionwith the present rich, wealthy and arrogant Leader of the Opposition- to decide whether they will elect a new Government they have to ask themselves some questions. If they can answer yes to the questions they will vote for the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party led by the honourable member for Wannon. If they have inherited a $lm pastoral property; if they can say that in addition they were educated at the Melbourne Grammar School and that they finished off at Oxford University; if in addition to that they can say that they have never lived in a city in their lives; if in addition to that they can say that they have never worked in an industry in their lives; if in addition they can say that they have never been bona fide members of a trade union; if they believe in giving category A schools rich handouts as the honourable member gave when he was previously in office; if they believe in savage strike penalties against workers who are trying to get what the market will yield for the goods which they sell in the same way as the seller of commodities goes to the market and extracts the maximum that the market will yield; if they oppose wage indexation; if they believe in allowing foreign investors being permitted to own and control our priceless mineral resources as well as our industrial potential; and if the electorate in addition to all this knows that this person wants to make the rich richer and the poor poorer, then and only then will the electorate vote for the political Parties represented by the present Leader of the Opposition. 
The Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party are the parties of privilege. They are the parties that represent the very rich, the warmongers, the large employers, the foreign investors, the cartels, the rich oil monopolies. Members of the Country Party are smiling over there at the thought of receiving another donation from the oil industry for the next election campaign. They know perfectly well that they are committed to a policy, if they are elected, that will guarantee an increase in the price of crude oil, that will put up the price of petrol to $ 1 a gallon for every motorist, whether he be rich, poor, or middle class. That is the policy to which the Country Party is pledged. That is the policy that it will impose upon the Leader of the Opposition if ever he should become the Prime Minister of this country. Whether he likes it or not, that is the policy that Australia can expect. 
They are the parties that represent the spivs and the racketeers in the stock exchange industry. They must be the representatives of the spivs and the racketeers in the stock exchange industry; how else can one explain the Opposition parties ' refusal to allow the Senate to pass the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill which would have given some control over the spivs and- I repeat it- the racketeers in the stock exchange industry. They are the parties that represent profiteers. They do not mind the sellers of goods making a profit from what they can extract from the market, but they object to the sellers of labour using the same means of determining the value of what they sell. The Liberal and Country Parties have absolutely no sympathy for and no interest in the working people, in the poor, in the aged, in the under-privileged, or in the buyers of petrol because their policies will increase the price of petrol. They have absolutely no interest in the children who attend the poor State schools and the poor parish schools. All they are concerned about are the wealthy pastoralists, the people who have inherited large fortunes, the rich, the privileged and the people who are able to exploit their monopoly position in the country. 
If the Leader of the Opposition ever becomes the Prime Minister of this country his policies will result in rising unemployment. That is a policy in which the Liberal and Country Parties believe. They deliberately bring about unemployment whenever they can. They believe in high unemployment. Now they have the audacity to pretend that they are opposed to high unemployment. 
The Opposition parties are in favour of high unemployment because when they were in Government before and when the right honourable gentleman was the Prime Minister his Treasurer boasted on 23 January 1972 that the objectives that the then Government had sought to bring aboutnamely, high unemployment- had been achieved. Unemployment is high under the present Government, but unemployment is high throughout the western world at the moment. It is not because of any deliberate design on the part of this Government, because no government has done more to try to swim against the tide of western economies and to bring down the level of unemployment than has the present Government. 
If the unhappy day ever arrives when we have a government led by the present proud, rich and privileged Leader of the Opposition, then we can expect rising unemployment, rising interest rates, wage reductions, as well as the abolition of Medibank, lower pensions, lower unemployment benefits, increased industrial unrest and a sell out of Australia's natural and industrial resources to foreigners, and if ever there is another war like Vietnam, Australia W111 be thrust into it again. Who is responsible for Australia's involvement in the Vietnam war? The present Leader of the Opposition was the Minister for Defence at the time, and he is the guilty man responsible. 
If he did not believe in the Vietnam war and he had just an ounce of principle, he would have resigned from the Government which was responsible for sending so many hundreds of people to their death in Vietnam. Did he care? No; in his arrogant aloofness he did not care one bit. It did not worry him that hundreds of thousands of civilians were being slaughtered in Vietnam. It did not worry the present Leader of the Opposition that people were burned to death with napalm. It did not worry him that young Australians were sent to Vietnam, maimed for life or killed in a useless war that has now been proven to be the invention of the Pentagon in the United States. It did not worry the present Leader of the Opposition at that time. He wanted to keep his job as Minister for Defence more than he wanted to comply with his conscience or those principles, if he had any, which conflicted or violated against this useless wastage of manpower and material. He is the guilty man. He is the man who wants Australia once again to repose its faith in his guilty, bloody hands. 
If the electorate should vote for a government led by the honourable member for Wannon it will vote for a government that really believes in unemployment rather than the present Government which is in favour of full employment. Let me illustrate to the House what this Government has done against great odds and against great opposition from the Opposition parties. We have provided employment for 1 1 666 people under the National Employment and Training scheme. Another 14 951 people are employed under the Regional Employment Development scheme. The intake for apprentices under the National Apprenticeship Assistance scheme will exceed 40 000 if the present rate is continued, and the income maintenance scheme is providing full wages for 8809 of them. In the last month only- in 4 weeks- the number of people receiving the unemployment benefit dropped by no less than 31 000. 
-There are 150 000 as against 180 000, a drop of 31 000. They were the figures as at the end of March of this year. This Government is asked by people like the honourable gentleman who just interjected why it does not do unpopular things. At the same time the Leader of the Opposition says that if ever we do anything unpopular we are going to be faced with a snap election and that we will not be given the chance to complete our 3 year term. He says: 'We are going to wait until we catch you with your pants down'. Whatever he intends to do to us then, I do not know. But he says that he is waiting to catch us with our pants down. Then he says: "The only guarantee we will give you is that we will not call for an election unless there are special circumstances', whatever that means. He never defines the term 'special circumstances', but obviously the special circumstances will be the circumstances which create a state of temporary unpopularity which will make it profitable for the Opposition once again to misuse its power in the Senate to refuse the elected Government the money needed to govern. 
I do know that there is a dispute at Darwin. I do believe that the claims being made are unreasonable. I have talked with some of my colleagues about the matter. With regard to what I should do to settle the matter, I might ask the honourable member for the Northern Territory what he would do. 
I am not in a position to indicate, until the national wage case has been concluded- in other words, until I receive the result of the wage indexation application now before the national wage bench- whether the Government will intervene in this case. If in the national wage case the bench rejects the Government's proposition on wage indexation, I would find that there would be little ground justifying intervention. 
I would not have risen to take part in this debate but for the tone of the contribution made by the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony). 
I did riot start it at aU. I reacted to a tone, which I thought was very unfortunate, in the speech of a person who I thought appeared to be a little terrified of the law as it now is, and who was absolutely relieved beyond all measure that there was going to be some tightening up of the right of an ordinary citizen, a taxpayer, an elector, whom the right honourable member called a pimp because he dared to expose a crooked member of Parliament. 
The Government accepts the amendment moved by the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  which seeks to amend clause 57 so that after sub-clause (1) the new proposed sub-clause is inserted. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
in reply- I regret that time did not permit me to answer the specific questions that were directed to me by the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  and by other honourable members opposite. I will write a letter to the honourable gentlemen setting out in specific terms the replies to the questions which were raised during the debate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
The Government accepts the amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 15 to 56- by leave- taken together and agreed to. 
Clause 57. 57. (1) The Australian Council shall, as soon as practicable after 30 June in each year, prepare and furnish to the Minister a report of the operations of the Authority during that year, together with financial statements in respect of that year in such form as the Treasurer approves. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to question No. 293 appeared in Hansard on 10 April 197S. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1)1 shall be issuing shortly a detailed report to me by my Department on the first three months operation of the 
National Employment and Training System (NEAT). I think the honourable member will find that the answers to his question will be provided by that report but if, on reading it, he wants further elaboration I shall do what I can to provide it for him. 
In general, the present position is that anyone who is unemployed and genuinely in need of help to find suitable employment is eligible for assistance under NEAT in the same way as any person is eligible for placement assistance, vocational guidance and other forms of assistance provided by CES. But an essential overriding feature of training under NEAT is its labour market orientation. Individuals assisted under NEAT need to have or be counselled towards specific (though they may be long term) employment objectives. These objectives are to be assessed by CES as realistic for the individual and compatible with the requirements of the labor market before training is approved. It has been impressed upon CES that NEAT is a comprehensive system of labour market training designed to be capable of selective and speedy application to remedy labour . inbalances in industrial sectors and geographical areas. It is designed so that CES may strengthen its capability to: alleviate unemployment wherever it may occur and contribute to overcoming skills in short supply; assist in the short-term, medium-term and long-term restructuring of the workforce, promote regional development, and bring about overall increases in the general levels of skills; and serve the social as well as the economic needs of the community and of individuals by means of special assistance, guidance, remedial training and other measures designed to aid the removal of inequalities and enhance employment opportunities. 
NEAT is not intended to provide: training which is clearly the responsibility of an employer; assistance for initial full-time education; training for skills which are not intended to be used in the workforce; and training which will not contribute to the achievement of an employment goal. 
Subject to the above, efforts are made to ensure that persons seeking entry to NEAT are dealt with as they apply and as the need for assistance is established. 
In this connection, however, and bearing in mind that NEAT was introduced at a time of rising unemployment, priorities have had to be established. They are- 
Persons rendered redundant by Governmental action such as tariff cuts. 
Persons rendered redundant by technological changes or other redundancy-causing situations. 
Persons whose employment prospects are affected by residence in an area where employment opportunities are limited or declining. 
Persons who are unemployed for reasons such as health, incapacity, imprisonment, or inadequate or inappropriate work skills or for lack of job opportunity. 
Persons who enter approved forms of training designed to alleviate specific labor shortages. 
Persons already in employment who on their own initiative wish to upgrade their skills. 
It is not intended these priorities will remain as a permanent feature of NEAT and they will be relaxed as soon as pressures of work on CES permit. 
This is a broad summary of the basic essential features of the guidelines that have been given to CES. 
These broad guidelines have not been changed since their introduction. 
Tertiary training in universities and colleges has not been suspended from the System. However, I have directed that applications which my Department intends to grant for training at university level for periods beyond 12 months must be referred to me for consideration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (4) On 23 January I made a statement which read in part: 'As a result of broad ranging talks which I have held with trade union leaders, I am now convinced that if wage indexation is re-introduced unions will make no future wage demands based on rising prices but will confine their demands to increases based on increased productivity, technological change and related matters. ' 
As the honourable member will be aware, in 1974 and again in 1975 the Australian Government made submissions to the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission supporting the re-introduction of quarterly cost of living adjustments. 
In the light of the 1974 decision and developments in the industrial relations and economic situation since that time, in the 1975 National Wage Case the Australian Government submitted that the Commission adopt a system of wage indexation based on the following four principles. 
Indexation adjustments would take place quarterly and automatically upon the publication of the consumer price index figure. 
Where at the date of adjustment, the award rate of an employee was not more than the figure for the seasonally adjusted average weekly earnings per employed male unit most recently published by the Australian Government Statistician- 
the award rate would automatically be increased by the percentage increase in the consumer price index; 
any over-award payment might be increased by agreement but that increase was not to exceed either- 
the amount produced by applying the percentage increase in the consumer price index to the over-award payment; 
the amount which ensured that the increase in the over-award payment when added to the increase in the award rate was a total which was not greater than the amount produced by applying the percentage increase in the consumer price index to the average weekly earnings figure; 
Where, at the date of adjustment, the award rate for any employee was more than the figure for the seasonally adjusted average weekly earnings per employed male unit most recently published by the Australian Government Statistician- 
the award rate would automatically be increased by the flat amount produced by applying the percentage increase in the consumer price index to the average weekly earnings figure; 
no claims for increases in any over-award payments would be made. 
There would be no wage increases on account of price increases except as provided above. Wage increases would otherwise be limited to those on account of changes in national productivity, work value or other special circumstances, but not including changes in relativities. 
This system of wage indexation would continue for 2 years and then be subject to review. 
It is clear from the reading of the four principles I have just outlined that the Government is not supporting wage indexation unconditionally. The Government s support for indexation is dependent, in part, on the receipt of acceptable undertakings from the union side, as embodied in undertakings by the ACTU, to comply with the principles of wage fixation laid down by the Australian Government. 
However, if the ACTU was not prepared to accept the conditions set out in paragraphs 1 to 4 above the Government would support a decision of the Commission to approve wage indexation in principle, but to introduce it on an award-by-award basis upon the receipt of suitable undertakings from individual unions. 
During the course of the proceedings the ACTU responded to the Australian Government submission and gave certain assurances. The Australian Government commented on the ACTU response and gave what it regarded as a proper interpretation of those assurances. The ACTU subsequently responded to that interpretation. I would imagine that the substance of this dialogue is being considered by the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in reaching a decision on the claim for the introduction of wage indexation. 
In my statement of 23 January 1974 1 said that, if wage indexation were introduced, future National Wage Cases should disregard price movements and that there would no longer be a need for a National Wage Enquiry every year to consider the effect of price movements as is now the case. The Government's submissions in the recent National Wage Case hearing included a proposal for an annual National Productivity Conference or Case to distribute national productivity improvement on an equitable basis. 
B I MARK: Market Forecasting Scheme  (Question No. 1502) 
I am informed that the answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The task forces are composed of existing staff in the Department of Labor and Immigration who have been temporarily released from their normal duties to provide emergency assistance in the Department's Victorian Regional 
Office and to offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service. No evening work is involved. 
All staff but one are either permanent public servants or in process of being appointed as permanent public servants; the exception is a temporary employee. 
They are on loan from their normal positions and are being paid the normal salary applicable to their classification. 
There are 14 staff in the NEAT task force and 13 in the task force for the Structural Adjustment Assistance Scheme. 
They are being used to assist with the processing of claims under NEAT and SAA. 
A request was made to staff to assist in meeting the Department's heavy commitments in the above areas. Where practicable volunteers were released to work in the task forces. 
I do not know what the honourable member is talking about. 
There was some conversation but I understand the honourable member was talking about a proposition put forward by the Australian Chamber of Commerce that the correct way to cure inflation is to double the number of unemployed and to have an army of about 500 000 people unemployed all the time. This is the traditional policy of conservative economists. Of course this is the policy which the Liberal Party and the National Country Party of Australia believe in. My information is that the policy announcement was made by this gentleman in the presence of people who were financial members of the Liberal Party and that it was received with approval not only by everyone present who listened to the statement but also by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition who was also present and who did not indicate any objection to the proposition put on that occasion. He sat silent. One assumes that that means that he acquiesces in the proposal put by the Chamber of Commerce. If he does not, I think the honourable gentleman ought to indicate that now. If he did not have the courage to do that in the presence of the people at the gathering he should at least indicate to the Parliament that he does not believe, as apparently his colleagues do, in having a standing army of 500 000 unemployed. 
I want to state positively and without any ambiguity the Government's wage policy in relation to indexation. To do this I will not have to retrace or take back any of the words I have used over more than the past year. However, I want to begin by asking for leave to table the submissions which are right now being made to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission by counsel representing the Australian Government. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Leave is granted. 
-As the document will show, the Government through counsel is telling the Commission that it believes that the Commission should totally disregard any elements of the present metal trades claim that are designed to cover price increases for the December quarter, because these have already been compensated for by tax cuts. It will ask the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to disregard totally any elements of the claim now before it that are designed to cover price movements in the March quarter, they having been taken care of already by the decision of the Commission to index the consumer price index for the 
March quarter. The Government will say to the Commission that the question of whether there is an existing anomaly that needs to be corrected to meet the transitional period is a matter entirely for the Commission to determine. Obviously that must be the position. 
The Commission recognised in its judgment that where a case of catch-up could be established, its formula would not preclude increases that were needed for that purpose. Of course, the Government will accept the principle that any such anomalies should be corrected in the metal trades industry or in any other case in which it is relevant. But it is for the parties in each case to establish to the Commission's satisfaction whether or not an increase is justified on those grounds. A statement to that effect is contained in a Press release which I issued officially on 9 May this year. There is no doubt in the Government's mind that wage costs contribute to inflationary pressures. There is no doubt in the Government's mind that inflationary pressures inhibit business investment and industrial expansion. There is no doubt in the Government's mind that the inhibition of investment programs results in further unemployment. It must do so in a population that is growing year by year. 
Wage costs, inflation and unemployment are interacting factors. That cannot be denied. One does feed off the other. One man's wage increase can lose another man his job. No one can deny that. We do not want to see some workers getting more and more money while more and more workers find themselves getting no wages at all. In considering applications for price movements that are made to the Prices Justification Tribunal the Government will ask the Tribunal to recognise only those wage costs that have been approved by the Commission and the Commission will be asked to reject all wage demands that seek to double count price movements. There will be no double counting of price movements so far as the Government is concerned. The Prices Justification Tribunal will be asked to reject out of hand any applications for price movements based upon wage costs not approved by the Commission. If employers wish to make wage deals outside of the guidelines of the Government's wages policy, those employers should be made to pay the cost out of their own pockets and not go traipsing off to the Prices Justification Tribunal for an increase in cost in order to pass it on to the rest of the community, which means on to the other workers. That is the way in which inflation is allowed to feed on itself. 
The Government has not abandoned any policy of wage restraint because the Government never had a policy of wage restraint so-called. The term 'wage restraint' has been dreamed up by members of the Press as a shorthand term to cover everything that represents both wage increases and wage restraint. It is an emotive term. People could go to  Mr John  Halfpenny and ask:  'Mr Halfpenny,  do you believe in wage restraint?' What a shock we would get if  Mr Halfpenny  said: 'Yes, I think that it is a good idea'. Somebody might ask  Mr Carmichael:  'Do you believe in absorption?' What a shock we would all get if he said: 'Yes, it is a great idea. We tried it in 1967. 1 liked it then and I like it now'. There is a continued use of words like 'wage restraint' when dealing with quarterly wage increases. That is what is being talked about with the use of the words 'wage restraint'. We have never said that we believe in wage restraint which represents a freezing of wages. We have said, on the contrary, that what we are talking about is a wage increase every quarter if it can be shown that there was a price increase in that quarter. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition says that the Government has now abandoned its policy and has opened the way for another round of wage demands. The Government has said nothing of the kind. What we say is that it is for the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to determine whether there is a just claim to remove any anomalies in the transitional period only. If there is, the anomalies ought to be removed but it is for the Commission to determine whether anomalies exist. Once these transitional anomalies have been removed, the Government's position is that there shall be no further wage increases recognised by the Prices Justification Tribunal that go outside the Government's wages policy guidelines. That is to say- I am repeating this-that every quarter there will be an automatic adjustment in wages to compensate for price movements. Every year there will be a hearing by the Commission to determine what productivity movements have occurred during the year. The benefits of whatever increases can be established will be distributed to the wage earners according to their just share of them. At any time in between if unions can show that an anomaly exists or has grown up as a consequence of changed circumstances, which will be quite rare, the unions should have the right to go before the Commission and if they are able to establish their case for a work value increase or for a catch-up claim they ought to be given it and they will be given it by the Commission. But unless the Commission approves of such increases, the Prices Justification Tribunal will be asked to reject wage increases based upon factors outside of those guidelines. 
Wage indexation is a central element of the Government's wages policy. I have made that clear. I have been talking about that for months. As far back as 29 June 1974 at the conference of the Industrial Relations Society of Australia held at Surfers Paradise I spelt out the guidelines of the Government and I stand by them now.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  perhaps I could have leave to have those guidelines contained in my speech at that conference of the Industrial Relations Society of Australia incorporated in Hansard. 
-The honourable member has read them. I sent him a copy of the speech. 
It is true, as the honourable gentlement states in his question, that the Australian Bureau of Statistics survey shows that the number of people registered for employment with the Commonwealth Employment Service is very much higher than the number of people out of work. 
-No, we have not been taken for a ride. 
I learned about this matter on 18 April this year. I scribbled a note- it is a confidential document and the honourable member will have to take my word for it, of course- which states: 'This report must be made public' Shortly I will give the honourable member a copy and the report will be made public. I first learned about it on 18 April 1975. The report does not show that anyone is receiving unemployment benefit who is not entitled to receive it. The report does show, however, that the Australian Bureau of Statistics in carrying out its survey discovered that some people had used addresses at which they were not in fact living. I am referring to people who had registered for employment and who had given a certain address. They were not necessarily getting the unemployment benefit but they were not in fact at the address they had given. It is possible- indeed, it is probable- that some of those people were receiving the unemployed benefit when they should not have been receiving it. That has always been the case since unemployment benefits were introduced. 
The survey itself did not establish that. Speaking for myself, I have no doubt that there are some people in Australia who are receiving unemployment benefit to which they are not entitled. We will be prosecuting some of these people in the courts, I think, next week or the week after. I talked to the Minister for Social Security about this matter. It is true that when the Australian Bureau of Statistics survey was undertaken the Director-General of Social Security believed that it would breach the confidentiality of his Department's work to give the names of people who were in receipt of unemployment benefits for the purpose of matching them against anything that the survey might reveal. I mentioned this to the Minister for Social Security and I am very pleased to say that, typical of that gentleman, he has given immediate instructions to his Department that it must co-operate fully with the Bureau of Statistics in any surveys that it may be undertaking to assist in determining what number of people getting unemployment benefit are not entitled to it. 
I have never sought to protect people who are sponging on the rest of the community. I have never sought to protect people who will not work. I have never sought to protect the professionally unemployed person, and neither has the Government. The work shy can please themselves what they do in their own time. I do not care whether they work or not, but if they choose not to work they have no right to expect the rest of us who do work to pay taxes to feed them. 
-Yes, the honourable gentleman is quite right. I can say that I am the architect of the wage indexation system of dealing with the wage cost effect upon inflation. After a rather long and lonely crusade I eventually gathered remnants of support from the trade union movement and from others and eventually it became Government policy, and very good policy it was too. The honourable member asked whether unions have to apply. The answer is that they do not. The 3.6 per cent increase for the March quarter will go to all unions and will be applied in full to all wages, regardless of level. The Commission has said that when the figures for the June quarter are known it will apply whatever increase is shown for that quarter to all rates unless some applicant or some person appears before it to give reasons why such increase should not be applied. 
The Commission also will decide at the June hearing whether the movement in the June quarter will be applied in full right up the range. Tentatively, it has decided that only the first 2 per cent of the June quarter movement will go to all salary levels and, unless somebody appearing before the Commission in July, when the figures for the June quarter will be known, can give some reason why that principle ought to be altered, that is what the Commission will do. The Commission also has decided that where the movement is less than 1 per cent in any quarter no one will receive any increase but that the amount of increase short of the required 1 per cent will carry over into the following quarter, will be added to whatever movement occurs in that quarter and will be applied on the basis that the Commission will decide in its July hearing. 
The Government, of course, supports wage indexation. Given indexation of price movements for wages up to average weekly earningsthat covers people receiving up to about $150 a week- given the annual review on productivity which the Commission has decided shall apply, and given the right at any time to prove anomalies or by work value studies to prove that there has been a change in the nature of the work, an increase will then be granted and provided of course that transitional anomalies are removed after they are proven, we believe that this is the only rational way of organising wages. Workers will be infinitely better off by having their wages increased every quarter to compensate for price movements than by going on strike every second quarter in support of wage demands based upon expectational beliefs as to price movements which usually become selffulfilling. 
We believe that, if the unions do not miss this golden opportunity to have wages settled by an orderly process, a scientific means by which no one will receive any less and no one will receive a cent more than the amount he is entitled to receive as a result of price movements, this will make a major contribution towards dealing with the inflationary spiral. Until that is done we will never be able to guarantee full employment, because employment, inflation and wage costs are all interacting one upon the other. If we do not control one, we cannot control the others. If inflation continues to climb to the level it has reached already in Britain or in many of the European Economic Community countries, then it will be impossible for industry to provide full employment. People will not invest money in the form of risk capital when they can get more by putting their money into short term loans. It is as simple as that. Employers do not employ anyone for the sake of providing employment; they employ people for the sake of making profits. That is one of the rules of the game, and while the game is played according to those rules everybody who is in it has to accept the rules as they are. 

 - Mr Chairman, I have listened very carefully to the debate on the proposal that we are considering. At the beginning I felt that there was a lot to be said for the proposal because I was of the view that if the Bill did not contain a provision to cover this kind of a situation, something ought to be done about it. But when I looked more carefully at the Bill and had an opportunity to see what the Senate did about this matter when it was debated at great length in that chamber I found I was satisfied that the amendment would be quite pointless. Provision for this sort of situation is already made in clause 114. 
-Yes, it is. Under that clause a person can get an injunction to keep the parties apart, where that is what is needed. There could be a situation where a wife is genuinely afraid of a husband breaking in and interfering with her, or whatever a husband does when he breaks in, or there could be a situation where a wife could break in on a husband- I do not know what she could do, but it could happen. Both parties require some protection which a judicial separation gives. Clause 114 gives that protection. 
If the learned, honourable and gallant gentleman contains himself for a moment he will see that it is quite pointless to support the amendment, as he does, because no grounds are provided for getting a legal separation. What seems to have been overlooked-: - 
-What the honourable gentleman seems to have overlooked is that this matter was debated at great length by the Senate. All these points were put by the Senate. 
-This is not the last half second of a Melbourne Cup race. I ask the honourable member to try to be calm and collected about the whole thing. Already in the Bill there is provision for legal separation. I did not understand this until I took counsel on it. I find that in the Bill there is provision for legal separation. If people want a legal separation they can get it by agreement. As I said, the Bill provides for that. Provisions in clause 114 provide for injunctions, which have the same effect as a legal separation. It seems to me that what the honourable member for Kooyong is trying to do or pretending to be doing- in fact, he will not do it- is to create a state of euphoria so that people will believe that this amendment might give them some relief. If the amendment is carried these people will be neither married nor divorced. They will be in a state of suspended animationif it is possible to be animated in such circumstances. That is about all they will get out of the amendment. In reality, they will have had nothing at all beyond what is provided in the Bill. The Senate looked at this matter at great length. It did not gloss over it. This is not something which the learned senators did not notice in the course of their debate. They did notice this. They are just as smart as we are. 
They did notice it. They took cognisance of it. I repeat that I have taken counsel on this matter. I would not have risen and made the speech which I have just made merely relying upon my lay knowledge of divorce laws. Let me tell the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  that I know more about divorce than he does. I am not talking from guesswork. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Mr Peacock's)  be agreed to. 
Pursuant to section 58 ( 1) (c) of the Stevedoring Industry Act 1 956- 1 973, 1 present the annual report of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority for the year ended 30 June 1974, together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
-The question raised by the honourable member for Kingston is a very complex one. The building industry is a fragmented industry. Because it is fragmented, and made more fragmented by the fact that most of the building is carried out by sub-contractors, we have not got a satisfactory method of training building workers for the various trades making up the building industry. My Department is now working on a plan which will seek to establish a training pool of building operatives so that we will not be left at the mercy of building contractors or sub-contractors who see little point in indenturing apprentices to trades, but simply tear into' tradesmen who have already served apprenticeships with larger employers, caring little for the fact that the supply of tradesmen in the building industry is becoming short. They have to face the fact that there is no point in putting a lot more money into the building industry unless it can be matched with manpower and materials. If we do no more than put a lot more money into the building industry all that will happen is that we will get the same number of houses but will have to pay a lot more for them. 
The Government believes that there is a strong case for permanency in the building industry, but before a system of permanency can be secured for the bunding industry we would need to have the support of the 6 States as well as the Commonwealth in any such plan. The permanency provisions covering waterfront employment have worked well. The same sort of thing, with some modifications, could work in the building industry. The question of permanency has been studied first of all by  Mr Justice  Aird and later by Justice Evatt. On the conclusion of consideration of Justice Evatt 's report- an interim report, which I have just received- the Government will have to decide whether it is worth while persevering with the inquiry, which has already been through the hands of 2 judges. I must say that the Building Workers Industrial Union has co-operated well with the Government in its scheme for adult apprenticeship. The scheme has worked very successfully in the experimental stages that we have embarked upon already. I hope that other unions will come to see the necessity for this sort of thing. In the meantime, until other unions see the necessity for adult training, this Government will have no hesitation and no alternative but to recruit skilled tradesmen from overseas to bridge the gap that now exists. The irony of the whole thing will be that the majority of those skilled tradesmen who are recruited from overseas to bridge the gap which now exists in certain facets of the building industry will be people who obtain their trade certificate by adult apprenticeship training. 
Nominally I have authority for issuing visas, but when an application for a visa comes from a source such as that outlined by the honourable member and is connected with diplomatic matters it is one for the Department of Foreign Affairs or the Prime Minister to handle; it is too big for me to handle. One has to have someone of some consequence to handle a matter like that. Naturally I would hand over such a matter to the person who is most suitable or who would more appropriately handle it. In the case referred to by the honourable member I was very glad to do that, and it was with a great deal of confidence that I handed the matter on to the Prime Minister for attention. Whether the Prime Minister handed it in turn to the Foreign Minister I would not know because it is not my function to probe him on matters like this. I believe that it was competently handled, not by me but by those who did in fact handle it. 
This is only the second time on which I have risen to speak on the Family Law Bill. I do so because at the moment the debate is dealing with clause 75 of the Bill. This is a clause which was dealt with extensively by the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs which was charged with studying in depth the provisions of the original Bill. After long and very careful consideration the Standing Committee decided that the Bill and the clause which we now have before us should have added to it paragraph (n). That clause provides: 
In exercising jurisdiction under this part, the court shall take into account only the matters referred to in sub-clause (2). 
Sub-clause (2) sets out the things that shall be taken into account, such as age and the state of health of each party. That is a perfectly proper thing to take into account. Other matters to be taken into account are the income, property and financial resources of each of the parties and the physical and mental capacity of each of them for appropriate gainful employment. Because of the limitation of time I will have to skip over paragraphs (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i), (j), (k), (l) and (m) which deal with matters of a similar character. Then the Senate added this very important, all-embracing, omnibus paragraph which states that the court shall take into account: 
any fact or circumstance which, in the opinion of the court, the justice of the case requires to be taken into account. 
Where Parliament is able to lay down the law in clear and precise terms it has a duty to do so. It is not right that Parliament should dodge issues which are capable of being dealt with by precise definition within the statute. It is not good enough for Parliament to run away from issues which can be clearly laid down by statute by allowing those matters to be dealt with by case law. No one, I believe, expects that the Parliament will abdicate its responsibility and allow a series of judges in 6 States eventually to hammer out a consensus on what should happen in these cases. The Senate looked at this matter with great care and added to the list of matters that the judge shall take into account sub-clause (n), which refers to any fact or circumstance which, in the opinion of the court, the justice of the case requires to be taken into account. Clause 75, which is now before the Committee, with that additional amendment was carried by the Senate -a Senate which is representative of all the parties in this chamber. It was carried without a division and without dissent. The Senate has given this Bill far more attention than this House has given it, and no one can say that the Senate is a rubber stamp for the Attorney-General. 
-No, it is not a question of this House being a rubber stamp for the Senate at all. The Senate has given this Bill far deeper attention than this House has given it. A standing committee of the Senate has gone into the pros and cons of the Bill far more carefully than we have. If a committee of that kind and a Senate which is constituted in the way that our Senate is, representing all sections of the community, has supported unanimously the clause that is now being put here, I believe that we ought to accept it unless some weighty reason is given for not doing so. So far no such weighty reason has been advanced; and, until a weighty reason has been advanced for rejecting the unanimous decision of the standing committee of the Senate and of the Senate itself, I am not prepared to change the clause just on the say-so of somebody who jumps to his feet and talks off the cuff, as it were, on a matter of this kind. I hope that the Committee will accept the clause in its present form. 
I submit to the Committee that the amendment is unnecessary. Clause 8 1 of the Bill states: 
In proceedings under this Part, other than proceedings under section 78 or proceedings with respect to maintenance payable during the subsistence of a marriage, the court shall, as far as practicable, make such orders as will finally determine the financial relationships between the parties to the marriage and avoid further proceedings between them. 
The amendment moved by the honourable member for Mackellar states in part: 
In proceedings under this Part, where the parties have by mutual consent come to an agreement and have so notified the court, the court shall not make an order differing in substance from the terms of that agreement, unless it is satisfied- 
that the agreement does not adequately protect the interests of any child or children of the marriage; or - 
There is nothing in that which is not already covered by the existing clause 81- 
that there are special circumstances which would justify such variation; or - 
There is nothing there that is not already covered in existing clause 81- 
the parties have mutually consented to such variation; or - 
There is nothing in that which is different from the powers given to the court under clause 8 1 - 
that since the making of the agreement there have been changes in the circumstances of either party which were not contemplated at the time of the making of the agreement. 
There is nothing there either that is not contemplated in clause 81.I am completely opposed, as I hope the Committee will be, to a new clause being written into the Bill which will allow parties between themselves to enter into agreements which might be different from the results that would flow from clause 81 as it now stands. Far too often we have seen parties enter into agreements in respect of matters such as custody and particularly in respect of matters concerning maintenance and the disposition of property and, when the agreements have been put under finer examination by someone who is able to determine more accurately and precisely what sort of settlement should be made, we have found that people have signed away their rights without any real understanding of what they have done. 
How many wives or ex-wives have agreed to some settlement which with the passage of time has proved to be quite inadequate for their needs? I know of a very wealthy man- one of the wealthiest men in Australia- who was able to trick his wife into an agreement for settlement which involved the payment of a somewhat handsome amount at the time but which with the passing of time has proved to be totally inadequate. Such an arrangement as that would never have been accepted by a court given the right to make a settlement under the powers conferred on it by clause 8 1 . This is a very dangerous amendment that is now being proposed. Coming as it does from one who, quite honestly, has a very tender regard for the position of women- I say this quite solemnly and seriously; I know that he does- I can only say that he is misguided if he believes that the proposed new clause ought to be put into the Bill. I plead with the honourable gentleman to rethink this matter and to withdraw the amendment, because it will do the very opposite of what he thinks it will do. The Bill as it now stands is the safer provision. It is much safer to leave clause 8 1 as it is, giving the court, in proceedings before it, the fullright and full discretion to determine what kind of a settlement shall be entered into. We will run into - 
Motion ( by  Mr Daly)  put: 
That progress be reported. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report submitted to the Committee on Overseas Professional Qualifications by its working party on interpreting, dated August 1974. 
I was listening with great interest to the question and wondering who was going to answer it. I did not hear the first few words. Yes, I have heard of all of these things. I have no doubt at all that the insurance companies are carrying on a campaign of intimidation against their officers. They are making it clear to the officers that unless they come out and develop a synthetic campaign of opposition to the Government's proposal they will be dismissed, or certainly they will not be promoted. The charge is a very serious one. It could constitute a breach of International Labour Organisation Convention No. 111. I will be asking the  chairman  of the Anti-Discrimination Committee,  Mr McGarvie,  Q.C., to look into this matter. If it is found that there is a breach of the ILO convention by the companies concerned, I will ask him to give me a report which I will table. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill proposes increases in the statutory maximum rate of charge that may be prescribed in respect of 3 classes of waterside workers as defined in the Stevedoring Industry Charge Assessment Act. The actual rates are fixed by regulation within the limits of the maximum rates established in the Act and are based on the hours worked by a waterside worker. The Act provides that differenct rates are payable in respect of the three separate classes of waterside workers. Class A waterside workers are registered regular waterside workers employed at weekly hire at permanent or continuous ports. Class B waterside workers are employed at continuous non-permanent ports. Class C waterside workers are irregular waterside workers who, because of age or some special reason, are not obliged to attend regularly or make themselves available for employment. 
Moneys collected by means of the stevedoring industry charge are paid to the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority to enable it to discharge its responsibilities under the various Stevedoring Industry Acts. It should be appreciated that the charge comprises only one element in the total cost of employing a waterside worker, which also includes such factors as award rates of pay, private levies and other private employer costs. The present maximum rates provided for by the Act are $1.50, $1.75 and $1.20 per man hour for A, B and C classes of waterside workers respectively. The respective actual charges of $ 1 .40, $ 1 .75 and $ 1 . 1 5, currently levied are at or near the statutory maximum permitted under the stevedoring industry charge, cannot be increased sufficiently by regulation to meet any significant future increases in industry costs. 
It is anticipated that movements in wages, combined with a low level of stevedoring activity, will adversely affect the financial position of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority during the latter part of 1975 and that it will be unable to meet its financial commitments from the revenue currently derived from the charge. The Bill proposes that the Stevedoring Industry Charge Act 1947-1973 be amended to provide for the maximum rates of charge of $2.50, $3.50 and $2.50 for Classes A, B and C waterside workers respectively. The proposed amendment will not in itself vary the current rate of charge. The actual rate of charge is fixed by regulation after consideration of detailed recommendations by the Stevedoring Industry Authority- 
I have already given the actual rates at the moment; they are $1.40, $1.75, and $1.15 respectively for the A, B and C classes of waterside workers. I repeat that the proposed amendment will not, in itself, vary the current rate of charge. As I have already said, the actual rate of charge is fixed by regulation after consideration of detailed recommendations by the Stevedoring Industry Authority and in consultation with other Ministers affected. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Twenty-five local authorities or other bodies, within the Electoral Division of Kalgoorlie, have applied for assistance under the Regional Employment Development Scheme and they are as follows: 
-A short time ago the various State premiers indicated to the Prime Minister that they needed additional funds to make it possible to continue to employ people then employed on roads and such work. The Prime Minister invited the State premiers to indicate to him the amount of money they would need to make it possible to continue to employ these people. They submitted to the Prime Minister the amounts that they would need for this purpose, and the Prime Minister and the Treasurer agreed to give them the full amount for which they had asked. Therefore, it is not true to say that any dismissals in the Queensland Public Service are due to lack of support from the Australia Government. 
It is not true either to say, as  Mr Lee  quite wrongly and untruthfully said in Parliament, that it is possible for State instrumentalities to sack their employees and for the same employees who are sacked to walk around the corner and be employed on another State Government sponsored project under the Regional Employment Development scheme the very next day. That is not true. I have had that matter checked out by my Department, and my Department's records do not show any case where an ex-Department of Works employee was re-employed under the RED scheme on projects which had been sponsored by the State Department of Works. 
The Queensland Government was given specific grants to maintain State Government employment, quite apart from the RED scheme. In Queensland under the RED scheme 1 042 projects have been approved by the Australian Government, providing employment for 10 699 persons at a total cost of $3 6m. If it is true that the State Government had properly assessed the amount it needed to keep its people fully employed- it was its job to do that and not the Australian Government's job- and if it knew its sums, one can only assume that there has been some misappropriation of the moneys allocated by the Australian Government to Queensland. In private life where a conviction for misappropriation is recorded, the person concerned is sent to gaol. 
I did not know that the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street),  who has just resumed his seat, was one who would resort to such gross personalities and make such vitriolic attacks on a person who has always thought that the honourable member was a friend. The honourable member for Corangamite has come out in his true colours today. We see that behind the benign face there lies a very hard, cruel and vindictive person. 
At the beginning, I make the observation that this is the fourth occasion that the Opposition has launched a debate on the alleged failure of the Government to deal with unemployment. The first debate was led by the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden).  Shortly afterwards, he lost the leadership of the Opposition. The next attack was led by the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who did better than  Mr Snedden,  but who did so poorly that on the third occasion when it was decided to launch such an attack the Leader of the Opposition himself asked the  Deputy  Leader of" the Opposition,  Mr Lynch,  to lead the debate. Now we have yet a fourth Opposition member who is trying his luck, the others all having failed quite dismally. 
The basic difference between the policies of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party- more so the National Country Party than the Liberal Party- and the Australian Labor Party is that the Labor Party believes in full employment and it will go to no end of trouble to try to provide employment for people who are out of work. On the other hand, the Liberal Party and the Country Party in 1971 went to no end of trouble to bring about unemployment. This was a deliberate economic ploy by the LiberalCountry Party Government of the day to create a pool of unemployed in order to put the unions in their place and, as the then Government saw it, to cure inflation. It had no other cure for inflation but massive unemployment. 
The amount of unemployment which we have now- it is higher than the Government would like, and it would be a lot higher but for the action taken by the Government- is symptomatic of what is happening right throughout Western economies. From the time of the energy crisis when the increase in the price of oil had such a tremendous impact upon the economies of European and North American countries, the problem of inflation, and with it unemployment, as one is interacting against the other, has been a difficulty which all of those countries have had to face. Australia is not the only country in the world that has a high level of unemployment. The United States of America, which no one could accuse of having a socialist economy, has a level of unemployment that has now reached 8.9 per cent and threatens to reach 10 per cent before the year is out. Canada- hardly a country with a socialist economy but in fact a country with the kind of economy that represents some of the thinking of the Liberal Party- has an unemployment level of 7.2 per cent. Unemployment in West Germany, with all the advantages that that country gained from post war reconstruction and the enormous amount of money that was poured into its redevelopment, is now 4.7 per cent, having risen from 0.9 per cent a little more than a year ago. 
On the question of inflation, the United Kingdom has an inflation rate of 21.7 per cent. Inflation in Italy is running at 20 per cent. I could go on to give plenty of examples from around the world of increasing inflation. But what we cannot find in any other country in the world where inflation has increased is that the general standard of living of the working people has gone up anything like it has in Australia. There is no country in the world where the net benefit of the government's administration has been so beneficial to the working people as has been the case in Australia. (Quorum formed)  Mr Deputy Speaker,  in view of the fact that the Opposition has lost all interest in its own matter of public importance, I move: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
Question put. 
For the information of honourable members I present the communique of the Fifth Conference of Asian Labour Ministers held in Melbourne from 8 to 11 April 1975. 
-This question was raised with me originally in New Zealand in October last year when the New Zealand Prime Minister expressed concern about what he believed to be a possible exodus of Australians across the Tasman seeking employment in New Zealand, thus creating unemployment in that area. I was able to tell him that it is very difficult to get Australians to go from one State to another to look for employment and that they are not likely to go across the Tasman to look for it. Since then I have had talks with the New Zealand Minister for Immigration. His view was that we ought to consider adopting some method of distinguishing Australians and New Zealanders from non Australians and non New Zealanders so that people who are not entitled to the reciprocal benefits which have existed between our 2 countries since 1920 would not be able to get those benefits. If this were done, we would be able to control people who had no right of entry into New Zealand or Australia. 
That is to say, people are able to come into Australia and use it as a staging point for entry into New Zealand or, alternatively, people go to New Zealand and then use New Zealand as a staging point to gain entry into Australia. Neither category would be entitled to entry in the normal course of immigration procedures. I have seen reports in newspapers. My Department has checked and we have not found any confirmation of the resistance to which the honourable member refers. The talks which we had were very satisfactory. I cannot recall whether it was I or my opposite number in New Zealand who proposed the idea in the first instance. To the best of my recollection it was he, not I. But I support the idea and the manpower committee of the Caucus supports the idea unanimously. It discussed the matter fully and we will be reporting to the Parliamentary Labor Party on the matter. I was directed to go to New Zealand by resolution of the Caucus and I am required to report back to it. I shall do so. 
For the information of honourable members I present the interim report of an inquiry into employment in the building industry by  Her  Honour Justice Elizabeth Evatt and a report on some aspects of the stevedoring industry in Australia by  Mr Norman  K. Foster. Due to the limited numbers available at this time reference copies of these 2 documents have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. Copies will be distributed to all honourable members when they become available, which is expected to be later this week. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the papers. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Sinclair)  adjourned. 
I did see an article by Clancy in the ' National Times ' saying that the Priorities Review Staff was surprised to find that 22 people had been chosen under the National 
Employment and Training scheme for training for unskilled occupations. I had this checked and I found that the figure was wrong and that the definition was not understood. There were 41 people chosen for training under the category of unskilled workers, which is a very broad banding category for a description of the labour market used by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. The figure was 41, not 22; and in the previous quarter is was 8 out of approximately 50 000 people who had been interviewed. The writer of the article did not seem to understand that the term 'unskilled worker' is a very broad banding definition and that it includes people such as asphalters, mine labourers, excavators, trench workers, acid makers and arsenic sulphide makers. Although it is true to say that they are properly included within the category of socalled unskilled workers because they are not tradesmen, nonetheless it would be very foolish to say that they require no training. If the writer of the article were given a job as an arsenic sulphide worker, as an acid maker or as a mine labourer and had not been given any training, he would not be writing any more articles. 
-Not very long. I thank the honourable member for the interjection. 
I move: 
That the amendments be agreed to. 
The amendments are consequential upon the amendments moved by the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  in this House during the Committee stage. The effect of the amendments which were in fact moved by  Senator Bishop  on behalf of the Government is to give complementary effect to those amendments which were moved by the honourable member for Corangamite, who is now at the table. One of those amendments provides that the 3 additional members of the Australian Council- that is, the person nominated by the Prime Minister, the person nominated by the Leader of the Opposition and the person nominated by the Minister for Education- shall hold office for 3 years. That amendment became necessary because we had to specify the period for which they should hold office. There was a typographical error in clause 18, and that has been corrected. The same kind of error has been picked up in clause 1 9. 
A consequential alteration has been made to clause 27 by the addition of 3 new sub-clauses. The first one makes it clear that the member of the Australian Council appointed by the Prime Minister or by the Leader of the Opposition may resign his office in writing but that he remains a member of the Council until the resignation has actually been accepted. The same would apply in the case of the person nominated by the Minister for Education. Any member of the council, other than the Secretary, a director or a member nominated under proposed new sub-sections ( 1 ) and (2), could resign his office by writing under his hand delivered to the Minister, but again such resignation would not operate until it had been accepted by the Minister. 
The rest of the amendments are purely consequential, except one machinery amendment to insert a new clause 5 lA, which provides that the Council may, either generally or otherwise as provided by resolution of the Council, delegate to a member of the Council or to an officer of the Authority any of its powers under the Act, other than the power of delegation. The new clause has been made necessary by the insertion of the first sub-clause to which I have referred. 
I take this opportunity to thank the honourable member for Corangamite, who is at the table, for the co-operation which he has given to me in this matter. He has shown considerable reasonableness. The amendments which he moved in this place were good amendments. The Government accepted them. Uncharacteristically, the Senate accepted the Bill without any amendments other than the ones that were merely complementary to the earlier ones about which I have talked. I place on record my appreciation of the co-operation and assistance which the honourable gentleman gave me in this matter. It indicates that trade union training and the establishment of a college for trade union training are now no longer party political matters. I think that is good. 
-No, I do not think he would want that. I just place my thanks on record. 
in reply- I listened carefully to the remarks made by the honourable members for Corangamite  (Mr Street),  Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  and Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh).  They were all quite thoughtful contributions. I did not agree with all they said but I thought that the 3 speakers had the distinction of attempting to offer some solution to the waterfront problem. This the last  speaker,  the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron),  did not do. We all know what the problem is. The last  speaker  knows it also.  His  speech was an ambivalent one which seemed to blow hot and cold. He was all in favour of the waterside workers and it was good to hear him take that position but at the same time he suggested that they also were a bit greedy. 
-Is that what you said? 
-The honourable member is not prepared to say 'Right ' to that. 
Honourable members can see the ambivalence of the honourable member for Griffith. He offered no solution. We all know the problem and what we are looking for is a solution. The honourable members for Corangamite, Darling Downs and Wakefield at least did attempt to provide some solution to the problem. Their solution was not specific or definite or one of total commitment to what they were putting but at least they did canvass possibilities. One of the possibilities they canvassed in a non-committal way was that we look at the idea of setting up a national or an Australian stevedoring industry corporation to control the whole of the stevedoring operations which could be controlled constitutionally by such a body. It would be a body to control stevedoring operations and would remove the influence- I agree with all honourable members when they call it the sinister influence- of the overseas shipping companies on the stevedoring industry in Australia at the moment. We all know that most of the larger stevedoring companies in Australia are really the auxiliaries or the sudsidiaries of overseas shipping companies 
To talk about the Australian Government setting up a corporation to control the stevedoring industry without at the same time setting up a corporation that would have complete control over the whole industry, to the extent that the Constitution would permit it to be done, is quite silly. If such a corporation were set up and the stevedoring companies that are now the subsidiaries of overseas shipping companies were allowed to continue to operate, it goes without saying that the P &amp; O Line and the various other overseas shipping lines would continue to give their business to their subsidiaries no matter what the cost of this might be to the Australian shippers and to the Australian community. 
So I believe that there is a lot of merit in the proposition that was canvassed- put forward not as a definite proposition but as one that ought to be considered- that we should establish a stevedoring industry corporation in Australia. I would be prepared to recommend that course to the Government. I have looked at this matter for a long time. I have gone into it deeply. I am not now talking idly, making a decision or saying something that has just suddenly hit me. Over 2 years at least I have been worried about aspects of the stevedoring industry, particularly those that concern the relationship that exists between foreign shipping lines and some of the stevedoring companies in Australia. 
My own personal view- the Government has not endorsed it but the manpower committee of Caucus has done so- is that the Government ought to offer to buy out the existing stevedoring companies, not to confiscate them but to buy them out at fair valuation and pay them cash, to take over the stevedoring companies that are now out operating with overseas and interstate shipping, and to buy out container depots. I know that it would cost a lot of money but let us not forget that it is costing a lot of money at present. It is costing us a mint of money. We are getting nothing for it- nothing in the sense of having something to show for what we pay. Whilst it would cost a lot to buy out these companies we ought to quake at the idea. We ought to be prepared to set up the industry and have it controlled by a board on which all sections of the industry would be fairly represented and which would be answerable to Parliament. It would have to report to Parliament every year. In this way we would be establishing a corporation that would have complete powers over interstate and overseas shipping, with the right to compete in intrastate shipping but not the right to dominate or to control it. I venture to say that if this were done the efficiency of the corporation, properly managed in the way that I am suggesting, would be such that even though it had only rights to competition in intrastate shipping it would very soon assume virtually what amounts to full rights to take intrastate as well, because I cannot imagine how many of the stevedoring companies in the main ports could continue to operate if all they were allowed to do was to deal with intrastate shipping. Smaller stevedoring companies in little places like Albany, Thevenard, Ceduna and other outports that we now have would probably continue to operate. I want to make it clear to the Opposition that before the Government would be prepared to go to the trouble- an enormous amount of work would be needed to prepare legislation to bring in a stevedoring industry corporation of the kind we are now talking about - 
-Before we faced up to all the problems that would have to be faced we would want to have some reasonable assurance that the legislation would not be blocked in the Senate in order to achieve some Party political point of principle or even a point without principle. I would not be prepared to ask the Government to go to the trouble of preparing legislation like this if it were only going to be knocked back in the Senate. We have too many other things that need to be done and do not want to be wasting our time- and that is what it would amount to short of that assurancepreparing legislation to do the things that have been recommended or advocated in an unofficial, ad hoc sort of way by the honourable members for Corangamite, Darling Downs and Wakefield. 
The sort of people I would want to see on the board would be representatives of the Waterside Workers Federation. I would want to see somebody from the existing stevedoring companies like  Sir Reginald  Reid or  Mr Donald  Strang. If we are to have a successful stevedoring corporation we would have to have on it people who know what stevedoring work is all about. Those 2 gentlemen I have just mentioned do know stevedoring. They know it backwards; they are good stevedores. They would be 2 people that I could name who would make a marvellous contribution. 
Waterside workers understand stevedoring operations and ought to be represented on the corporation. For that matter I believe that the Government should be on the corporation as a representative of the consumers. 
-We own ships. 
-Under the agreement that operates at the moment the Australian National Line is forbidden to carry out its own stevedoring operations, which is a tragedy. I do not know what justification there was for the previous Government's putting that prohibition into the Act which set up the ANL, but it is there. It is true that we do not want a return to the old bull system. It was not the bulldog system, as the honourable member for Griffith described it. A bulldog system would suggest that the system smacked of aggressiveness. It was known as the bull system because people had to work like a bull to get into the bull gang. People went into the bull ring and were selected by the stevedoring foreman, not according to their bulldog characteristics but according to their capacity to emulate a bull while they were at work. It was called the bull gang. 
It was not abolished in the year that the honourable gentleman said; it was abolished in 1944 when the Labor Government came into office. The honourable member is very young and he is very knowledgeable but his memory is not very good. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 and 2- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 3. 
Section 5 of the Stevedoring Industry Charge Act 1947-1973 is amended- 
by omitting from paragraph (a) the words 'One dollar fifty cents' and substituting the figures '$2.50 '; 
by omitting from paragraph (b) the words 'One dollar seventy-five cents' and substituting the figures '$3.50'; and 
by omitting from paragraph (c) the words 'One dollar twenty cents ' and substituting the figures '$2.50 '. 
I should like to raise a matter of procedure. It would save time, since the honourable member for Corangamite wishes to have a vote on the amendments, if we could take the 4 amendments to clause 3 together. 
I wish to intervene at this stage before the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron- one could almost say the bulldog for Griffith- rises to speak. There are some things about what the honourable member for Corangamite (Mr Street)  said that disturb me. The charges that are proposed are based upon the assumption of $ 11m a year for idle time. The honourable gentleman pointed out that at the moment we are running at the rate of $ 15m annually for idle time. For the sake of the record, I should like to say that, as the honourable gentleman pointed out, employers are taxed through the charge for every man hour in which they employ a waterside worker. Proceeds of the charge are then used by the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority to meet its statutory requirements. I can tell the honourable gentleman that I am a full bottle on this because the Acting Director of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority,  Mr Bellew,  is here in the advisers chair and we have none less than  Mr Norman  K. Foster, a well-known authority on the industry, also sitting in the chamber. So I advise honourable gentlemen opposite to be very careful how they handle what they like to pass off as facts. 
The statutory functions of the Authority are detailed in the Act. For present purposes, however, the most significant commitments are payments to the long service leave fund and as idle time payments. The honourable gentleman has recognised that. The amounts apportioned out of the charge to these areas can vary quite considerably depending on the level of the stevedoring activity. When a lot of imports came into the country, as in 1974, the amount of idle time was not as great as it is now. The 3 rates of charges are payable in respect of the 3 separate classes of waterside workers. They are outlined in the Bill. There is no need for me to go over those again. The charge is only one of the several factors which go into accumulating the total cost of employing a waterside worker. That cost also includes such factors as the award rates of pay which have to be paid as at the time the work is carried out, private levies and other private employer costs. During the early 1970s the former Government decided against increasing the charge in an effort to encourage the parties to the stevedoring industry agreement to agree to redundancy within the industry as an alternative means of meeting increasing costs. There is no doubt that that had the effect that the Government set out to achieve. 
Responsibility for the repayment of the debt has been contested within the industry. Quite frequently, different points of view will be heard and it has been the subject of a large number of reports and submissions which I have received since I have been Minister for Labor and Immigration. Any short term arrangement to repay the debt would seriously disturb commercial arrangements within the industry and would require parliamentary endorsement and resolution of the matter to be taken into consideration in discussions concerning permanent arrangements in the industry. May I say this also: If we were to reduce the maximum amount which we can now charge to the figure suggested by the honourable member for Corangamite, we would have to face the fact that this Parliament would have to meet every 6 months to decide whether there was to be a further charge. If honourable members opposite are prepared to do that, while I do not say that is well and good, that is what they will have to be prepared to do. At 30 June 1975, the fund liability will be of the order of $23,300,000. 
-Yes, it will. Investments will total only $10m and the fund will be deficient by $ 13,300,000. The charge is based on man hours worked and therefore income from the charge reflects the level of stevedoring activity and wage movements within the industry. So honourable members can see what happens. The less work that is done on the waterfront, the more idle time there is. But because there is less work, the levy collected is less though the commitment for idle time is greater. The level of stevedoring activity remained buoyant right through 1974 because of the high level of imports. It declined rapidly in 1975 because of the low level of imports. This was in reaction not only to the Government's tariff policy but also to the Government's policies on import quotas. As I have explained already the difficulties created by this rapid fall in activity and income is compounded by the correspondingly rapid rises in expenditure on idle time for waterside workers for whom there is no work available. The exact extent of this downturn in activity could not be plotted with any accuracy until early 1975. In other words, what I am saying is that we had no way of being able to anticipate this situation 1 8 months ago. It was not until the early part of this year that we were in a position to be able to plot with any accuracy the course that we ought to be following in respect of charges. 
Similarly, the factor of wage movements could not have been forecast with any accuracy because the indexation arrangements for waterside workers were dependent upon developments early in 1973. As honourable members will all know, waterside workers have an agreement under which their rates are increased at about this time each year to a point that brings them to within ninety-three point something per cent of the average weekly earnings. Information handed to me only this afternoon indicates that the seasonally adjusted average weekly earnings today have climbed to $ 1 52 a week. Who knows, having regard to the rate of increase of something like 36 per cent that has occurred in the last 12 months, what the average weekly earnings will be when the time comes around for the waterside worker's agreement to be re-adjusted or restored- if it has not already by then reached it- to the 93 per cent of that figure in a year's time. 
The Authority estimates that even if all rates were to be increased by regulation to the current maxima there would be a shortfall in the income per month in the vicinity of $950,000. 1 can see by the intelligent look on the face of the honourable member for Corangamite that he is listening to me. That is the shortfall per month. I ask honourable members to think of it. If parliamentary passage of the Bill were to be deferred to the Budget session the accumulated shortfall would be in the vicinity of, believe it or not, a $5m deficit between now and the Budget. 
-Well, it is true. Those are the facts. The Authority will necessarily have to meet its cash commitments by realising long service leave fund investments, which it has been forced to do on previous occasions. But what a way to run a show. (Quorum formed) I will not take much longer to conclude my remarks. I have already said that the long service leave fund debt already stands in the vicinity of $ 13m. If we continue the undesirable practice of meeting on-going industry costs through the use of long service leave fund moneys our situation will become quite disastrous, and 'disastrous' is not an adjective that over-stresses the situation. Any effort to back date or catch up, assuming the Bill is to be deferred until the Budget session, could involve a 100 per cent increase in the actual rate of the charge, with a consequential increased impact upon commerce. Further, it would not avoid the interim difficulties of having the Authority meet its cash commitments through the use of long service leave fund moneys. We cannot go on running the show in that way- dipping into the long service leave fund moneys to meet current day to day costs. I would, therefore, ask the Opposition to understand that from the point of view of costs we have no alterative but to press for what is being asked for. 
The Government appreciates the point of view put by the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street).  The Government does hope to have this matter resolved by 30 June 1976. It is my hope and it is my prediction that we will have it resolved by then. What we have to understand about this Bill is that this is not an ordinary amendment to an ordinary Act of Parliament. This is a tax machinery Bill. It is quite a different sort of proposition from an ordinary Bill. If Parliament did not meet, for example, immediately before or immediately after 30 June, the industry would be without legal income. 
Yes. I appreciate what the honourable member is saying with respect to May 1976. We might be almost on the verge of being able to introduce permanent legislation, but not quite. We may need to wait until August or September. It would seem to me to be a messy way of doing things, if we were a few weeks short of having our legislation completed, to have to resuscitate the Bill in May in order that we could bridge the small time period which would separate us at that time of the year from the date when we could bring in the permanent legislation. I am sorry that, for those reasons, I cannot accept the amendment. I have been advised by  Mr Bellew,  who is an authority on this matter- he does not take sides one way or the other; he is purely professional in relation to it- of the technical difficulties which could arise if by some chance we find ourselves without legal authority to make the collections, and that means without legal authority also to make the payments. 
-Apprenticeship training is a matter of great concern to the Government and earlier this year the Government decided to give to employers a subsidy of an amount equal at that time to $3 1 a week for every first-year apprentice who was put on in the early part of the year. As a result of that subsidy, I am pleased to be able to say, the number of apprentices that has been taken on by employers has increased quite considerably above the number that it was thought would be the maximum that would be recruited before the subsidy was agreed upon. It gives me an unusual kind of pleasure to be able to tell the House that the Minister for Labour and Industry in the New South Wales Parliament, my colleague  Mr MacHewitt  has gone on public record in praising what my Government has done in this regard. In fact, he has issued figures to show that the number of apprentices recruited during the first few months of this year will exceed the number recruited in the same period of the previous year. We must remember that the number in that previous year was a record- a total of 43 000 having been recruited for the whole of Australia, against a previous total of 32 000, representing an increase of more than 30 per cent in one year. For the recruitment this year to have reached such heights as it already has, in a year when there has been a sharp economic downturn, is, in itself, testimony of the success of the Government's subsidy for apprenticeship training. 
I did see the article and I was expecting somebody from the Opposition to ask a question on it. Knowing the author of it, members of the Opposition realised that to ask a question on the article would have put them in jeopardy of being made to look fools. Of course the honourable gentleman who asks the question does so in a different sense. He virtually discredits the article from the beginning, and he is right in doing so. There have never been at any time 1000 people on income maintenance who were serviced from the CES office at Northcote. The most people who have been in receipt of income maintenance from Northcote at any one time has been 380, and at present only 100 are in receipt of such maintenance. At no time has there been a crowd of 1000 people queued up to get into the Northcote office. In fact, if that number of people were queued they would stretch back for something like half a mile and it is almost certain that they would be seen by people other than just  Mr Samuel. Mr Samuel  is notorious for the campaign of denigration that he has been waging against the Department of Labor and Immigration for the last several months, if not for the last couple of years.  Mr Samuel  does not intend to allow the facts to spoil a good story. That is the way he operates. If he finds that the facts do not fit the story the facts are dropped and the story is published nonetheless. Another statement made by  Mr Samuel  in relation to the Department was: 
Its insensitivity in dealing with people is notorious, the latest example being cited is the action of a major Melbourne branch. 
He then went on to tell this imaginary story about everybody on income maintenance payments being told to turn up at the one time and about the number of people who in fact turned up being 1000. This is not true. I even suspect that it is a lie and that  Mr Samuel  knows that it is not true. But  Mr Samuel  is not prepared to allow lies to stand in the way of publishing something which he feels will have a denigrating effect upon the Department of Labor and Immigration. 
I thank the honourable member for Sydney for the excellent suggestion that brochures be issued to all trade unions throughout Australia, explaining to their members the facilities that shortly will be available to trade unionists in the line of trade union training. An allocation of $3m was made in the last Budget to meet the cost of the Trade Union Training College and the State training centres. Unfortunately, all of that allocation Will not be spent because the College has not yet been built. The Cabinet has decided, however, that the College will be built. The Trade Union Training Authority Bill, which was passed by both Houses of the Parliament, authorises the building of the College. When the College is completed we will be able to offer these further facilities to unionists and thus make Australia the most advanced country in the world in the field of trade union training. Of all countries in the world, Australia will stand out as a beacon light for others to follow. 
It is more than a year since I wrote letters in that strain- at least 1 8 months or thereabouts. 
It was at a time when the Government had not taken a decision and when the matter was the subject of public debate. It is true that I sent out many letters to trade unions and to members of the Public Service, telling them that in my view the cost of the scheme would be astronomical if it were applied to everybody in the community. That is common knowledge. My remarks were published at the time in the union journals, most of which attacked me for the views that I held. 
Since that time I have put my side of the question to the Cabinet and the combined wisdomand may I add perhaps the greater wisdom- of the Cabinet and the Caucus has seen fit to take an opposite view, and I stand by that view. 
I am informed that the answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Interdepartmental Committee consists of representatives of: 
Department of Labor and Immigration Department of Social Security Department of Foreign Affairs Department of Education Department of Police and Customs Department of the Media Department of Housing and Construction Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet 
Membership of the Interdepartmental Committee is not fixed. For each meeting Departments are represented by those senior officers who are responsible for or most familiar with items listed for discussion at that meeting. In general, Departmental representation is at the level of First Assistant Secretary or equivalent. 
On 1 April 1975 there was a meeting of the Permanent Heads (or their representatives) of participating Departments to lay down guidelines for the future operation of the Interdepartmental Committee. On 13 May the first meeting of the Interdepartmental Committee was held. 
The principal functions of the Interdepartmental Committee are to exchange information and to promote coordination and co-operation between Departments involved in aspects of immigration or migrant settlement, rather than to examine and recommend on substantive matters of policy. Therefore, it  is  not expected that formal reports (other than meeting notes) will be prepared. 
I have looked at the newspaper report of the matter referred to, and it is true that  Mr Punch  is reported as having said that the RED scheme is an outstanding condemnation of central control. I will deal with that first. It is not centrally controlled, if control by Canberra is what is envisaged by the term. The scheme is controlled by State committees in each of the 6 States on which State governments are represented by officers of their Public Works Department or Local Government Department. In New South Wales every project of less than $100,000 is vetted and approved by the State committee on which  Mr Punch's  own 2 Departments, Local Government and Public Works, are represented. More than 4 000 projects have been approved in New South Wales since the RED scheme was introduced. 

 Mr Punch has not taken enough interest in his alleged disquiet about the scheme to write to me, ring me or in any way communicate with me to tell me about the alleged maladministration of the scheme. It appears from the newspaper report that he refers to a show society which asked for $90,000 and which eventually got $150,000. He says that applicants get more than they ask for. We were able to identify this project because it was over $150,000, and there are not many over $150,000. We were able to find out that the Glen Innes Show Society on 17 December made an application for $95,000 to the State committee, indicating that it could not. give precise details of the project but that $95,000 would do. The State committee said: 'You have to give precise details. We want to know where the money will be spent and how the expenditure will be made up. You will have to sit down and prepare proper estimates. When you have done that send in another application'. When it completed these estimates on 6 February it found that the total cost of the project would be $151,000 not $95,000 which was a guesstimate only in the first instance. The State committee on which  Mr Punch's  2 delegates were represented unanimously approved the project for Glen Innes. Because the project was to cost over $150,000 they recommended to the officers' committee that it be approved. The officers' committee approved it and it was recommended to the RED Ministers for approval, and it was duly approved. 

 Mr Punch went on to say that there had been instances of sponsors getting money for which they had not asked. We know of no such instances. I know of no possible way a sponsor could get money for which he had not asked. Applications have to go to the State committee. They have to be examined by the State committee, vetted by the State committee and approved by the State committee.  Mr Punch's  complaint really rests upon the fact that under the RED scheme Federal members of Parliament are brought into consultation about the spending of money in their respective districts instead of the matter being handled entirely by State members of Parliament. The other thing that he resents- and this is resented by all State Premiers- is that local government authorities are now able to get money directly from the Australian Government. The State governments want the local government authorities to be be forced to go cap in hand to them. They in turn will come to the Premiers Conference, demand money from the Australian Government and then hand out patronage given to them by the Federal Government to their respective State members of Parliament. So far as we can ascertain there is absolutely no foundation of truth in the charge made by  Mr Punch. Mr Punch  has not had the decency even to ring me or to write me about the allegations. If they are true and as serious as he says they are, he had a bounden duty as a Minister of the Crown to write to me, the responsible Minister, and tell me about it. 
First of all, it is not proposed to wind down the RED scheme. It would be a stupid act to wind down this scheme. It is the best thing going for Australia at the moment and certainly the best thing going for the Government. So there is no proposal to wind down the RED scheme. Secondly, there is no blame to be laid at the feet of my Department about the alleged failure to spend money in the Brisbane area. The truth of the matter is that the amount that was agreed upon related to the whole period until completion of the project. However, the amount of money that can be paid from the allocation in this year's Budget can only be taken up to 30 June and any additional amount that has not been spent out of the total amount approved would have to come from the next appropriation. That is all there is to it. There is nothing more to it. It is nobody's fault. It is not the fault of Alderman Jones. It is not the fault of the Australian Government. I repeat that there is no intention to wind down the RED scheme. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report entitled 'Survey of Views of Local Government Authorities Relating to Immigrant Settlement and Integration'. 
It is estimated that the number of people unemployed would be 63 000 more than there are now if no Regional Employment Development scheme was operating and also if the National Employment and Training scheme was not operating. There are 13 000 people under the NEAT scheme, and they are not included in the unemployment figures. In round figures, there are 25 000 people directly employed under RED. It is estimated that another 25 000 persons are employed in providing materials and ancillary employment for those who are directly employed by the RED scheme. 
The surveys by the Bank are always, in my view, a more accurate assessment of the unemployment position than are the figures that are released from the Department of Labor of the number of registrants for employment, which is an altogether different measurement from the one which the Australian Bureau of Statistics and the ANZ Bank set out to achieve. The position is that there is a marked improvement in the employment or the unemployment position. The figures for the month just ended show that there has been a very substantial drop in the number of registrants for employment. 
-The seasonally adjusted figures have not been worked out yet, but I say to the honourable member: Do not smile too soon. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Yes. 
Erica Enright. . 
Yes. Miss Enright arrived in Australia on a visitor visa on 22 October 1974 and was granted authority to remain in Australia for six months. On 31 October 1974 her status was varied to enable her to undertake employment whilst in Australia. 
and (5) Miss Enright departed from Australia on 29 January 197S. She re-entered Australia as a visitor on 13 February 1975 and was granted a temporary entry permit for six months stay. Her present whereabouts are not known. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I shall be issuing shortly a detailed report to me by my Department on the first three months operation of the National Employment and Training System (NEAT). I think the honourable member will find that the answers to his question will be provided by that report but if, on reading it, he wants further elaboration I shall do what I can to provide it for him. 
I would invite the honourable member's attention to my answer to part (2) of question number 2 1 79 directed to me by the Leader of the Opposition. 
Generally speaking, applications for periods of fulltime training in excess of one year at university level are decided by me on the recommendation of officers of my Department and cases involving in-plant training in excess of one year are decided by the Central Office of my Department. 
Applications decided at State level include all full-time training at below university level, all full-time training for periods of one year or less and all in-plant training of one year or less. 
Because of workload this has varied from office to office and according to the type and duration of training. In many cases, applications can be decided at the local office of CES and the normal delay in resolving such cases has been about two weeks. However, applications for training that would involve relatively high levels of expenditure because of their duration, for example, need careful consideration at the Central and Regional Offices of my Department. This often requires further information being sought from CES, the applicant, training institutions and other Government agencies. The normal delay in resolving such cases has been from four to six weeks but cases were taking up to twelve weeks or longer to be decided. 
As a result of special measures instituted by my Department, generally there is now very little or no delay in the processing of NEAT applications in CES and the time being taken to handle the types of cases I have just referred to is being reduced progressively. 
Care of the Aged (Question No. 2279) 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
2197 applications for training under the NEAT System were received in Western Australia for the 6 months period October 1974 to end March 1975. In addition a number of persons in low priority groups who may have otherwise applied have been advised that their cases could not be considered at the present time. 
Of the applications, (a) 1 106 were approved, (b) 733 were rejected, (c) none were deferred, and (d) 330 were awaiting decision. In addition, 28 applicants withdrew thenapplications before approval. 
NEAT Scheme (Question No. 2558) 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At 2.5.75, 590 female persons were in training under the NEAT System in Western Australia. Of these trainees, approximately 40 per cent are married. 
Of the female persons in training in Western Australia at 2.5.75, 74 per cent were in full-time training, 1 8 per cent in in-plant training, 7 per cent in part-time training and 1 per cent undertaking correspondence courses. The type of training being undertaken is most diverse. However, the majority of training programs being undertaken by female trainees falls into 2 main categories: 
Clerical and secretarial and 
b ) Professional, e.g. teacher, social worker, librarian. 
The length of training for female trainees in Western Australia is broadly as follows: 
1-6 months- 55 per cent. 
6-12 months- 10 per cent, (in) 1-3 years- 3 5 percent. 
I rise to take part in this debate in order to set some facts straight and to answer some of the false statements made by honourable members opposite. I have not time to deal with them all because there were too many speakers and each of them made too many false allegations for me to deal with them all in 15 minutes. I will have to content myself with the remarks made by the last  speaker.  The right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  gave great credit to himself in particular and in a general sort of way to the government of which he was a member for the fact that he raised a loan in November 1968 for Swiss francs at a rate of interest of 5.5 per cent. What he did not tell the House was that in order to get it he paid a commission of 5.06 per cent. No one can give a person much credit for raising a loan anywhere if that person was prepared to pay 5.06 per cent commission. Nothing like that is charged in respect of the Khemlani proposal that I propose to deal with later. 
The right honourable gentleman went on to say that the Opposition is not complaining about the borrowing; it is not complaining about the amount. It is the means by which the amount was borrowed and the kind of people by which the transaction was carried out that causes its worry. He went on to say that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was the mastermind behind this transaction with Khemlani. He was not the mastermind; I was the mastermind. I was the one who discovered  Mr Karidis  and if it had not been for me finding  Mr Karidis  the Government would never have got near the point of being able to raise enough money to give Australia ownership of its own natural gas, ownership of its own uranium enrichment plants, the right to own its petrochemical industry and the right to put a pipeline from west to east across this continent. I was the one who discovered  Mr Karidis  and without  Mr Karidis,  the Minister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Connor,  would never have come into the picture and the Prime Minister would never have had the satisfaction which he must surely enjoy of having been present at an Executive Council meeting which formally authorised the borrowing of the money which came solely as a result of my enterprise and the fact that I knew somebody who was able to tell us we could get money we badly needed. 
In this country we have to decide whether we will allow the ownership of our natural resources to be controlled by the Australian people or whether we will hand it over to foreign enterprise and foreign investors. I am sick and tired, and so is every other Australian, of seeing our natural resources golloped up by foreign investors so that we, the people of Australia, then lose control of our own assets. I am tired of that and I hope that the day will come when I will have the great satisfaction of making some small contribution to stopping the rot that  Sir John  McEwen complained about of selling off a bit of the farm each year. I thought that I might one day be able to make a small contribution. Never did I realise in my wildest dreams that I would make the contribution which I believe I can still make because I believe that this loan can still be brought about. There is no criticism from honourable members opposite about the rate of interest. How can there be when we look at the rates of interest that they paid on loans when they were in government? There is no criticism of the amount of money because nobody can deny that $4,000m is needed if we are to set up our own petro-chemical industries, instal a trans-continental gas pipeline, have an uranium enrichment plant or exploit our natural resources as we ought to do. We need every penny of this amount. In fact,  Sir Charles  Court has discovered that you need about $4,000m to do anything worthwhile. In the 'Bulletin' of 1 February it is stated: 
West Australian Premier  Sir Charles  Court may be about to pull off an enormous political and economic coup at the expense of the Whitlam Government, according to stories circulating in Canberra. Court is said to have organised the financing of a West Australian government merchant bank, similar to the Whitlam Government's Australian Industries Development Corporation, during his visit to the United States. 
The 'West Australian' newspaper had this to say in its edition, of 19 June 1975, a more recent date: 
The State Government intends to begin direct negotiations with the Woodside-Burmah consortium to bring the NorthWest shelf natural gas discoveries into production. It will neither seek the approval of the Australian Government nor wait on the outcome of the High Court dispute over off-shore sovereignty ... It would cost about $4,000m to get the project off the ground. 
I ask the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott),  who has made a complaint, to listen to this. The newspaper article continues: 
It believes this could be one way of by-passing the traditional Commonwealth-States financial relationship. 
Honourable members opposite talk about bypassing the Australian Loan Council. They talk about deception and about not telling the people what is happening. When did their government ever tell the people what kinds of commissions they paid and what kinds of interest rates they paid during the 23 years that they were in government. When did honourable members opposite ever tell the people what they had done? It is any wonder that the people that they chose to give a monopoly over the raising of loans overseas for the Australian Government are concerned that somebody else is likely to muscle in on what they believe to be their sole preserve? I would like to know how much money went into the campaign funds of the Liberal Party of Australia and the National Country Party from the Morgan Guaranty Trust Company. Would not that company pay in order to get a LiberalNational Country Party in office by kicking in to the campaign funds? Out of every $100m that was borrowed on behalf of the Australian Government, the company that provided its services to obtain the money would receive $2m clear for doing virtually nothing. Of course, why would not such a company support the previous government? Why would not such a company be disturbed when it thought that somebody else was going to get into these nice pickings? That is what it is all about, excepting for this one other factor. The Government is not prepared to hand over our natural resources to foreign controllers whereas the Opposition is prepared to do so. Some time in September 1 974 a  Mr Jerry  Karidis of Adelaide told me there that he believed that it would be possible for the Australian Government to raise a long term loan of a substantial amount at about an 8 per cent interest rate. 
It could be either a long term or a temporary loan. They did not care which. I am glad that the honourable member asked that question because instead of being as smart as he thinks he is, he is as silly as I think he is. The fact is that it was not necessarily a long term loan. The term of the loan could be negotiated. So the honourable member is wrong. I state again that it is the silliest interjection he has ever made. I am glad that he made it. I told  Mr Karidis  that the Minister for Minerals and Energy had indicated frequently by public statements that he wanted to see Australia's mineral and energy resources developed in such a way as to ensure that ownership and control would remain in Australian hands and that this could be best achieved, thought  Mr Connor-  and he was so right- through the Government itself becoming involved in these activities. 
Uranium enrichment, the development of gas reserves on the North- West Shelf, the construction of a trans-continental gas pipeline and the establishment of an Australian owned petrochemical industry were some of the projects that the Minister for Minerals and Energy had mentioned at various times. I told the Minister for Minerals and Energy of my conversation with  Mr Karidis  and I asked whether he would be interested in a loan of this kind. He said that he would be interested and that he would like to discuss the matter with  Mr Karidis.  I arranged for such a meeting. The meeting was attended by the Minister for Minerals and Energy;  Dr Cairns,  who was at that time, I believe, the Acting Prime Minister; and  Sir Lenox  Hewitt. I hope no one will cast any aspersions on the impeccable character of  Sir Lenox  Hewitt. If any member of the Opposition can stand up and say 'My character is as impeccable as that of  Sir Lenox  Hewitt', they are better men than I think they are. Also, a  Mr Anderson  accompanied  Mr Karidis. 
I thank the Minister for that interjection. Those opposite knighted  Sir Lenox  Hewitt for his impeccability. That indicates what they thought of him. I was present at the meeting which was arranged. At this meeting there was a general but inconclusive discussion in which questions were raised relating to the proposed rates of interest, the terms of the loan and the proposed commission. I notice that eventually  Sir Lenox  Hewitt and the Minister for Minerals and Energy were able to reduce the rate of interest from 8 per cent to an effective 7.92 per cent, which included the commission. The Opposition can put that in its pipe and smoke it and compare it with what it has ever done. 
-They did not get the loan, but in my view they will get it. The money is there. It is the only place in the world where one can get money of that magnitude. 
-The honourable member says that it is not there. That is all he is complaining about, is it? 
-Right. The honourable member is complaining only that it is not there. I can tell this House that I am certain that the money is there and I am certain that before very long the Minister for Minerals and Energy will be vindicated; he will be able to come into this House with the $4 billion in his hand, obtained at the rate of interest that I have mentioned. I believe that he will still bring it off. 

 Mr Karidis promised to supply information and the Minister for Minerals and Energy and  Sir Lenox  Hewitt undertook to examine the legal position of the authorities under the control of the Minister in relation to the raising of loans. In the second week in October  Mr Karidis  sent a telex message addressed to me and the Minister for Minerals and Energy care of my Adelaide office, because the Minister for Minerals and Energy at that time did not have a telex machine and all the messages that had to come by telex had to come through my office in Adelaide or my office in Canberra.  Mr Karidis  - 
-The honourable member should not keep asking questions. I wish I had time to answer all his interjections, because he strengthens my case every time he opens his mouth.  Mr Karidis  subsequently indicated that he had made contact with a  Mr Khemlani  who claimed to be in a position to make direct contact with Middle East oil interests who had large sums of money to lend. I repeat: I still think that  Mr Khemlani  will succeed in raising the funds and I still believe that my colleague eventually will get the $4,000m for Australia's development. 
Subsequently  Mr Karidis  called at my office with  Mr Khemlani,  whom he introduced as the person who was able to make contact with the Arab principals.  Mr Karidis  asked me to arrange for him to be introduced to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. This arrangement was made and when the meeting took place  Mr Karidis  made the introduction of  Mr Khemlani  to the Minister for Minerals and Energy because, although courtesy demanded that I do it, I had forgotten his name by the time we met the Minister for Minerals and Energy. I had to turn to  Mr Karidis  and ask him to make the introduction. At this meeting no negotiations whatsoever concerning the loan proposal were carried out in my presence. Right from the very first day I had spoken to  Mr Karidis  I had explained to him that it would be  Mr Connor  who would have to carry out the negotiations because he had the responsibility of carrying out those kinds of investments. However, I did indicate- as I am indicating now, and as I have indicated everywhere for years; and I did it again then- in  Mr Khemlani  's presence that I fully supported  Mr Connor's  aim of trying to gain maximum Australian ownership of Australian mineral and energy reserves and to stop any further foreign ownership and control of our natural resources. 
I do not think anybody here will doubt the character and the standing of the Minister for Minerals and Energy. What the Opposition does not like about the Minister for Minerals and Energy is that its wealthy friends cannot bribe him as they used to be able to bribe some of the Opposition's party officials at election time. That is what the Opposition does not like about him. Its wealthy friends cannot bribe him in the way that they could bribe the Opposition's party officials at election time. The Opposition does not like the fact that the Minister for Minerals and Energy stands as true as steel in the interests of the Aus.tralian people and, on this particular occasion, was on the brink of being able to pull off the greatest coup in the interests of Australia. That is what the Opposition is upset about. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to question on notice No. 2789. (Weekly Hansard No. 1 1, 5 June 1975, pages 3546-3547). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to question on notice No. 2586 (Weekly Hansard No. 1 1, 5 June 1975, page 3545). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Meteorological installations damaged: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised that: 
The cost to the Australian Government of the programs since 1 97 1 -72 is as follows: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised that: 
1 ) The advertising budget for the Department of Science and Consumer Affairs for 1975-76 is expected to be of the order of $97,000. 
The types of advertising include notification of departmental vacancies, and advertisements inviting applications for: fellowships- e.g. Queen 's Fellowships in Marine Science; grants-e.g. Australian Research Grants. 
Grants and fellowships are advertised both locally and overseas. 
The corresponding figures for previous years, following the creation of the Department of Science in December 1972, are as follows: 
1973- 74-$74,900 
1974- 75-$87,000 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised that: 
Financial assistance is available by way of grants through the following schemes administered by my Department and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization (CSIRO). 
Department of Science and Consumer Affairs 
Australian Research Grants. 
Australian Biological Resources Study. 
Research into Crown of thorns starfish. 
Queen Elizabeth II Fellowships. 
Queen's Fellowships. 
vi) US/Australia Agreement for Scientific and Technical Co-operation. 
CSIRO 
Grants to research associations. 
Grants to other national bodies where support by the Australian Government is channelled through CSIRO. 
Extra-mural grants to universities and similar bodies. 
Grants from the Science and Industry Endowment Fund (SIEF) 
Information on the schemes is advertised or made available to interested persons or bodies as follows: 
Department of Science and Consumer Affairs 
Australian Research Grants and Grants for Research into Crown of thorns starfish: Notices to Universities and relevant research organisations. 
Australian Biological Resources Study Grants, Queen Elizabeth II and Queen's Fellowships: Press advertisements. 
US/Australia Agreement for Scientific and Technical Co-operation: Background information is forwarded on request. 
CSIRO 
Availability of grants under these schemes is not advertised in detail but by reference to CSIRO Annual Reports and from general knowledge within the scientific community, interested parties would be aware of the existence of these schemes. 
I refer the honourable member to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development's reply to part 3 of question on notice No. 269 1 . 
The information provided above is supplementary to that provided by my predecessor,  Mr Morrison,  in his replies to Questions on Notice Nos 95 and 1570 (House of Representatives Hansard, 5 December 1974, pp. 4857-62 and 8 April 1975, pp. 13 to 22-3 respectively). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed that: 
The samples were purchased as part of a survey to obtain background information on the mercury levels in fish supplied to the ordinary consumer such as one buying from fish and chips shops. The purchases were made from typical retail outlets without regard to locality. I understand that similar surveys are carried out by State Public Health Inspectors as part of their normal duties. As the purchases made were for information purposes only and not for legal purposes, such as the initiation of prosecutions, it was not necessary to follow the sampling and testing procedures prescribed in the State and Territory legislation relating to the Sale of Food and Drugs e.g. Section 42 of the Food and Drugs Act 1 908- 1 962 (South Australia). 
Where possible one cooked and one uncooked sample were purchased from each shop. 
No. The samples were purchased to obtain information on the mercury that might be contained in fish sold to a consumer at various retail outlets. 
See (2). 
Details of the tests are in the tables below. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised that the Department of Science and Consumer Affairs administers several scientific research support schemes, including the Australian Research Grants Scheme, under which some environmental research projects are funded. 
To date the Department of Science and Consumer Affairs and the Department of Environment have communicated informally on environmental research. It is expected that the establishment of the Bureau of Environmental Studies will allow closer consultation in the future. 
The Bureau of Environmental Studies was established inter alia, to co-ordinate environmental research. In many areas this will simply involve maintaining a general awareness of existing well managed research programs, and communicating informally with the responsible agencies. As a practical matter the Bureau will tend to direct its attention to identifying major gaps in environmental research, with a view to improving knowledge in these areas. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised that: 
The announcement of the La Trobe University Library's computerised 'on-line cataloguing system' (copy attached) has been noted with interest, and the further development of the system will be watched carefully. 
The application of computers to this important area of library operation in La Trobe University is however only one of the many such applications now being developed by libraries in Australia. Indeed, since 1970 there has been an association of individuals and institutions concerned in this field: the Library Automated System Information Exchange (LAS IE), which has approximately 200 members. Although this is a matter for my colleague the Special Minister of State, as I understand it the extent to which common computer networking can develop among Australian libraries, including that of La Trobe, may depend on the results of feasibility studies on an 'Australian Library-based Information System (ALBIS)'. These studies, which are now commencing in the National Library of Australia, are intended to provide a national framework within which all library and information services operate in a co-ordinated way. 
The CSIRO computer network, strictly defined, is not connected for library or scientific information purposes to any other networks at the present time. 
However, the library and information services of CSIRO are freely available to the Australian community outside CSIRO. This is ensured through a vigorous inter-library loan activity (CSIRO lends considerably more material than it borrows); through the marshalling of the scientific and technical expertise of CSIRO scientists in answering the tens of thousands of inquiries received from all sections of the Australian community; and through offering subscriptions to CSIRO's computerised information service on the same basis to outside subscribers as to CSIRO 's own scientists. 
Co-ordination of CSIRO activities with other national initiatives in these fields is effected through the participation of CSIRO on all the relevant national and other professional bodies. Such bodies are the Interdepartmental Committee of the Australian Library-based Information System (ALBIS) the National Library's Advisory Council on Science and Technology; the Australian Advisory Council on Bibliographical Services (AACOBS); the Library Association of Australia and others. CSIRO policy is to collaborate with ail library and information services in Australia or overseas where such collaboration may be of mutual benefit or in the national interest, and to co-ordinate and further develop its own services wherever appropriate within the general framework of the ALBIS program mentioned above. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised that: 
1 ) European carp are known to exist in South Australia New South Wales and Victoria. Sightings have also been reported from Tasmania. Because of the carp's migratory habits and rate of proliferation and from the experience in the United States, there is reason be believe this species may eventually reach the other Australian States. 
In Victoria, European carp are known to be present in the River Murray System, the Yallourn Storage, Morwell River, Tyers River, La Trobe River, Thomson River, MacAllister River, Avon River, Perry River, Gippsland Lakes, Nicholson River, Tambo River, Stony and Boggy Creeks, Snowy River, Yarra River, Maribyrnong River, Goulburn River, Sewens Creek, Broken River, Broken Creek, Campaspe River, Laanecoorie Reservoir, Avoca River, Kerang Lakes, Lake Hawthorn and Yarrawonga Weir. 
In Victoria, the spread described has occurred since 1963. South Australian authorities reported recently that 'since 1962, there has been a population explosion of the European carp in some southern Australian freshwater rivers, first in the Gippsland area of Victoria and later in the Murray-Darling River System*. Once carp have entered a system through which they can migrate, apparently their spread is reasonably rapid. 
The main cause for concern is the damage to native aquatic flora and fauna. The turbidity of waters containing carp results from muddying of the water during feeding and spawning. The carp compete for food and space in the ecosystem. Turbidity interferes visually with feeding by other species of fish, is physically unacceptable to certain fish, affects the breeding sites and impedes development of eggs of other fish, and decreases light penetration, causing a reduction in primary productivity and aquatic plant growth. 
Certain water systems have been seriously affected by the presence of carp. Water that is muddied by the fish requires additional filtration and treatment. The greater quantity of chemicals required for the treatment increases the cost of the water and decreases its palatability. 
South Australia has applied to the Australian Water Resources Council Research Fund for funds to study populations of carp but was referred to the Australian Fisheries Council. Standing Committee on Fisheries, on the initiative of the States concerned, has also referred the matter to the Australian Fisheries Council. 
CSIRO has undertaken no research on carp. New South Wales and South Australia have biologists undertaking research on this species. 
Noxious fish legislation was passed in Victoria and South Australia to prohibit transfer within the State. Once established, especially in a large river system, effective eradication is extremely difficult. No poisons specific for carp are known. The use of fences and dykes, electric barriers and water level controls are potential control measures but would be difficult to implement, expensive, and not specific to carp. Increased market demand might increase commercial fishing effort. 
9) CSIRO has made no direct contact overseas. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised that: 
The research in question is a further step in CSIRO's long-term program of assessment of Australia's demersal and pelagic fishery resources- that is, open sea fisheries off the Australian coast. 
It has always been CSIRO's policy to conduct original studies, and the Organisation will not unnecessarily duplicate research carried out by any other authority in its program on the fisheries of south-eastern Australia. That program has been developed with the approval and cooperation of the appropriate committees and subcommittees of the Standing Committee of the Australian Fisheries Council, on which fisheries authorities of all States and the Australian Government are represented. The relevant committees and sub-committees are the SouthEastern Fisheries Committee and its Trawl and Pelagic Fish Research Group. The last named Group was formed in mid- 1974 specifically to co-ordinate research and development programs on trawl and pelagic fisheries in southeastern Australia, and has discussed CSIRO's proposals on several occasions. It includes representatives of fisheries authorities in all south-eastern States. 

 Courageous will be based in Sydney because CSIRO's Division of Fisheries and Oceanography has its headquarters there and the necessary technical services- including the services of CSIRO's own electronics technicians- are readily available there to ensure satisfactory installation, operation, and maintenance of the sophisticated equipment she will carry. After the initial shakedown period, however, Courageous will operate over a large area in the Tasman Sea carrying out work complementary to that of State fisheries authorities, and will make use of any convenient port with adequate facilities. 

 Courageous is a considerably larger vessel than  Kapala-  350 versus 225-tons- and has the capacity for longer and more extensive cruises. She can accommodate 14 crew and scientists adequately to sustain a round-the-clock operation without returning to port for several weeks. The basic pattern proposed is 21 days at sea followed by a week in port, with of course longer times in port for periodical overhaul. It will thus be quite feasible to operate anywhere from Brisbane to Hobart even on those occasions when it is necessary to return to Sydney between cruises. 
The ability to stay at sea for extended periods will make it possible to work up to 500 miles off-shore and thus to study true open ocean resources as well as those on or over the continental shelf. 
The other significant difference between the two vessels is that  Courageous,  unlike  Kapala,  will be equipped to generate an estimate of the weight and number of fish under her swept path by having a computer interpret the signals received from two echosounders. This interpretation will be supplemented by netting and other forms of fishing to identify the kinds of fish being enumerated. Finally, the ship will be equipped to do basic environmental work including temperature and salinity profiles and plankton tows. 
CSIRO's forward planning includes the possibility that  Courageous  may spend the 1977 calendar year on a survey off the north-western coast of Australia, where a major fishery resource probably exists. 
Apart from the possibility that  Courageous  may locate offshore fisheries capable of supporting a major new industry that might, under favourable economic circumstances, compete with imported fish, fish meal and other fish products, there is an urgent need to obtain information about Australia's off-shore marine resources because of the proposal by the United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea for the establishment of a 200-mile exclusive economic zone. This proposal has been accepted in principle by almost every Conference participant. If finally adopted, Australia will be responsible for the management of marine resources within the 200-mile zone around her shores. 

 Courageous is privately owned and is under charter to CSIRO for three years, fully crewed, maintained and serviced, at a cost of approximately $440,000 per annum, subject to rise and fall adjustments after June 1976. 
I have written to the Prime Minister about this matter. The contents of my letter of course are confidential at the moment. So I do not intend to enlarge upon the quite lengthy letter that I wrote to the Prime Minister about this matter some 4 or 5 days ago. It would be quite rude of me to do so and I know the honourable members would not want me to do so. 
The answers to the right honourable member's questions are as follows: 
I am advised that- 
The total installation cost of the CSIRO 's computer network since the Government approved its inception in 1 962 has been approximately $ 10,000,000. 
Running and maintenance costs of the network in 1974-75 were $2,587,000 all of which was recovered by charges to CSIRO and other users of the network. 
All computer processing is carried out on the CSIRO's Cyber 76 and CD3600 computers at Canberra. An extensive communications system using Telecom lines permits access to the Canberra facilities from more than thirty batch terminals and more than two hundred and fifty inter-active terminals throughout Australia. 
Australian Government Departments and Instrumentalities, State Government Departments and Instrumentalities, Australian Universities and Colleges of Advanced Education, and in extremely rare instances where the work cannot be carried out elsewhere in Australia, commercial users. 
Apart from approximately 1500 CSIRO users, about 1000 officers of the Departments and other users referred to in the answer to Question (4). 
A complex range of scientific and technical calculations which it is impossible to describe simply since more than 3000 jobs are processed daily. The network's facilities are also used for some administrative activities of CSIRO, for example, financial control and salaries and wages processing. 
I did not hear the honourable member's last words. Did he mention a replacement scheme?  (Honourable members interjecting) 

 - Mr Speaker, I have asked what the honourable member means and I have had 5 different explanations from his own side. Could the honourable member repeat the question? 
Yes, it is true that I arranged for copies of the Platform to be sent to senior officers in the Department of Labor and Immigration. I did it for the purpose of enabling them to understand the Government's policy. When the Liberal Party is able to state its policy in a printed platform and if it ever gets into government again I suggest that this would be a very convenient way for it to let officers know its policy. I did not know that the Bureau of Meteorology had received its copies. I am glad that it has. I gave instructions to the Secretary of my Department to see that the Bureau got copies and to ensure that every agency within my ministry received a copy of the Government's policy. 
They are coming in out of the wet, as the Prime Minister says. This is the most convenient way in which the Government can tell the Public Service what its policy is. 
The Labor Party's policy is stated clearly in its Platform. 
Let me mention something against myself. On one occasion I found myself returning a letter to the central office to be rephrased because I did not like the way it was worded. I was simply told by the Department that the letter complied strictly with another section of the Platform which I had instructed officers to carry out. I think it is very sensible for a Party when in government to tell the Public Service what it stands for and to give its policy to the Public Service in black and white so that while that Party is in office the Public Service, whether it agrees with the policy or not, has a duty to carry it out. By giving copies of the Platform to every senior officer in the Department we put those officers in a position of knowing precisely where they stand while a particular Party is in office, although the officer may not necessarily be in favour of the policy. I intend to keep on doing this. In fact now that the question has been raised- the honourable member refers only to the Bureau of Meteorology- I will check to see whether the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation has its copy and whether the Institute of Marine Science has its copy. I will see whether  Mr Norgard  of the Metric Conversion Board has his copy. I will find out whether the Australian Science and Technology Council has its copy. I will have a look at all my colonies to find out whether they have been supplied accordingly. If they have not I will want to know why. 
I now formally ask for leave to incorporate in Hansard a copy of a letter sent to the Prime Minister on the correct pronunciation of kilometre and a copy of the Prime Minister's reply. I also seek leave to have incorporated the cable I referred to earlier. 
Like the Prime Minister earlier in question time I anticipated a question on this matter and I have come very well prepared to answer it. There can be only one right pronunciation; there cannot be 2 right pronunciations of a word like this. It is like saying that one can pronounce the word ' Whitlam' with the T silent or something like that. There is only one correct pronunciation and as Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs I am the one who speaks for the Government on matters relating to scientific terms. I have said that it is KILLoMEtre and KILL-o-MEtre it is. The Prime Minister and I have been friends for a very long time. 
In spite of the occasional difference that we have had on a whole range of subjects we have a very healthy affection for each other. I have for him and I know he has for me. I am sure it will always remain that way. I often wonder why it is that I like him so much, but I do. 
-As I have said during this controversy, I think most people realise that the Prime Minister has a very highly developed sense of humour. I had this brought home to me yesterday, and I shall come to that later. The Prime Minister, in his very well prepared reply to me, which I should like to have incorporated in Hansard together with my letter to him made this comment: 
All English words ending in ' meter ' or ' metre ' derive from the Greek word ' metron ' in which the penultimate syllable is short, the letter 'e' in English reproducing 'epsilon' not 'eta' - 
I am glad the Prime Minister can pronounce that word. I was testing him on that to see whether he would let that go. Anyone who would call a KILLoMEter a kil-OM-eter is likely to make the same mistake with that word. I notice that the Prime Minister knows how to pronounce one word anyway. I was struck by his reference to Greek because in cosier times he confided in me that he had learned or, if not learned, had been taught ancient Greek by no less an authority than  Mr Enoch  Powell. So I took the trouble of telephoning  Mr Powell  at the weekend because  Mr Powell  is a world authority not only on English pronunciation but on Greek pronunciation as well.  Mr Powell  was good enough to tell me quite a deal about the correct pronunciation of KILLoMEter. He promised that he would send me a cable, which I now table for the benefit of the Parliament. It is addressed 'personal for the Honourable Clyde Cameron' and states: 
In response to your telephone inquiry,  Mr Enoch  Powell has asked us to cable the following message to you: Begins You ask whether Greek derivation requires the o in kilometre to be stressed. If so, it would also require the o in kilogram to be stressed. However, kilometre and other kilowords are not Greek words, but artificial formations. The Greek words would have been chiliometre etcetera. In any case classical Greek accentuation was tone, not stress. Correct stress is determined only by usage, not derivation. Ends. 
I thought that the Prime Minister was serious, just for one fleeting moment, until yesterday at the function in connection with the commencement of work on the Australian High Court building when the Prime Minister pronounced ' DECAmetre ' as ' deCAMeter '. 
-That, of course, is wrong too. I think that it is quite a serious matter for a nation like ours to be set on the wrong course so early in the piece in our conversion to the metric system. Honourable members will remember that one of the Georges- I think it was George III- was responsible for turning the Roman four into ' IIII * instead of 'TV', because he insisted that he knew best, he could not be wrong, and so we had English clockmakers using that form of the Roman four. The Prime Minister, unlike George III- if it was George III; it was one of the Georges- has never claimed to be infallible. 
The Prime Minister has never claimed to be infallible. After listening to the Prime Minister pronounce the word 'decametre' as 'deCAMeter' yesterday, my honest opinion is that I can only take it for granted, to coin a rather ungrammatical phrase, that he has taken a lend of the Press and the media generally and of everybody else who thinks that he is serious. 
I have already announced that an amount of $7.2m will be provided for Australian Research Grants Committee grants during the calendar year 1976, and that discussions are taking place with the universities through the Australian Vice-Chancellors Committee to enable an amount of $2.1m to be made available from university resources during the current financial year- covering the period from January to June 1976. The proposed arrangements with the universities will mean that they will be reimbursed the cost of ARGC grants after they have incurred the expenditure instead of in advance of expenditure which is the normal practice. This has been necessary in order to enable the Government to keep within the total expenditure figure of the 1975-76 Budget. The universities will, however, be reimbursed any additional costs arising from the arrangement. 
Although the amount of $7.2m allocated to the ARGC represents a reduction of $ 1.4m over the estimated cost of grants made in 1975, it should be noted that ARGC grants are adjusted each year to take account of academic salary increases and other wage determinations. It should also be noted that the policy adopted for ARGC grants is consistent with the Government's overall strategy of expenditure restraint in the public sector. Nevertheless, the level of ARGC grants endorsed for the calendar year 1976, combined with the temporary financing arrangements for the current financial year which the members of the Australian ViceChancellors Committee have agreed to submit to their respective universities, will permit a high level of employment of researchers to be maintained in that year, after taking account of the normal attrition which takes place from year to year as research projects are completed or fail to merit continuation. The Parliament will appreciate that ARGC grants are intended to encourage research work of the highest calibre and that the only criterion for obtaining a grant is the excellence of the project. Although 1976 will be a holding year for ARGC grants I will be making a submission to Cabinet for a new triennium covering the years 1977-79 in due course. 
The following answer replaces the answer given on 27 August 1975 (pages 678, 679) to Question No. 2787 asked by  Mr Ruddock: 
I am advised that: 
1 ) The cost to the Australian Government of the programs since 1 97 1 -72 is as follows: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised that: 
The following State Government departments and municipalities are current users of the CSIRO computing network: 
On behalf of the Minister for the Media I table for the information of honourable members the annual report for the Department of the Media for the year ending 30 June 1975. 
-The question raised by the honourable member for Casey is one which he has taken up with me by correspondence so it did not catch me altogether by surprise, although I was nearly asleep when he started his question. I have raised this with  Sir Hugh  Ennor, the Permanent Head of my Department, who is a distinguished scientist in his own right and one who, I understand, has conducted experiments on animals himself. He has assured me that every precaution is taken to ensure that there is no unnecessary suffering. In most cases where experimentation is likely to result in death the animal is, of course, to use the common phrase, put to sleep before the experiment takes place. But it is inevitable that there are some experiments in which amputation or surgery is conducted while the animal is under anaesthetic. Naturally when the animal recovers and the results of the experimentation are studied the animal does suffer a great deal of pain which is unavoidable. The only alternative is for us to conduct these kinds of experiments on human beings. The very purpose of the experiments on the animals in most cases is to assist medical science in dealing with the ailments and complaints of human beings. As much as we regret that these experiments on animals are necessary, they are unavoidable if science is to discover or seek to discover ways of easing the sufferings of human beings. 
I can assure the honourable member that my Department is not unmindful of the concern which animal lovers have for these experiments. We are doing, and will continue to do, all that is within our power to ensure that experiments are carried out in a proper, humane and sensible manner. If the honourable gentleman or any other member of the House has any examples of where this has not been the case I would be glad if he would bring such cases to my attention. I can assure honourable members that my Department will act with alacrity in the matter to see that steps are taken to ensure that the experiments are carried out in accordance with the normal procedures that are recognised all over the world as being essential to prevent unnecessary suffering. 
I would like to thank honourable members from both sides of the chamber who have spoken in this debate for the constructive manner in which they have approached the subject. All of them have made thoughtful contributions. All the contributions made will be studied carefully by me. Where they call for a reply, a letter will be sent to each speaker to indicate my response to their remarks. However, I begin by paying a tribute to the Department of Science and Consumer Affairs. I am pleased to note that not one speaker in this debate saw fit to level any criticism against the Department or indeed against me as the Minister. I am not infallible. If I make a mistake it will be a genuine error of judgment. No one can be blamed for making an error of judgment. But so far I have not even been criticised for that. I want to make a passing reference to some disparaging remarks, which I do not intend to repeat, which have been made against th». administration of my Department by source that have not raised their voice, I am glad to say during the debate last night and today. 
I put on record that I am very proud of my Department. It is an extremely good Department, run by dedicated officers. I know those at the top and I have had more to do with them than with those lower down. The head of the Department,  Sir Hugh  Ennor, is an excellent Australian citizen with a first class record in science. He is a scientist of some eminence in his own right. He has the active backing and dedicated support of men like the First Assistant Secretary,  Mr Jack  Lonergan,  Mr Paul  Free and a whole bracket of people immediately beneath them and no doubt further down the line too, who are really dedicated to the work they are doing. They work efficiently and with great speed. They are courteous. They are at all times aware of the position that a Minister holds within the Department. They tender advice fearlessly. They accept the Minister's judgment graciously. If a Minister's judgment does not accord with their own judgment not only do they accept it but they also then do everything that is humanly and physically possible to make a success of the Minister's judgment. No public servant can do more than that. This is the Westminster system in its finest tradition. I put on record that I am extremely proud of my Department and of the officers in it. 
I am proud too of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, as everyone in Australia must be who understands the work which it is doing. It is an organisation that brings pride to Australians travelling overseas. No matter in what country one may have discussions about scientific affairs, one will always find someone who will be loud in his praise for the CSIRO. It is a scientific organisation of world class now. It must give every Australian abroad a great sense of pride to know that something belonging to Australia is so eminently regarded overseas. 
I took note of the remarks of the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  about the Ord River scheme. I do not want to raise the question of who introduced the scheme or who was responsible for it- whether it was this party or some other party. History will answer that. I was impressed by what he said. However, it is fair that I should make the point first of all that the CSIRO was not consulted about the advisability of starting the Ord scheme. I think it was a political judgment made by politicians rather than by scientists. Again I say no more about that matter. We have it and we ought to try to make it work, if it is possible to do so. The CSIRO did not go into the Ord area on a full time basis until 1 July 1974. 1 will look at the complaints made by the honourable member about there not being enough manpower or resource feed-in to the station there. If an honest assessment of the situation leads me to support the view that the honourable member has put I will give directions that more manpower and resource feed-in be provided for the Ord River station. 
As I am speaking officers of my Department and of the CSIRO are making notes of what I say. They will know from what I have said that I want them to examine this matter. I want them to give me an honest, unbiased and rational answer to all the criticisms and comment made by all honourable members on both sides of the chamber and in due course I will have letters prepared and signed for dispatch to each honourable member who has raised a matter of substance in this debate. 
The honourable gentleman talked about pesticides and I am concerned about this matter. I am not sure that the Americans are not right in completely banning DDT, as they have done except in very special circumstances. I know that if one bans DDT one sometimes is forced to fall back on alternatives that are even more devastating. But I am convinced that there is a reckless misuse of DDT. It is being used in areas where it ought not be used and my present intention is to pursue the policy of being generally against its use that I have already indicated to my Department and to the CSIRO but if its use is to continue it must continue only on a very strictly controlled basis. For example, we cannot lose a whole crop of a particular vegetable or cereal just because we have some fixation about DDT. If there is nothing else for it we must measure the cost of allowing the crop to be destroyed or breaking our fixation on DDT. However, the Americans have got along fairly well without it. Some honourable members might recall reading a marvellous book,  Silent Spring,  many years ago about the use of DDT in killing pests in forests adjoining a river. The water became contaminated. Eventually the DDT destroyed all the salmon which provided a very important industry, perhaps one even more important than the trees which the DDT was used to save. It may be that it is an over simplification of the question of pesticides to look at the solution in  Silent Spring  but it does call for something to be done and I intend to do it. I thank the honourable member for making a passing reference to it. 
The honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  made a very thoughtful contribution, in my view, to this debate. I am pleased to hear that both the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  and the honourable member for McPherson have responded to the spirit of the decision taken by me that each of them is to have access to the Department and to departmental officers, subject to proper controls. For instance, they would not expect to have access to Cabinet documents or to documents held by the Department that represented the growing stages of a policy in formation. They are entitled to the maximum amount of information consistent with a government's right to make its policy decisions in a normal atmosphere. They have availed themselves of it. My Department has indicated a willingness to go on helping them as much as possible. If at any time they wish to have a file and they care to name it even that file will be made available to them if upon my prior perusal of it there is nothing in it of a highly confidential nature. They can look at the file in my office should they call for it. No one could make a more generous offer. I do not mind letting people who behave and react responsibly, as these 2 gentlemen have done already, have that kind of concession. It could not be granted to irresponsible people. However while responsible people are holding positions of shadow ministers for respective portfolios I think a Minister ought to feel no reason for not letting them have full support. 
I am sorry that the Science Advisory Council was abolished and that so much time elapsed before something was set up in its place. I do not know enough about the original Science Advisory Council to know whether it was equipped to do the job. Perhaps there was a case for its abolition but there was no case for allowing so much time to go by before a better equipped body was put in its place. We now have the Australian Science and Technological Council established on an interim basis and shortly I will be introducing a Bill to give it the status of legislation so that it will be a permanent feature of government, whether the Liberal Party or the Labor Party is in office. I expect that there will be no opposition to that body being established on a permanent basis. 
There is a need, as the honourable gentleman said, for community involvement in science. Our community does not know enough about science. If it knew more it would become enmeshed in its ramifications just as much as I have. I have said ad nauseam that I never wanted to be Minister for Science. I had no interest, or thought I had no interest, in science and I was certain that nobody would find a way of generating an interest in science on my part. However, thanks mainly to the Department which patiently persisted in persuading me that it was an exciting aspect of life, I am now as excited about science as any scientist possibly could be. If it is possible to turn Clyde Cameron into an excited advocate for science it is possible to turn anyone else in the street, wherever the town may be, into having the same attitude. Science is an exciting thing. The whole community must become more involved. Politicians have to be made responsive to sensible public involvement in science so that they can be made to respond to demands by the public. If this had been the case there would not have been an Ord River. There would not have been some of the other decisions taken by politicians had the community known enough about science to have made an intelligent response to demands by scientists for various assistance and for various projects. 
Accessibility of information, said the honourable member for McPherson, is absolutely vital. I agree with him. I am doing all I can in making information available to all who care to read it. I have instructed my Department that trade unions, consumer groups, academics and everybody else who can be persuaded to take an interest in science should be given copies of speeches I make. Those speeches are noted for one thing: There is practically no party political content in them. They purely contain appeals to the public to involve themselves more deeply in science. 
The honourable gentleman made some reference to 2 Ministers controlling the CSIRO. Four divisions covering energy, solar research and mineral research have been given to the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  and the balance, some 32 divisions, remain with me. There is a very sensible agreement between me and my colleague and between the respective permanent heads. The matter now has been settled on a sensible basis. I think that providing sensible Ministers and sensible permanent heads continue to reign in respective areas there will be no problem. The Australian Research Grants Committee was mentioned by the honourable member. I am glad that he did this also because it is something that I wish to say more about later. 

 Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 

-I have just suffered a rather severe shock. The Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  told me that if I do not shut up he will gag me and if anybody wants to hear me I ought to call a meeting outside. I shall probably have to do that if I want to deal with all the matters that have to be dealt with. The Australian Research Grants Committee is a matter I want to touch on briefly. This question has been resolved, I think. 
The vice-chancellors of the universities have agreed to consider a proposal that was put to them by the  Chairman  of the ARGC and if this proposal is accepted we will overcome the problem in the calendar year, which is the year on which they work, by bringing into the second half of the calendar year a forward payment from the first half of the financial year covered by the 1976-77 Budget. The honourable member for McPherson spoke about astronomy and marine science. I think it is a very nice choice to have to make as to whether preference ought to be given to one over the other. My own tentative position is that if we have to choose between the two, oceanography is more important than astronomy. They are both important but if I were forced to make a decision on one only, because of financial stringency, I should select marine science. 
I turn now to social sciences. I could not agree more with what was said. Social sciences will play a more important role as the years go by. I had a long talk with the director of the Moscow University while I was in Moscow. He told me that the Soviet Union has recognised that the changing pattern of human behaviour is such that a great deal more attention will need to be paid to the social sciences than we now pay. Other people with whom I have discussed the question of social sciences say: 'Of course behavioural sciences and the study of that aspect of science that is wrapped up with the changing patterns of human behaviour under stress need to be given higher priority than we now give them. Even if we make only relatively short term .projections of social science needs for, say, fifteen or ten years time, we have to start thinking about training people in this field now because the first crop of social scientists will not be ready for reaping until some 10 years after the students make the decision to enter the sciences. ' Others will say that instead of training social scientists to manage the crazy rat race into which the world's present civilisation is developing, we ought to be studying what the rat race is all about to try to prevent the rat race so that we do not need the social scientists to make it possible for us to cope with the madness of the present pace of life but that we slow down the pace of living. Again, they are decisions that have to be taken by people better qualified than I am and they are matters which the Australian Science and Technology Council could more properly take on board and, I would hope, will take on board. 
Reverting to the question of astronomy versus oceanography, I can tell the Committee that I have already asked ASTEC to take this matter under its wing and to give a report on which field ought to have top priority and, having decided which should have top priority, then decide how much ought to be set aside for the one chosen for top priority. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  made a comment that I thought worthy of mentioning. He suggested that there ought to be some integration between legal aid services and consumer protection. I must confess that I see a lot of merit in this suggestion. I have talked to the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  about it already. I hope he has an open mind on it, although I think he would rather see the consumer protection activities transferred to the Legal Aid Office than vice versa. I do not think it is necessarily obligatory to do either. I think that each shop front premises that are there for the advice of consumers on protection matters could also have one or two legal officersperhaps one would be enough- to act as referral officers on points of inquiry that come before them. 
The honourable member for Bennelong did not like the idea- I hope this is only a tentative position on his part- of having the integration of the various activities of consumer protection under the one authority. I think he made the point- I hope I have correctly recorded what he said- that he did not think that we could marrythese were not exactly his words but the substance of what he said- product safety with market regulation. He said something to that effect, anyhow. I have taken a great deal of trouble to study what is happening in other parts of the world. Ironically enough, nowhere in the world and nowhere in Australia have governments, until very recently, done much about consumer protection. Yet as a political instrument consumer protection has enormous potential for any human being who is interested in getting votes. Why such people have only just realised that it is a matter of tremendous political mileage is beyond me, although I must confess that I did not realise the potential that lies in consumer protection either, and I have spent all my life working out how to get political votes. 
There is not any doubt that there is tremendous latent interest in consumer protection. The public all around the Western world is now demanding that governments do something about it. Governments that fail to do something about it do so at their peril. The Australian States have only relatively recently come into the field and in that way they are no different from other countries around the world. I have had 2 trips around the world since I became the Minister responsible for consumer protection and I have seen what happens in the North American continent and what has happened in Europe. I am convinced now that integration of these things is absolutely essential if we are to get the best possible results. 
In the United Kingdom there is a considerable amount of integration, certainly more than in the United States. In Sweden the integration is virtually complete. The greater the integration the greater is the protection that can be given. In the United States where there is, as the honourable member correctly said, a great fragmentation of consumer protection activities, I talked to  Chairman  Simpson of the consumer protection authority there and I asked him what was the reason for the fragmentation that has occurred in the United States. He told me that it was the inevitable result of congressional wrangling which goes on under the United States system. He said: If you are only starting afresh then take my advice and do not ever let yourself get into the position that we are in. Try to have an authority that is completely integrated so that it can set the product safety standards, so that it can control the advertising side of the thing and so that it can have market regulation, because otherwise you will run into the same enormous problem as we have. Each of our five or six separate entities works as a law unto itself. If one chooses to disregard the other four or five entities represented in total consumer protection it can do so and consumer protection becomes very difficult, if not impossible'. I had with me  Sir Hugh  Ennor when this conversation took place. 
-He is a good man, an extremely good man.  Sir Hugh  Ennor was present during that conversation with  Chairman  Simpson and as we left that meeting  Sir Hugh  said to me: 'Minister, I could not agree more with the remarks made by  Chairman  Simpson today'. He said: 'We must have an integrated system. We would be mad if we allowed ourselves to get into the position the United States has got into'. There is a great deal of value in a consultative approach. I take it that the honourable member for Bennelong was talking about the need for consultation between the Federal and the State governments. I would like to incorporate in  Hansard  with the leave of the Committee a statement showing the expressions of support or, if not support, then expressions of desire from the State governments to be involved in the Commonwealth activities in consumer protection, expressions of support and a desire for involvement from various consumer organisations, a list of expressions of support or, if not support, then expressions of a desire to become involved from private industry, and discussions that have been held between me and representatives of various other organisations, including the Chamber of Manufactures and a whole variety of other people. I ask for leave to have that incorporated m  Hansard. 
-The reason why I incorporated that material was to answer the suggestion- it was no more than a suggestion- of the honourable gentleman because it could be implied from what he said that there had not been proper consultation with industry. There has been consultation with industry. I have talked with representatives of the Chamber of Manufactures. Only last week I had a long talk with representatives of General MotorsHolden's Pty Ltd who came to see me. They complained that under the present system each of the States has its standards and General Motors has to make its cars according to the Victorian standard, which is not the same as the standards fixed by some of the other State governments. The gentleman who saw me- I forget his name- told me that he welcomed national standards. He said: 'Manufacturers cannot operate if there are going to be 7 different standards. We want national standards that can be enforced by a central body so that we can gear up our tool making and gear up our production line knowing that we are not running counter to some State law that was made after we had set our standards'. 
That is the benefit of Australian consumer protection at the Federal level. We have the power to set national standards which every manufacturer knows will be then accepted and will override any State standards that are either greater or less than those standards. If the standards are less than a standard in one State or if the Federal Government were not to fix standards, then we would be in the position of manufacturers being at the mercy of the less reputable manufacturers who have no regard for standards at all and who undercut sensible, decent manufacturers who want to supply good durable goods because their competitors are doing the thing they would not like to do. I had a letter from Philips a little while ago saying: 'We are trying to produce dimmer switches. We have one that prevents the radioactive propagation'- I think that is what it said'which can affect very badly the reception of FM tuners and can affect colour television, but if the Federal Government is not going to make our competitors of the cheap ineffective and quite dangerous articles comply with some national standard soon we will have to reduce the level of our dimmer switches to the level of our competitors in order to sell them at the same price'. That is an easily understood position. 
I want to co-operate with the States. The State governments have written to me saying that in the field of, for example, the consumer protection magazine which we will be publishing towards the end of the year, they wish to cooperate with us. They would like us to have their material; they would like us to give them our material. Where we have shop front premises and they have shop front premises in the same city we will let them use our material and gladly distribute their material, because it is not possible for the Australian Consumers Association, the State governments and the Australian Government combined to test all the wide range of consumer products that are on the market. Provided we do not overlap our activities then we all can do a good job in our respective fields. I have told the ACA people who publish  Choice  that we will let them know a year in advance, and keep notifying them a year in advance, of the kinds of things we are going to test. They are going to let us have a year's notice in advance of all their testing programs so that we will not be testing the same things as they test. I am prepared to do the same thing with the State governments. Only in this way, by co-operation and by the co-ordination of our efforts, can we get the best possible results from what we are all seeking to do. 
It is true, as the honourable member for Bennelong says, that the Australian Parliament has not got the legislative powers to deal with some of the aspects of consumer protection now in the hands of the States. The Trade Practices Act allows us to deal with corporations, but it does not allow us to deal with individuals who take down consumers. We have to rely on the States. 
I do not know about trade unions. I am surprised at the honourable gentleman. It is a political red herring to talk about trade unions at a time when we are trying to get some form of protection to help the ordinary consumer. The Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  is indicating to me that I should wind off, but I am going to keep on for a little bit longer. Unless he physically attacks me I am afraid I will have to keep going. Unfortunately, because of the honourable gentleman's state of mind on the matter, I have to be very brief. I do not want to see consumer protection remain, as I think it is now, the play thing of the affluent middle class. The honourable member for Bennelong is to be commended for taking the same point of view. They cannot look after themselves completely, but they are better able to look after themselves than are the pensioners, the migrants, the illiterate people, the undereducated and people with poor incomes. When we put out our magazine we will have reprints of the pages showing the results of testing and they will be provided free of charge to these underprivileged people from our shop front premises. 
In different languagesGreek and Italian. We would like to include more ethnic groups but they are the 2 biggest ethnic groups in the community. For a start we will have to be content with covering those people only. It is true that 99.9 per cent of all voters have a far greater interest in consumer protection than they have in protecting the people who cheat the consumers. Of the 7.5 million voters in Australia 99 per cent, as I say, are more concerned to see us do something to help protect consumers than to help protect the people who want to cheat the consumers. 
This Bill has not been prepared in haste, as has been suggested. The decision to begin preparation of the Bill was taken more than 8 months ago. When I became the Minister in June there was a completed draft of the first run of the BUI. Since then we have worked constantly on it, as the honourable member for Bennelong might have suspected.  Her  Honour, Justice Gaudron, who will be  chairman  of the consumer protection authority, has been co-operating with us. She is an excellent choice. It cannot be said that we have worked in haste. We have put a lot of work into this Bill. It will be one of the very best Bills ever brought into the Parliament. It is a very well drafted Bill and we are very proud of it. I am sure nobody will be able to pick many holes in it. 
I have to conclude now because the Leader of the House is looking at me, or I can feel him looking at me. The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  made a thoughtful contribution that deserves comment too. It is true that consumerism, as he called it- a term I do not like- can add costs to prices. It can add them in 2 ways. If you set standards that are unnecessarily high, for instance, a standard requiring that all bathroom furnishings shall be plated with 23 carat gold, you would be imposing an unnecessary standard on consumers and an unnecessary cost. That is a silly thing. It could also be bad if we had an unnecessary level of people attending to consumer protection- if we had a whole army of bureaucrats, to use a popular term, administering the organisation. We do not intend to do that. I have told my people that the shop front premises, which will be the main public window of our activities, are to be manned by people no higher than class 4. I think a class 4 position is plenty high enough. They would have clerical assistants to help them. They would be good, presentable people who know how to handle the public, who look good, who are intelligent and who are willing to dedicate themselves to the job. I do not expect that the shop front premises in the capital cities will have more than 2 people in them, at the beginning at any rate. As more work calls for more people, we will employ them. But I anticipate that there will only be 2 people involved at the beginning. 
All told, we do not expect more than about 50 people to be employed by the Australian Consumer Protection Authority central authority. We will be taking over something like 35 people who now administer Part V of the Trade Practices Act which we will take over. But that gives a total of only 85 for the whole of Australia. So it will not be a great big Frankenstein monster. I am very careful about that because I know that the Opposition and the public will condemn ACPA if it falls for the three card trick of filling itself up with unnecessary bodies. We will not allow it. My permanent head knows that that is my view and moreover it is his own view. 
-Yes, I did. I should like to thank the Committee for the attentive hearing it has given me. I should like to thank the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  too for the way in which he extended my time. I only hope that when we come to the Consumer Protection Bill we will be able to deal with some of the matters I had to leave unsaid. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department  of  the Media 
Proposed expenditure, $137,575,000 
-Metric conversion has been going on now for a couple of years. It has not been pushed beyond the pace which the public can accept. It is true that there are still pockets of resistance to it but, generally speaking, metric conversion has been accepted and is now being understood by more and more people. The honourable member referred to metric conversion in relation to the building industry. Those people in the building industry who have worked with both systems now generally accept that the metric system is a more accurate system of drawing plans and of working to plans than the old system. It is true that people of older generations will find it difficult to transfer to the metric system or to accommodate themselves to it. I can recall when older people thought that they would never be able to understand decimal currency. They have done so, and now that it is here they accept it as being a much simpler system of currency than the sterling system. I have no doubt that the younger generations will very quickly come to understand and accept metric conversion. At the same time I can tell the honourable gentleman that the Metric Conversion Board, with which I met in Adelaide on Friday, has told me that it is receiving tremendous support from the public Metric conversion is being accepted. The Board is being very sensible about the rate at which it pushes metric conversion and it intends to continue to keep the rate at a level that the public can understand, accept and accommodate. 
It has nothing to do with consumer affairs, I can tell the honourable gentleman. It was wishful thinking on my part. I was hoping that he would be able to come into the House and say that he had been able to get a loan of $4,000m because I can think of a lot of projects that we could very usefully spend that sort of money on instead of allowing foreign investors to come in and rip off the cream of our natural resources- our mineral resources and our energy resources. 
I can never understand how people who claim to have the interests of Australia at heart object to a government's trying to borrow money to develop Australia's mineral and energy resources so that the benefit of those resources will reside with the Australian people but prefer to allow the multinational corporations in foreign countries to come into this country and spend the same amount of money to get a stranglehold on Australia's mineral and energy resources. I am very disappointed that the Minister for Minerals and Energy was not able to come into the House with $4,000m to make it possible for us to develop our own natural resources in minerals and energy. When I said that I hoped he would be able to come in with that money I meant it. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
As honourable members will know, the provision of effective protection for the consumer is one of the stated aims of the Australian Labor Party. It is a theme which underlies many of the Government's other aims. Its plans in the social, economic, industrial and environmental fields, its plans in research and development and in law reform are all conceived with a clear recognition of the interests of the Australian consumer. Useful moves have already been made to provide measures of consumer protection in Australia, but these have mostly been fragmentary in nature. I do not want to decry in any way the  valuable achievements that have been made by consumer bodies and by State governments. On the contrary, I commend them for their splendid efforts. That they have achieved as much, without legislative support from the Australian Government, is a tribute to them. That they will achieve so much more in the future is the assurance that I can give them with the introduction of this legislation. 
Let me state clearly at the outset that it is not my intention that the new Authority should take over the functions of the State bureaus. Its role will be to work in close liaison with them. It will complement their work, not compete with it. The Authority, by looking over the whole field on a national basis, will be able to identify and act quickly against malpractice which crosses State boundaries. I invite the States, where they are able, to make a continuing contribution to the work of the Authority. I intend to have regular meetings with State Ministers for Consumer Affairs, and am confident that we will provide a formal link with the Authority at an appropriate level. 
The object of the Bill is to establish a statutory authority to give effect on a co-ordinated nationwide basis to the comprehensive policies which we have for the protection of the consumer. This Authority will be the administrative centre for consumer protection. It will be the hub of Australian Government involvement in consumer protection and the point of contact for State consumer affairs bodies. It will be the agency to which the general public and the many splendid voluntary consumer groups can look for the assistance which they so fully deserve in their work to protect the public. It will also be the source for completely new initiatives in the setting of national standards and the testing of consumer products. 
Before dealing with the most important features of the Bill, I must refer briefly to the work of the Interim Commission on Consumer Standards which was established by my predecessor in October 1973. It was directed to canvass the opinions of consumers on the need for consumer standards and to suggest how the desired standards might best reflect public need and how their development might be facilitated. The Interim Commission was also asked to examine general issues pertinent to consumer protection, to encourage the formation of a federation of consumer organisations, to investigate consumer education, to arrange liaison between Federal and State consumer officials and, most importantly, to make recommendations about a permanent body that should ultimately take its place. One of the achievements of the Interim Commission was to bring together consumer organisations to form the Australian Federation of Consumer Organisations. This now enables a consumer viewpoint to be expressed with the backing of the Federation. The criticism that the consumer movement only represents small sectional interests can no longer be sustained.  (Quorum formed) 
The Interim Commission's report which was tabled in this House in July 1974 strongly urged the establishment of a permanent statutory authority with wide powers to undertake all those activities necessary to develop soundly based consumer standards. An essential part of the processes leading to the adoption of mandatory standards was seen by the Interim Commission to be the conduct of public hearings. With that view I am in complete agreement. I would like honourable members to note that many of the recommendations of the Interim Commission have been incorporated in the Bill. Since the work of the Interim Commission was completed, I have give the most searching thought to the needs of setting and enforcing national standards for consumer protection. I am firmly of the view that this very necessary need can only be achieved effectively if all its aspects are brought together under one authority which has the constitutional power to set and enforce these national standards. I am equally sure that this is what the public wants of the Australian Government. 
Honourable members will know that the Trade Practices Act includes provisions directed towards consumer protection. For the reasons which I have given, I do not want to have a dichotomy of government responsibility- vested partly in the Trade Practices Commission and partly in a consumer standards commission. The proposal, therefore, which is incorporated in the Bill is one for a single Australian Consumer Protection Authority which will bring together the functions and powers presently exercised by the Trade Practices Commission in relation to the legal aspects of consumer protection, as well as the technical functions and activities needed to establish a sound base for consumers to be given accurate and adequate information about consumer goods. We will not be trying to force everyone to have Rolls Royce models of everything; but we should put them in the position where, especially in the major purchases they make, they can select on the basis of accurate information. At present many of the major purchases such as carpets, refrigerators, stoves and so on, are made without adequate information. 
Honourable members will know that my portfolio encompasses science, technology and consumer affairs. The connection linking consumer interests with applied science and technology is, I think, readily apparent. Many products of our technological society have found their way to consumers through slick sales publicity designed to condition the psychological processes that now fashion the kind of society in which we live. In respect of the goods which we seem to value highly nowadays- cars, television sets, refrigerators and so on -the consumer has very little early say in decisions which culminate in the range of services and products on the market. Worse still, he has no knowledge of some of the most undesirable side effects of modern science and technology. Thus the consumer is, at one and the same time, both a beneficiary and a victim of modern technology. It is therefore my aim to achieve better public understanding and more public involvement in the complex interactions between technology and industry on the one hand and consumer protection on the other. 
The Authority will be of positive value to Australian industry. The potential benefits are obvious. With national standards set in co-operation with the States, manufacturers will no longer have to worry about having to meet different requirements in different States. It will protect local manufacturers as well as consumers against imported goods which do not meet Australian standards. These standards will be set in close consultation with local industry. Such consultation will be designed to ensure that no standards are set without a full understanding of what the cost effects will be. For these reasons, reputable Australian manufacturers will have nothing to fear. They will, in fact, benefit from the knowledge that the Authority will restrict the activities of unscrupulous firms which give industry a bad name. I have studied developments in the field of consumer protection in many overseas countries. It is evident to me that, whilst much good work has been done in this country in the field of consumer protection, we lag far behind what is being done overseas. I emphasise, however, that this Bill is not a carbon copy of anything from overseas. It incorporates the best features of overseas practice, selected to suit Australian conditions, and includes some innovations of its own. 
I now turn to the Bill itself and I will confine my remarks to broad concepts rather than going into details. The first part of the Bill comprises mainly of definitions only and needs no further comment. Part II of the Bill describes the powers and functions of the Authority. It will be seen that they derive from the recommendations of the Interim Standards Commission and from the functions transferred from the Trade Practices Commission. In summary, the functions of the Authority will cover the whole gamut of consumer affairs. It will liaise with, and support, consumer groups and prepare and distribute educational information. The Authority will also work together with persons engaged in advertising, trade or commerce, and keep such persons informed of its activities. There will be a wide spectrum of public interest in consumer affairs which will be represented directly on the Advisory Council. It will enforce consumers' rights by examining unsatisfactory trade practices and taking legal action when necessary. Its other main function will be to study the quality of goods and services, by the testing of consumer goods and by developing and enforcing, where necessary, consumer standards, the Authority will, however, seek to persuade rather than penalise. I do not visualise the Authority engaging in a long range of confrontations with industry. We believe that the greatest good can be done by educating the consumers on the one hand and by educating the manufacturers on the other hand. Moreover, we want to protect the good manufacturers from the unscrupulous rival who seeks to use snide methods and inferior quality to capture a market against a reasonable competitor. 
In the performance of its function, the Authority will be obliged to avail itself of resources and facilities of other bodies or authorities engaged in the formulation of such standards and will play a co-ordinating role to this effect. I have already spoken of my desire for the Authority to work in harmony with State agencies. Honourable members will notice that Part III of the Bill is identical to Part V of the Trade Practices Act. The only changes in this Part are to clauses 20 and 21, and these changes are of a machinery nature only. Otherwise the whole part of Part III of the Bill is identical with the whole of Part V of the Trade Practices Act. The intention then is clear To give the proposed Authority the consumer protection functions now exercised by the Trade Practices Commission. After this legislation comes into force, the corresponding sections will be deleted from the Trade Practices Act, Officers of the Trade Practices Commission who are currently devoted to the administration of Part V of the Trade Practices Act are to be transferred to my ministry. I can therefore give an assurance that there is no intention to duplicate activities or to build up a large bureaucracy. In fact, the Authority will comprise a small core of permanent staff supported, where necessary, by specialists drawn from States, industry and universities, on a seconded or contract basis. Specialists task forces will also be established for specific short-term duties. 
Part IV of the Bill deals with the Authority's role in respect of consumer product standards and in particular with the public actions which it must take before recommending to the Minister that a standard be adopted or revoked. The duties of the Minister in relation to this process and to Parliament are clearly laid down in the Bill itself. Part V provides for the notification to the Authority by manufacturers, distributors and retailers of substantial product hazards. The related powers of the Industrial Court and the Authority are clearly defined. This Part was taken from legislation passed by the United States Congress. It has worked extremely well in the United States to the satisfaction of both the manufacturers there and the consumer groups. Part VI of the Bill makes provision for wide public debate on consumer protection matters and particularly the development of mandatory standards. 
The Authority will be concerned with standards for consumer goods, and many of those standards will enjoy the force of law. It is therefore important that, before such standards are introduced, all the consequences of their introduction are assessed and appreciatedespecially by the general public whose interests are at stake. It would be easy to write standards which appear to be desirable from the consumer viewpoint, but which would later be found to entail serious disadvantages to manufacturers. It is therefore important to set standards which are feasible, economical viable, and technologically and socially desirable- standards giving the consumer the best practical results, without making unreasonable and unrealistic demands on industry. 
The powers of the Authority in regard to public hearings have therefore been spelt out in some detail. These clauses follow very closely those applicable to the Industries Assistance Commission in regard to its public hearings. Honourable members will notice that witnesses may be compelled to give evidence but at the same time they are protected from intimidatory practices. Where matters of evidence are genuinely confidential, they will be protected and they will be kept confidential. Part VII of the Bill deals with enforcement and remedies. This Part contains, unaltered, the enforcement provisions of Part VI of the Trade Practices Act. Part VIII describes the structure of the proposed Authority. It will be headed by a Commissoner and up to 5 associate commissioners. The Commissioner will be a statutory officer having the powers of a Permanent Head. 
Part IX of the Bill deals with 'finance'. I shall not go into the details on this matter except to say that it follows the normal recognised and accepted provisions in Australian statutes in regard to Auditor-General and Treasury requirements and the normal safeguards that are written into all pieces of legislation involving the expenditure of public money. Part X makes provision to establish an Advisory Council consisting of not more than 20 persons, chosen primarily because of their active interest in the field of consumer affairs. Whilst they will not be representative of particular organisations, nevertheless they will be chosen so as to cover the interests of all cross sections of the community. I want to see manufacturers represented. I want to see retailers represented. I want to see the people who have helped to set the standards represented. I want to see those Australian Government departments that are essential to the satisfactory operation of the Act represented on this Advisory Council. For instance, if we are going to set standards that have to be observed by Australian manufacturers it is important that we do not allow those manufacturers to be subjected to unfair competition from inferior goods produced overseas. Consequently it is important that on the Advisory Council a representative of the Department of Customs should sit in order that where it becomes necessary to put an embargo upon inferior goods which would constitute unfair competition with the Australian manufacturers who were observing the standards set by the Authority the need for prohibition will be understood and the Customs Department will be able to act quickly to protect the Australian manufacturer from that sort of unfair competition. 
The Bill also contains a number of necessary machinery clauses, as for example the need to present annual reports to Parliament. I forsee such reports as being most useful documents and powerful forces for good through the exposure of malpractice and the lauding of good practice. Honourable members will also note that any reports to the Minister by the Authority must be listed in the report. We do not wish to see a situation in which the Minister can have power to suppress a report if he does not like it. The report given to the Parliament by the Authority will indicate to the Parliament the nature of every report given to the Minister. The Minister will have absolutely no power to prohibit the Authority from doing something. He would have the power to request the Authority to do something. He would not have any power and neither should he have the power to veto the decision to  test something that the Authority thought it necessary to test for consumer protection. Provision is made to protect manufacturers and to provide them with access to the Authority before the disclosure of information, as well as in the investigation of substantial product hazards. It is not contemplated that the Authority would ever set standards or would ever deliberate or make a decision upon what constituted a substantial product hazard until the manufacturers concerned were first given an opportunity of putting their case, discussing with the Authority the kind of things needed to be done to ensure that the manufacturer is able to meet the standards without prohibitive costs. That kind of thing is what the Authority would deem itself to be obliged to look for. 
There is also provision for the adoption of international conventions and internationally adopted standards. Before concluding, I want to indicate an important aspect of the way in which the Authority will operate. Consumer products cover a very wide range, and there are already many agencies working in this field. For example, the Therapeutic Goods Act already makes provision for the Minister for Health to determine standards for therapeutic goods and for their packaging and labelling, and to prevent their distribution if they do not comply with those requirements. The Therapeutic Goods Standards Committee, the Therapeutic Goods Advisory Committee, and the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee, have been established to advise the Minister in his administration of that Act. Samples of therapeutic goods subject to the Therapeutic Goods Act are examined, tested and analysed by the National Biological Standards Laboratory, a division of the Department of Health. In addition, the National Biological Standards Laboratory researches and prepares draft standards for consideration by the Therapeutic Goods Standards Committee and the Therapeutic Goods Advisory Committee. 
It is intended that the Commission, in exercising its functions, will not disturb either the existing procedure for the determination and application of standards for therapeutic goods by the Minister for Health, or the functions of the bodies established under the Therapeutic Goods Regulations. The Food Standards Committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council, which includes representatives of State governments, consumer interests and the food industry, has for many years carried out the function of formulating food standards. It has been aided by its specialist advisory committees on food additives, food microbiology, food analysis and food science and technology. 
Transport is another area in which the Consumer Protection Authority will be able to make a strong consumer input in co-operation with the existing agencies for the formulation and determination of standards. In the case of aircraft, the Air Navigation Act and Regulations provide a basis for the establishment and enforcement of proper standards. In the important case of motor vehicles, ACPA will become a major new force in the formulation and implementation of standards in consultation with the Australian Transport Advisory Council. The Authority will be able to place the onus and sanctions where they belong- with the manufacturers, importers and distribution networks. Moreover, the Authority will be able to look critically at the way in which vehicles and associated services are being merchandised and to protect the individual motorist when difficulties arise. I can say at this point that the Australian Consumers Association has told me that something like 80 per cent of all the complaints received by the ACA relate to motor vehicles. 
Section 7 (2) of the Bill will enable the Consumer Protection Authority to take advantage of the expertise and experience, in the health field, of the Food Standards Committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council; and in transport, the Road Safety and Standards Authority and the specialist advisory committees of the Australian Transport Advisory Council. Complementary arrangements will also be made to enable the latter bodies to take advantage of the expertise and experience of the Consumer Protection Authority. There is no intention that the Authority should take over that activity. Its role will rather be to work through existing organisations and to co-ordinate their work, to comment on their work, and to indicate to them areas requiring attention. 
In conclusion, let me say that every member of Parliament is in some way or other a consumer. All of us have been dissatisfied from time to time with the quality of goods that we have bought; with the lack of information about products; with the service we have received; or with the fine print in the contract that we have signed. This Bill provides the greatest step forward so far taken in protecting the rights to which we as consumers and as members of the Australian public are entitled. It gives me great pleasure indeed to commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Howard)  adjourned. 
ELECTORAL BILL (No. 5) 1975 Second Reading 
Debate resumed from 28 August, on motion by  Mr Daly: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I always feel that I have a quinquennial duty to this Parliament to let the newer members of Parliament know something about the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  which they probably are not aware of. I have always felt it my duty, once every 5 years, to give a few facts about the honourable gentleman's past activities. 
-No, the 5 years are up now. The honourable gentleman has graced this chamber now for some 26 years. He comes from a long line of very distinguished Australians dating back to the highway robber  Dr D'Arcy  Wentworth who was, as we all understand, the unwanted son of an earl in London. But for the fact that that earl did not believe in marriage the honourable gentleman would not have been eligible to sit in this Parliament; he would today be required to take his place in the House of Lords instead of here. The earl did not believe in marriage but he looked after his son D'Arcy and when the son was convicted of highway robbery it was decided that, providing he agreed to come to Australia as a surgeon, the normal penalty would be changed to that of temporary residence in Norfolk Island. I had the very great pleasure and privilege of looking at that lovely little old hut in Norfolk Island- I would like to see it preserved for posterity- with shingled roof where the distinguished D'Arcy and his de facto convict wife lived for many years. She bore him some 3 sons who later were responsible for sowing the seed that eventually produced the honourable gentleman that we have here with us tonight. 
There is no doubt that the long line of marvellous Wentworth people were distinguished people. I often wonder just where this honourable gentleman really stands. The one time honourable member for Watson,  Mr Danny  Curtin, was the first to reveal the belief that the honourable gentleman had been for some considerable time an undercover member of the Port Kembla branch of the Communist Party, holding ticket No. 176. The honourable gentleman denied that he held ticket No. 176 and  Mr Curtin  then changed the number to 166. Apparently that was accepted without further demur on the part of the honourable gentleman. I am wondering whether after all he is not a very clever- extremely clever- agent for the Kremlin. 
-Yes, that is right. He has been hoodwinking us for years and years, having got dispensation, no doubt, from the Kremlin to make these attacks on the Communist Party because this is the way he can suck us in and make us believe that here we have a friend, a man we can trust, a man we can talk to, discuss defence problems with, discuss the secrets of our atomic potential and all this kind of thing, knowing all the time that whatever we tell him is safe in his hands because he is always such a devout anti-communist. 
I remember the case of Diver Dobson. It was an interesting case. This anti-communist, Diver Dobson, was pushed off the ferry going across to Manly by communists. Who else would push anyone off a ferry but a communist? The only thing was that when they found him he had forgotten to get his coat and shirt wet. He got the bottom part of his gear wet- his boots and socks were wet- but by some miraculous means he was able to avoid getting any other part of his clothing wet after the communists pushed him into Sydney Harbour. The honourable gentleman was the architect of this grand scheme to show that this was what the communists would do if they could only get their way. They would push people like the famous Mr Diver Dobson into the river, when all that he was doing was fighting these bad communist people. 
Then the honourable gentleman started to get very cunning with the communists. He said:'I know what I will do. I will offer a cup for the best marching team on Labor Day down at Illawarra'. It was called the Illawarra Star Cup. It was a very clever- almost diabolically clevermove on his part. The communists, not knowing what he was up to, of course, took him at face value, as we all do, and decided to put a boycott on his newspaper which was called the  Illawarra Star.  The honourable gentleman sat in his home down on the South Coast and thought: 'How will I overcome this problem?' He chanced upon the marvellous idea that he would ask one of the most dangerous communists this country has ever seen, Ted Roach, none other, who was then the Assistant Secretary of the Waterside Workers Federation, to confer with him in secret. No one knew they were there. 
No one discovered that they had had the conference until the march took place. We could not understand why it was that the communist controlled Waterside Workers Federation had won the march. Its team was not the best marchers. The best marchers were the anti-communist clerks union. They were by far the best. But by some foul little plot these evil communist people belonging to the Waterside Workers Federation had the cup. I am told that as the honourable gentleman presented the Illawarra Star Cup to the communist controlled contingent of Waterside Workers on that Labor Day he genuflected to this dangerous communist, Roach, as he handed him the cup. 
Now, of course, he comes along and tells us that after all he really is anti-communist. He has to keep up that pretence. I am not saying that he is a spy. I cannot prove it. I cannot prove that he is a member of the Communist Party. However, there is strong evidence to suggest that he has special dispensation from the Third Internationale to put up this front. 
The behaviour of the honourable gentleman during World War II was rather strange too. He . was in the Home Guard. He did his best to get into the fighting services and it was not his fault that he could not. He is a very courageous man and I say that quite seriously. He is an honourable gentleman. When he was not able to get into the forces he joined the Home Guard and did his best. He did better than his best because he blew up the Cronulla Bridge just to show that it could be done. He then captured the Redfern Police Station to prove that Australia really was vulnerable and that the Japanese could quite easily come and take this country. There were no adequate defences. Because Field Marshal Sir Thomas Blamey had the audacity to ridicule the suggestion that our defences were not at the ready all the time, what did the honourable gentleman do but kidnap Sir Thomas Blamey. He took him up to Leura in the Blue Mountains and held him there for 48 hours. Nobody was able to find out anything about him. He did this in order to demonstrate the point he was trying to make and he made it successfully. The point was that the country was ill-equipped to defend itself. - How did the honourable gentleman capture the Redfern Police Station? This is an indication of how crafty and clever and cunning the honourable gentleman is. A man clever enough to pull this off is clever enough to do anything. He arranged for his contingent of Home Guards to dress themselves up as tramway men, with uniforms and hats and everything on. They approached the Redfern Police Station at a time when there was a change of the morning shift on the tramways. At the given point the Home Guards, dressed as tramway men, pounced upon the police station, held the inspector in charge and put everybody under guard. They they said: 'Here we are; we are in charge of the Redfern Police Station'. It was a magnificent manoeuvre. It demonstrated, in a way that nobody else had up to that time been able to demonstrate, just how vulnerable was the defence system in Australia. 

 Mr WENTWORTH (Mackellar)-I wish to make a personal explanation. I am afraid that it will have to be a fairly long personal explanation because so many untrue things have been said by the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  I will say, first, that what he said about my family was untrue. I will not go further into that except to say that I consider that this is one of the meanest and most horrible things that have been said in this House. Secondly, the story about my having been a member of the Communist Party is utterly and completely untrue. It has been denied in this House previously. I believe that the Minister knows it to be untrue because he has told me personally that he knows it to be untrue. He has said that to me personally and there can be very little doubt that the Minister knew that what he was saying was untrue. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to question on notice No.  3110.  (Hansard,  1 October 1975, page 1598). 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes. I say that that statement by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is completely false. To suggest that I, as one of the members of the front bench on the Government side, should have given anybody a copy of any Treasury document is absolutely untrue and I deny it. 
You cannot ask for it. 
That is not in accordance with the Standing Orders. 
Today we stand in the centre of a grave constitutional crisis that threatens to destroy the fragile fabric of the democracy that holds our nation together. It is a crisis that has been engineered by a man bent on getting power at any cost. I refer, of course, to the present rich and elitist Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Is this not the same man who on 10 March 1971 brought about the downfall of his own Liberal Prime Minister by one of the shabbiest acts of betrayal ever written in the history of Australian pontics? Is this not also the same man who, in order to satisfy his lust for power, twice betrayed and finally destroyed another leader of his party? He says that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  changes his principles. He could have added 'like I change my knives.' Is this not the same man? Of course it is. How could the Australian electorate trust him to preserve the sacred tenets of our way of life? He has shown that nothing that stands in his way in his drive for power is sacred. In his thrust for power the Leader of the Opposition is willing to violate every principle, every convention and every tradition that form an integral part of our parliamentary system of government. He will do this even though his action brings about the total collapse of the parliamentary system of government. 
Why does this man of privilege and inherited wealth want power so desperately? The answer is simple and it is frightening. He simply wants power for power's sake. This is the self-styled man of principle. The man who twice disposed of his own elected leaders in his grab for power is now prepared to destroy the whole parliamentary system to satisfy his mad obsession to rule those whom he so deeply despises. Compare that man with the man he seeks to displace, the man who came to power in 1972- the present Prime Minister. He came to power inheriting 1 500 000 people who had no health coverage, 400 000 kids at school who were suffering serious disadvantages, people in 70 per cent of cases in the magistrates courts in New South Wales having no legal representation, and pensions at only 18 per cent of average weekly earnings- they are now at nearly 25 per cent. This same great Prime Minister is now fighting for the right to continue to right the wrongs of 23 rotten years of Liberal government. Australians love a fighter, especially when he is fighting for them and when he is fighting for the traditions, conventions and principles that are critical to the survival of the system of government that the Australians hold so dear to them. Not the survival of the Government, but the survival of the system of government is what we are talking about. 
The Prime Minister has a bounden duty to defend Parliament and the conventions of Parliament against the violence which the Leader of the Opposition is attempting. It is a duty which he is prepared to carry out and I admire him for it as everyone must. How could any lover of democracy fail to admire the fighting qualities, the resilience and the intellectual qualities of the present Prime Minister? Why is it that the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party is now being seen at its magnificent best? Why is it that the Labor movement outside the Parliament is now more solidly united than ever before? It is because of the inspiration given by the Prime Minister in this present crisis, the man who in this Parliament stands out like a giant against the intellectual and moral pygmies who sit opposite him. It is because the Prime Minister has thrown down the gauntlet in defence of parliamentary government that I stand proudly beside him. That is why I and my ministerial colleagues stand solidly behind the Prime Minister in this, the most important fight of his life, the most important fight that the Australian people have ever fought in their lives. 
The forthcoming Senate election is more than a party political contest; it is an election which will call upon the electorate to decide whether a government elected for a constitutional term of 3 years should or should not be allowed to complete its constitutional term. That is what it is about. If an elected government is not to be permitted to govern for its full constitutional term, why have elections at all? Only yesterday the Leader of the Opposition said that if elected he would need a full 3-year term to get Australia back to where it ought to be. But he will not give the Whitlam Government a full 3-year term to correct all of the evils of 23 years of rotten Liberal government. Of course the Leader of the Opposition has a program. It is designed to restrict the freedom of our Press and even the Liberty of our workers. He even rings up the Press barons in order that the Press men, the working reporters, will not be free to speak the truth and to publish the truth, so that the Press barons will put the jobs of the reporters in peril if they do other than follow the editorials of their newspapers. 
Let the unions make no mistake about this. In public the Leader of the Opposition speaks about having a system of sanctions in our industrial system and in private he talks about gaoling union leaders. He will not deny this because it is true and he cannot deny it because he would not want to stand branded as a liar. I call upon my friends and supporters in the trade union movement, of whom I have many hundreds of thousands, to rally behind the Prime Minister's call, to stand up and to defend the system of government by the people, of a government entitled to govern for its full 3-year term, enshrined by the Constitution as the right of all elected governments. 
The rich and the privileged Leader of the Opposition wants government by big business, not government by properly elected representatives of the people. The people are many; the moguls are few. Yet it is the representation of those privileged few who have brought us to this very brink of mob rule. A frightening abyss is certainly before us now. The Leader of the Opposition thinks that because he is getting millions of dollars from the foreign-owned multinational corporations that now have a stranglehold on Australia's main industries and its mineral and energy resources that that will win him the election. This Senate election will not be won by the party that gets the most dollars from foreign racketeers who stand to gain so much from the election of a Fraser government. This election will be won by the party that gets the most votes from the sensible, decent Australians who value the system of democracy. The election will be a contest between foreign dollars and Australian votes, the votes of men and women who want to keep Australia Australian and who want parliamentary democracy to remain democratic. 
Without parliamentary democracy what is there? Why should the masses tolerate this mockery of democracy? What will prevent the masses from becoming a mob and what will then stand between the classes of privilege and the mob once the institution of parliament is destroyed? Who will then man the powerhouses, the oil refineries and the transport systems? Who then will man the ships, mine the coal and man the wharves? The Opposition cannot do that with guns and bayonets. It cannot do that with its wealthy racketeer friends. Revolution does not ever happen until some spark ignites the dynamite. The steps which the Opposition has now taken could be the spark that will bring down all the institutions in this country. Because, after all, what is the use of asking people to abide by the parliamentary system of government when that system is not allowed to operate? The people of Australia must speak out and they must say in a clear unequivocal voice that they want to preserve this system, they want the right to elect the government of their choice and they want that government to be given the specific constitutional tenure of office. 
It is not only the institution of Parliament that is now threatened but also the judiciary, the Public Service and the statutory arms of government are now under threat. I challenge the Leader of the Opposition now to deny honourable members opposite need not laugh that he told colleagues that if elected to government he would abolish the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and the courts and that he would reconstitute them with people of his own choosing. I challenge him to deny that he has told colleagues that he believes that appointments are more important than laws. If the Leader of the Opposition dares to deny that he made these statements to his colleagues I ask the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  to stand up and deny that he was present when the Leader of the Opposition made statements to that effect I challenge  Senator Young  to stand up in his place and deny that he heard the Leader of the Opposition declare that he would abolish the Commission and the courts and reconstitute them with his own men. That is the sort of man who is now putting himself to the Australian people as an alternative to the present Prime Minister, a man who will tear to shreds all of the conventions that prop up the institution of Parliament. After all, what is the institution of Parliament without its conventions and traditions? Without these it is nothing more than a white building on the brow of a hill occupied by some 180 people who call themselves either senators or members of the House of Representatives. 
Parliament does not derive its strength, its authority, its respect and power from the shell of masonry that carries the name of Parliament House. Nor does it derive its power and respect from the people who sit in its chambers; it derives its power, respect and authority from the fact that people identify Parliament with a whole wide range of ancient traditions, conventions and principles without which it can no longer act as the barrier between our present way of life and the mob which would seek to change it. And yet, it is they, the privileged sections of the community and the Press barons, who have most to lose from the destruction of the present system. They, the Press barons, the mining magnates, the foreignowned multinational corporations, the ruling classes generally, the barons of business and the privileged classes are now urging the Opposition to embark upon the course of action which will destroy the only bastion which stands between them and the mob. 
Why is it that those who work for their living and constitute the majority of our people have so far turned a deaf ear to the calls that excited their brothers and sisters at the turn of the century? Once working people see that their chosen governments are not to be allowed to govern, what is it that will stop them from responding to those memorable lines of Percy Shelley who, in conditions very much like those which will apply when the collapse of the parliamentary system occurs, made this clarion call to the men of England: 
Rise like Lions after slumber 
In unvanquishable number- 
Shake your chains to earth like dew 
Which in sleep had fallen on you- 
Ye are many they are few. 
This Parliament stands between the rule of the mob, the law of the streets and society as we know it and have enjoyed it throughout our country. Without convention and tradition this Parliament is nothing more than a shabby, overcrowded building. It represents nothing. The Senate election now due to be held will determine the fate of the parliamentary system of government. That is what the Senate election is about. It will determine whether this country is to be governed by laws made in Parliament by the people freely chosen by the Australian voters, or whether we are to be governed by laws that are made in the streets. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the findings of the National Shopping Basket Survey conducted on 16 and 17 October 1975 by the Department for Science and Consumer Affairs. 
in reply- I must say that I am very disappointed that the Opposition has sought to prevent the kind of consumer protection that this Bill envisages. I should have thought that the Opposition which is shortly to face a Senate election, would have enough political nouse to realise that when it attacks consumers or prevents people from defending consumers it is siding with those who would seek to cheat and deceive 99 per cent of the Australian electorate. If that is how honourable members opposite want to treat the consumers of Australia, with that kind of contempt, let them do so. But they will do so at their political peril because the consumers will be quick to realise what kind of a subterfuge it is that they are putting up in the amendment that they now propose. The Opposition is not putting up this amendment for the purpose stated by their chief spokesman on consumer affairs. They are putting up the amendment as a device to defeat the Bill altogether. The Opposition does not believe in consumer protection. 
It is true. Opposition senators will prove where the Opposition stands in relation to consumer protection. I am prepared to make a small wager that when this matter goes to the Senate, the Liberal and National Country Party senators will do exactly what the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  has threatened they will do. They will postpone the Bill for a month, hoping that in the meantime there will be an election for the Senate and that the Bill will never reach finality. So this is a cunning device by the Opposition to use the numbers that they know that they have in another place to prevent the consumers of this country from getting the kind of protection that the Government wants to give them. The Opposition will shortly face 7 million consumers and it will have to explain to those 7 million consumers, whose votes they will be seeking, why it was that in the very area that concerns the consumers most of all- protection from dishonest advertising and protection from dishonest manufacturers, retailers and wholesalers- it has used this device to prevent an Act being put on the statute book. There is no opposition from the main parties to this Bill. Not one single reputable manufacturer, retailer or wholesaler or advertising agent has expressed any opposition to this Bill. 
-No, I did not. 
-That confirms the point that I was about to make: The Opposition's chief concern is not for the consumers but for the manufacturers. That came out loud and clear throughout the whole tenor of the remarks of the honourable member for Bennelong. It was an indication of support for the manufacturer only. The honourable member said nothing during his remarks to indicate any concern for the consumer; he indicated deep concern for the manufacturer only. Who are the manufacturers that the Opposition seeks to protect? Who are the manufacturers to whom the Opposition seeks to give free rein to cheat and deceive the Australian consumer? In most cases they are the subsidiaries of foreign owned multi-national whose business directors live in New York. These are the businesses that the Opposition is chiefly concerned about. 
The honourable member for Bennelong trapped himself just a second ago when by interjection he indicated that he is in close cahouts with the manufacturers. He knew more about what came into my office by way of an alleged telegram from ACMA than I knew myself. I am not saying that there is not a telegram from ACMA in my office; I am saying that I have not seen it. It is very interesting indeed that the honourable member should have got from ACMA a copy of that telegram because I have had no indication from ACMA that it opposes this Bill. In talks that I had with ACMA ACMA told me that it was not concerned with the manufacturer who sought to cheat the consumer and that the honourable, decent, reputable manufacturer had nothing to fear from proper consumer protection laws. Representatives of ACMA told me that they did not see anything wrong with the Bill as they understood it. 
-The State governments cannot do the kinds of things that this Bill provides for. All the State governments can do is to operate in their own particular State. For example, if a person has land to sell in one State and likes to advertise that land in the newspapers of all of the other States, which State is it that takes action? No State can take action. Only we could deal with that kind of deception and there are thousands of them that one could mention. They can be adequately dealt with only by the Australian Government or the Australian Parliament. 
Setting national standards is another thing that can be done only by the Australian Parliament. I was informed by  Mr Teal  from General MotorsHolden's Pty Ltd who came to me that he was delighted that at long last we were able to get national standards which manufacturers who have activities in more than one State will be able to operate by, knowing that they will be within the law with regard to the goods that they sell in other States. 
-There is evidence of that from the honourable member for Robertson.  Mr Teal  told me this: In his company's plant in 
Victoria his organisation is bound by the Victorian State laws in regard to safety standards and to the other standards operating with regard to cars. But when his company sells its cars in other States, it finds that altogether different standards apply. Cars that reach the standards fixed by the Victorian Government may fail to reach the standards set by, for example, the Government of New South Wales. Emission control is another example of the problem created by each of the 6 States setting different standards. The manufacturers in the various States do not know how long they will be able to comply with the various standards fixed by the various States. 
-They have good reason to be worried. What we want to do is to set national standards and to say to the reputable manufacturers: 'Look, it does not matter in which State you manufacture your goods; nor does it matter in which State you sell your goods. The standards which are fixed by the Consumer Protection Authority will be standards that will protect you wherever you operate and wherever you sell your goods '. (  Quorum formed). 
This Bill was introduced last Wednesday. The Opposition has complained that it has not had enough time to consider it. But for the 20-odd years that I sat on the benches opposite, it was always the custom- it varied very seldom- for the Government to introduce a Bill in one week and to expect the Opposition to deal with it the following week. I invite members of the Opposition to look at the  Hansard  reports for years gone by; they will find that this has been the accepted practice. The 2 main parts of this Bill are the part which is derived from Part V of the Trade Practices Act- which does not introduce any new law at all, just the transfer- and the notification of substantial product hazards, which was taken from the Act that applies in the United States of America, a copy of which section I gave to the Opposition many weeks ago. 
-This Bill, the honourable member for Bennelong complains, does not consist of Part V alone. That is true. The Bill goes further than Part V. It provides that where a manufacturer is aware of a substantial product hazard he is required to notify the Authority. What is wrong with that? 
-Yes. What is wrong with people who become aware of a substantial product hazard being required to notify the Authority? Why should people who are aware of such a substantial product hazard be allowed to continue selling that article to the consumer? All the Opposition is concerned with, if what the honourable member for Bennelong has said represents its view, is the interests of the retailer against the consumer, the wholesaler against the consumer, the manufacturer against the consumer and, one must assume also, the false advertiser against the consumer. The honourable member objects to the monitoring of business behaviour. What is wrong with the monitoring of business behaviour? If business behaviour is likely to be bad it ought to be monitored. Loud throughout the remarks of the honourable member came the same note of deep concern for the manufacturer- the multinational corporation whose board room in New York controls the activities of its subsidiaries here. Deep concern is felt for them but no concern for the consumer. I cannot understand any political party that does not want to commit political harakiri saying that it does not concern itself with the consumer or saying that it does concern itself with the consumer but -  (Quorum formed).  This Bill does not take away anything at all from the Trade Practices Commission. Part V of the Trade Practices Act has already been handed to the administration of the Department of Science and Consumer Affairs. I am the Minister now in charge of the operations of Part V of that Act. That was done by administrative arrangements. So, that small part of the argument put by the honourable member falls flat to the ground. 
I am sorry that the interruptions that have occurred have prevented me from dealing fully with all of the points raised. The honourable member asks, as though it would be terrible, whether clause 7 of the Bill would allow the Consumer Protection Authority the right to appear before the Prices Justification Tribunal. Of course it does. Why should it not? The Prices Justification Tribunal has been greatly embarrassed already, and has said so several times, because the consumers have not been represented or have not had a voice before the Tribunal. We want to give consumers a voice before the Tribunal. We want to hear from them before the Industries Assistance Commission, too. Why should they not have that right? According to the innuendo contained in the remarks of the honourable member, consumers should be locked out of the Prices Justification Tribunal as well. 
The new definitions concerning substantial product hazard are not something which was dropped on the honourable gentleman only last Wednesday. These definitions were included in the American Act a copy of which was given to the honourable member weeks and weeks ago. The attempt to delay the Bill is, as I said, a device designed to prevent Australian consumers from having the protection to which they are entitled. It will be seen for the device that it is. I am sure the Opposition parties in the other place will reject this legislation. One could not expect them in their present frame of mind to do otherwise, bound hand and foot as they are to the multinational corporations from other countries. They are the paid hirelings of the multinational corporations, so they have to dance to the tune of the manufacturers and not worry about the consumers. They are welcome to all the votes the multinational corporations in New York can give them as long as we get the votes which the consumers will give to the people who they consider are looking after their interests best. The Government rejects totally and completely the amendment of the Opposition. It is quite unacceptable to us and we ask the House to reject it. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Howard's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (4) (a) (i), delete all words after 'a reference in sub-section (1)', and substitute 'or (2) to a corporation included a reference to a person not being a corporation'. 
The purpose of the amendment is to overcome a drafting mistake. There is no sub-section (3) in section 39 that refers to a corporation. I have talked with my friend opposite who agrees that this drafting error should be corrected. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 5 to 40- by leave- taken together. 
Yes, I can give that assurance. This is yet another organisation with which I have had long discussions concerning the Bill. I keep being accused of not talking with the people and that the proposal has not been properly discussed. Each question which comes up gives me a reminder of yet another organisation with which I have discussed the Bill. The representatives of the National Association of Testing Authorities came to Canberra to see me some 4 weeks or 5 weeks ago. I answered all the questions that they put to me. I read to them excerpts from the Bill as it was then drafted. It was not in final form, but the parts in which they were interested have not been altered. I told the representatives of N ATA and I repeat now categorically that NATA will continue to be recognised for the quite magnificent organisation that it is. It is a body that is highly regarded and highly respected by the community at large and by me. It will be respected by the Australian Consumer Protection Authority as well. 
So it gives me great pleasure to say that I have already discussed the Bill at great length with representatives of NATA who left me quite satisfied. They said that they were satisfied with my assurances and with my explanations. I repeat, as I did to them, that we will continue to regard NATA as the organisation which will set the testing standards. It does not run the laboratories and do the testing. What it does is test the standards of the laboratories. It has a role to play. That role is an important one. I do not see  ACPA  moving into that area. That type of work will continue to be done by NATA. 
The honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  has sought to wriggle out of the predicament that he has wriggled into by trying to pretend now that the Opposition does not intend to defeat the Bill in another place. I know that the Opposition is going to defeat the Bill in another place. It has already decided to defeat it by using a device to defeat by delay. If delay overtakes its plot it will destroy the Bill by emasculation, and that is an open secret. Everyone knows it. We all know of the commitments members of the Opposition have given to their wealthy backers already, and the consumers of Australia will be able to judge the Opposition's position. 
The Authority of course will not have power to determine Government policy other than that which is written into the Bill. The policy as written into the Bill is something by which the Authority will be bound as is any other authority. The Australian Consumer Protection Authority however will be the one to determine which consumer groups are to be given financial assistance out of its budget. At the moment it is the policy of my department, while we are waiting for  ACPA  to be established, to give all the financial assistance we can to the Australian Federation of Consumer Organisations, leaving  AFCO  to determine how the money will be dispersed to the various other consumer groups that are either affiliated or not affiliated. They do not have to be affiliated with  AFCO  to get the money. We will leave the allocation of money to  AFCO  to work out. We think this proposal is better because it takes away from politicians the opportunity of patronage to consumer organisations which I think is wrong. 
We will give an annual budget to  ACPA ACPA  will be the one to decide whether or how much money goes to the various bodies. I hope that  AFCO  will be continued to be recognised as the central agency for the various other consumer groups. Clause 7 (1) (f) could empower such an inquiry as the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  mentioned, but there could be no element of compulsion. It would be the duty of the Authority to examine critically the laws in force in Australia relating to the protection of consumers. That, however, would not be one of the major roles of- the Authority. But it would be very unwise to preclude the Authority from examining the laws for consumer protection in such a way as to make it possible for the Authority to report to the Minister on what way the laws might be defective. In fact I believe the Trade Practices Act is defective in some respects now. The Senate could have been more generous in the powers which it gave to the Trade Practices Commission. I have indicated to the honourable member for Bennelong the areas of difficulty within Part V of the Trade Practices Act that I think could be strengthened. 
The honourable gentleman very properly paid tribute to the Standards Association of Australia, and so do 1. 1 join with him in that tribute. The Standards Association acts on royal charter, as the honourable member said. It receives quite generous assistance from the Australian Government and will continue to receive generous assistance from the Australian Government. If the honourable gentleman looks at sub-clause (2) of clause 7 of the Bill he will notice that it states: 
It is the duty of the Authority, to the greatest extent practicable, to avail itself of the resources of, and to make use of the facilities provided by, other bodies or authorities engaged in the devising or evaluation of standards related to the provision of goods or services. 
That sub-clause was deliberately written into the Bill so that when the Act becomes law the Authority will be required by law to use existing bodies to carry out the work that normally might require the setting up of separate laboratory facilities. I have indicated to SAA- I say it now publicly and quite categorically- that the Government proposes that  ACPA  will continue to use SAA. As  SAA's  work expands- it will expand considerably rather than contract because it has a lot of projects on hand already and it will have more as time goes on and as more work is given to it to carry out on behalf of  ACPA-  it will need more financial assistance from the Government. I shall be recommending that SAA be given that additional assistance. I have had 2 meetings with SAA representatives now and they are perfectly happy with what I propose. I have had meetings with representatives of the Australian Consumers Association and they are perfectly happy with what is proposed here. It is just not true to say that there have been no negotiations or talks with the interested parties because there have been. 
Although the Bill of necessity makes provision for the establishment of laboratories for testing we are not going to have laboratories set up for testing where existing facilities can be used. In fact I can say to the honourable gentleman that we envisage only a very small number of employees- from 30 to 50 people; the remainder will be on loan or will be on contract. We expect to let a lot of our testing work to private enterprise which has testing facilities. There is no reason why we should not do this. It would be absurd to spend large sums of money setting up our own laboratories if existing facilities can be found. I have talked with employers and big undertakings such as Philips and Sunbeam who have told me that they have testing facilities. They are quite willing to co-operate. Both Sunbeam and Philips, who are very big in the field of manufacturing of goods of everyday use, have given the assurance that they support completely the Bill and the concept of the Bill and that they will fully co-operate with the Government and as reputable manufacturers they would welcome some legislation that would save them, as well as the consumers, from the disreputable manufacturers with whom they have to contend now. They want higher standards set so that they can be protected. They put it to me this way: Philips representatives were talking about the production of dimmer switches. They asked how they could possibly produce a dimmer switch that would prevent radiation propagation when their competitors are producing switches at about a third of the price- $6 as against $19.50- which interfere with frequency modulation reception, interfere with television reception, especially colour television reception, and are injurious over a long term to people living and working in the same house as those switches are operating in. They said: 'Unless we get some protection by way of regulatory requirement of standards we might as well slip back and drop our standards to the levels that our competitors have'. 
So there is great support from the reputable manufacturers just as there is great support from the consumers in Australia. I repeat quite categorically that we shall continue to allocate moneys to  ACPA  for the purpose of supporting the Australian Federation of Consumer Organisations, SAA and consumer groups. We will continue to use SAA facilities. SAA will be upgraded rather than downgraded. SAA knows that. I have had talks with Miss Helen Gray about this matter and she is completely satisfied with the undertakings that I have given to her. She has written to me about the matter and is quite happy with what is proposed by the Government. The Food Standards Sub-Committee to which the honourable gentleman referred will be the one that we will turn to for setting food standards.  ACPA  will not have its own duplication of work in relation to food standards where the Food Standards Sub-Committee is able to do so. Where SAA standards have been set - 
-The Standards Association of Australia. We shall use SAA standards where public scrutiny proves them to be suitable. I believe that most, if not all of the Association's standards would be deemed to be suitable. Once by way of public inquiry we find that they are suitable we shall accept them. There ought to be public inquiries because the manufacturer is entitled to have a viewpoint on what sort of standards are fixed before they are set. It is no use setting a standard for bathroom furniture by saying that everything that the manufacturer makes has to be plated in 22 carat gold. Sure, it looks good, but it will not last longer. What that will do is put the price of bathroom furniture out of the reach of the ordinary average working man. That is not what we want. All that we want to do is to make sure that goods are properly designated and that goods such as handrails are not branded as gold plated if they are not gold plated. If they are nickel plated the manufacturer should say that they are nickel plated. If they are chrome plated the manufacturer should say so. It is only where a particular kind of material which would represent a substantial safety hazard is being used that we would step in and prevent it from being used. All we want is frankness and honesty on the part of manufacturers so that people know what they are buying. 
-The transfer of Part V of the Trade Practices Act to the control of my Department is not being done by this Bill. There is nothing that the Opposition senators can do to stop that. It is already a  fait accompli.  It has been done by the Administrative Orders and there is nothing that anybody can do to stop that no matter what the majority of Opposition senators may do. So when the Opposition senators defeat this Bill which gives protection to consumers or when they emasculate it so that consumers will not get adequate protection, they will not be able to reverse the transfer that has already occurred. That is finished. That part is with me and it will stay with me. 
Should the Opposition seek to defeat the Bill by delay, that will be identified clearly in the election campaign. Should it seek to defeat the Bill by emasculation the Government will not accept the emasculation. It will allow the Consumer Protection Bill to join the long list of other Bills already rejected by the Senate as evidence of the obstructionism of the Senate and as evidence of the way the Senate is bound hand and foot to interests that do not have votes and in this case are diametrically opposed to interests that have more than 7 million votes. It is up to the Opposition to decide whether it wants to commit political hara-kiri or not. That is the Opposition's choice, but it is for the Government to determine in the light of its policies who should administer the consumer protection provisions of any legislation. It can be done either by administrative action or by legislation in the form that we are now proposing. It does not matter whether the Bill is passed. The present Administrative Orders will continue to prevail. 
The trade practices provisions of the Trade Practices Act are really competition provisions. It is in the public interest to achieve the aim of promoting competition between corporations, businesses, etc. As a further development of that policy one ensures that the competition which exists is fair. This is the competition oriented approach. An equally valid approach is to protect consumers from business malpractice. The Government recognised the existence of the important and growing consumer movement which sees consumer protection as a right of the citizen independent of the need to promote fair competition. Although the consumer protection provisions of the Trade Practices Act dovetail with the provisions for the promotion of competition between corporations they have an even stronger nexus with the standard setting, information and educational roles of the proposed Authority. In acting as we have done we have been guided by the advice tendered to us by the relevant authorities in the United States, Great Britain and Continental Europe. The consumer movement is not just concerned with consumer protection laws and standards. It does not wish to have to go to a multiplicity of agencies, departments, etc. which through no fault of their own may not accord the consumer's viewpoint the degree of importance the consumer feels is warranted. The Authority is therefore to be created partly in response to the large number of representations from consumer organisations requesting the Government to provide a single point of reference to which they might turn. Finally, it must be recognised that the Trade Practices Commission is not a body to which the less well informed members of our society will easily turn for help. Its very name militates against that. This deficiency is remedied by the creation of the new body. 
If one looks at clause 39 to which the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  referred, one will see if one examines it against section 1 5 of the relevant Act in the United States that in that country the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission has been able to find appropriate remedies for each case without the need for legislative restrictions. This provision is in fact a tighting up of the United States law which also covers such things as substantial product hazards and breaches of all product safety standards. Clause 39 also represents a grafting on to this Bill of section 15 of the United States Act, an Act that went through Congress after some  2Vi  years of thrust and parry by the multi-nationals and the consumer organisations in the United States. That Act was finally accepted by the Congress by, I think, unanimous vote or an overwhelming vote. I cannot remember the exact terms used to describe the vote. It was accepted by the Congress as representing a sensible compromise, and we have picked it up. That is all we have done. We may be accused of being anti-manufacturer and being unfair to the wealthy manufacturer just because we have picked up something that the United States Congress has been willing and seen proper to adopt, but if we do no more than adopt what the citadel of monopoly capitalism has been prepared to accept- namely the United States- I cannot see how anyone can properly say that we are giving too much protection to the consumer. The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  who constantly tries to interrupt this debate apparently has absolutely no concern for consumer protection at all. There is no doubt that he gets much more money from manufacturers for his campaign funds than he does from consumers. 
That sufficiently covers what I wanted to say. A person is not required to notify a substantial product hazard unless there is reasonable cause to believe, and the person alleging that someone has not complied with the provisions would have to prove that there was reasonable cause to believe, that the person concerned had information supplied to him or that the defect did in fact exist. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clauses 41 to 99- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 100. 
1 ) Where the Authority proposes to publish information concerning a consumer product and the manner in which a consumer product is to be designated or described in the information is likely to disclose the identity of a manufacturer of the product, the Authority shall not publish the information unless it has, so far as it is reasonably practicable to do so- 
notified each manufacturer of the product of its intention to publish the information; 
b ) afforded to each such manufacturer an opportunity to furnish to the Authority, within 30 days after receipt of the notification, any views that the manufacturer wishes the Authority to consider in connexion with the publication of the information; and 
given consideration to any views furnished to it by such a manufacturer within that period. 
I move the following 2 amendments which have been circulated in my name: 
In sub-clause ( 1) (b), leave out the words '30 days', and substitute the words 'a period to be prescribed '. 
Insert after sub-clause ( 1 ) the following: 100 1 A. Sub-section 1 does not apply to or in relation to the publication by the Authority of information of a prescribed kind concerning a consumer product'. 
The object of the first amendment is to confer flexibility on the Authority. A period of 30 days would be the usual period allowed for manufacturers to respond. Experience may show the need to reduce this period somewhat, particularly in relation to the consumer magazine which is to be published. I ask the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  to listen to this point as it is important: If we say that we cannot publish anything until we have given at least 30 days notice to all manufacturers we could never put out a monthly magazine. 
-Very well. The amendment to line 21 is designed to confer a further measure of flexibility relating to publishing. We would have to get permission to put the annual report in to Parliament otherwise. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 101. 
Where the Commissioner or an Associate Commissioner has reason to believe that a person- 
a ) has information with respect to a defect in goods that constitutes or may constitute a substantial product hazard; or 
that a person is engaged, or is engaging, in conduct that constitutes or may constitute a contravention of Part III, he may, for the purpose of ascertaining, by examination of documents, goods or equipment in the possession or under the control of the person, by testing any such goods or equipment or by examining samples of any such goods, whether the defect exists and, if so, the nature and effect of the defect, or whether the person has engaged or is engaging in that conduct, as the case may be, authorize, by writing under his hand, a member of the staff of the Authority (in this section referred to as 'authorized officer') to enter into premises of the person and- 
6 ) A person is not excused- 
from furnishing information, answering a question or producing, or permitting the inspection of, a document: 
from producing, and permitting the examination or testing of, goods or equipment; or 
from producing, and permitting the taking of a sample of, goods, 
In pursuance of this section on the ground that the information, the answer to the question or the document, or information obtained by examination or testing of the goods or equipment. or of a sample of the goods, may tend to incriminate the person, but the answer by any person to a question asked in a notice under this section, any information furnished by a person in pursuance of such a notice, any document produced in pursuance of such a notice or made available to an authorized officer for inspection, any answer to a question asked in accordance with this section, any information obtained by examination or testing of goods or equipment, or of a sample of goods under this section, is not admissible in evidence against the person in any criminal proceedings other than proceedings under this section. 
-I move: 
In sub-clause (2) (b) leave out the word 'is' where first appearing, and substitute the word 'has'. 
In sub-clause (6) leave out all words after the words  against the person ' to the end of the section, and substitute: 
in the case of a person not being a body corporate- in any criminal proceedings other than proceedings under this section; or 
in the case of a body corporate- in any criminal proceedings other than proceedings under this Act '. 
The first amendment relates to line 34 and is designed to rectify a drafting slip. As the clause now stands there would be no difference in interpretation between 'is engaged' and 'is engaging'. Clearly that is something that needs to be corrected. The object of the second amendment is to see that the clause contains in full the existing provisions of section 155 of the Trade Practices Act. I need not explain it further. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  (1)1 refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to question on notice No. 3304. (Hansard, 15 October, 1975 page 2 188). 
I am advised that the answer to Part 1 of the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The type of problems referred to have always occurred in commercial, consumer as well as other bodies of law in Australia because of the Federal system. It is not clear that the beneficial developments of recent years in consumer protection have caused further such problems. 
As to part 2 of the honourable member's question I have requested the Attorney-General to refer to the Law Reform Commission, the need for rules on choice of laws and jurisdictions and the problems of enforcement of contracts, and contract judgments throughout commercial and consumer law in Australia. 
-By way of preface to my question to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs I refer to his decision to allow Australian residents who leave Australia on foreign passports to re-enter Australia without re-entry permits after absences of up to 3 years. What steps will be taken to prevent the re-entry of such persons who during their absence overseas have been convicted of serious criminal offences, or are subject to arrest on criminal charges, or are suspected of being engaged in drug trafficking, or have contracted a serious infection or contagious disease, or who for any other reason would have become disqualified for residential status in Australia in the normal way? 
I am the architect of wage indexation in Australia. I resurrected the concept in 1972 and I can say, as I have already said time and again, that it was a very long and pretty lonely crusade. I did not receive much support from either inside or outside the trade union movement at the beginning of my campaign. Eventually support was given to it by the trade union movement whose members began to see that, if they were to preserve the increased share of the gross domestic non-farm product which they were able to receive for the year ending September 1974, amounting to 6.2 per cent- the most massive transfer from capital to labour that had ever occurred since Federation- they would need to index the wage system so that that increase could remain real over the period of years for which the wage indexation proposal was to operate. 
I read through every page of the transcript of every case. I took a day-to-day, personal interest in the case when it was before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. I claim to know as much about wage indexation as any person in the whole of the Commonwealth of Australia, and most people will say that that is not an overstatement of fact. It is not true, as the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has just alleged, that the previous Government had decided to propose any discounting of increases reflected in the Consumer 
Price Index brought about as a result of indirect taxation. No such decision was ever taken by Cabinet and nobody had any authority to say that Cabinet took that decision. It was a decision that would have been opposed by the Caucus, and I am certain by Cabinet, if it had ever been put forward, as it should have been opposed, because ever since the concept of wage indexation was a reality, from 1921 onwards, there has never been a concession by the trade union movement that increases reflected in the C series, the D series, the CPI or any other index should have discounted from them the effects of indirect taxation. Employers have been asking for it. Non-Labor governments have been asking for it. The unions have steadfastly refused it on every occasion. 
The Commission has never had the power to alter the CPI or the index but, on the other hand, it has never sought to discount the amount that would normally come from translating the index into wage increases. The Statistician has never proposed that it be discounted. But the Statistician has never done it, and I hope he will never do it. 
Indeed I hope that this Government will give attention to the powers that I had sought to repose in the standing tripartite commission on indexation which would supervise the index, its composition, the 'weighting' of the various components contained in it. Only when there was a unanimous decision of the standing commission, as in Belgium, France and the Scandinavian countries where tripartite commissions exist for oversighting of the index, would there be an acceptance of the index. If agreement was not possible the issue would have to be determined by an independant arbitrator. 
It is absolutely fundamental to the successful operation of wage indexation that the people who are affected by it believe that the figures reflected in the CPI are not fiddled, because if they are fiddled there will be no public confidence in it and if public confidence in the CPI is lost, wage indexation must crash. 
There is no doubt, in my view, that what has been done by the Government has been done against the wishes of most of the State governments. The Victorian Government actively opposed what the Australian Government did. Even those governments which supported something less than the full 6.4 per cent increase did so on the basis that the 3.2 per cent suggested by the Commonwealth Government did far more than reflect a discounting of the effect of indirect taxation upon the items contained in the CPI, and they opposed it. Nobody can say with precision what the effect of the indirect taxation on the items contained in the CPI might have been. The best that the employers could do, supported as they were by academics, economists and statisticians, was to say that the increase should be 4.8 per cent and not 3.2 per cent. In any event I utterly reject a 4.8 per cent increase as well. 
I hope that I am not right in the assumption that I now make, which is that the Government is behaving as though it wants to destroy wage indexation. That is what Treasury wants to do. Treasury did not want indexation to be brought in in the first place. I know that  Mr John  Stone, a  Deputy  Secretary of Treasury, is utterly opposed to wage indexation. I know that  Mr John  Stone was the one who was responsible for getting the ear of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and being successful in overturning the decision of the economic committee of Cabinet, when the full Cabinet met.  Mr John  Stone may very well suggest that the ordinary working man should receive only a 3.2 per cent increase. That means only $3.20 to a man earning $ 1 00 a week, but  Mr Stone,  already receiving nearly $30,000 a year, would be able to collect $16.70 when the 3.2 per cent increase flowed into his salary. Why should people like that be accepted as authorities on what people on the bottom rung of the ladder have to put up with? How can anybody live on $ 100 a week? Hundreds of thousands of people have to do so. It is a myth that nobody lives on the minimum wage, which is even less than $100 a week. Sixty-five per cent of the total population earn less than average weekly earning of $160 a week. It is all very well for people like  Mr Stone  and other senior public servants earning well over $25,000 a year to come along and tell the Government that it ought to put the screws on the man who has to keep a wife and family on less than $160 a week. How would they like it to be done to them? What the Government is doing in pressing on with this sort of policy is spoiling for a fight with the trade union movement.. I believe that the Government is spoiling for a fight. Nobody wants it. The employers want a fight with the trade union movement now like they want a hole in the head. They do not want it and they are distressed by what is being done by this Government, which claims to be a businessman's government, to bring about this sort of confrontation. 
Does the Government think that the waterside workers would not have got the 6.4 per cent increase anyhow? Does it think that the seamen would have accepted the Government's 3.2 per cent increase, or that the coal miners or the power workers or the construction workers or the metal workers would have accepted it? Of course they would not have. To imagine that by refusing to give the 6.4 per cent increase there would be no wage increases is madness because the workers would have got it anyhow. 
The only difference is that the unions with the industrial muscle would get a lot more than the 6.4 per cent and the workers with no muscle, who in many cases are those who need a wage increase most would get nothing at all. That is what will happen if wage indexation collapses. 
There is now some sanity coming back into the industrial relations arena in this country. The Conciliation and Arbitration Commission is now being treated as a credible body for dealing with industrial disputes. I congratulate the Commission on the decision that it took. The Government has no right to ask the Commission to become the executor of Government economic policy. There is no constitutional authority for the Commission to act as the executive arm in the economic policies of this or any other government. Its constitutional authority begins and ends in the prevention and settlement of industrial disputes and any attempt to impose upon the Commission something beyond that is not only wrong but also unconstitutional, invalid and should not be tolerated. It was completely wrong for this Government to have asked that Commission to take the stand that it suggested. I read the argument put by the Government's representative. It was a poor, weak argument and was properly described as such by the Commission. The Government's action in trying to deal with inflation by making the wage earner pay the cost - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I had not intended to talk about the Governor-General in this speech, but since the honourable member for Tangney  (Dr Richardson),  who has just resumed his seat, has seen fit to mention that august person I think I will say just a few words about him myself. What the Governor-General did on Remembrance Day will go down in history as one of the greatest travesties on political law, on democracy, that has ever been witnessed in this country, because if the Governor-General of this country is to be given the right, under the powers of the royal prerogative, to sack any government that he chooses, as he did on this occasion, no government could survive in a time of economic crisis. The present Government would not survive if the Governor-General were to be consistent enough to sack it as soon as it breaks its promises, or breaks a few more promises, as it will in the next 12 months. 
 I would like to see the present GovernorGeneral be impartial enough to exercise his royal prerogative of sacking this Government as soon as it reintroduces the proposed savage imposts upon television viewers and listeners to radio broadcasts. I venture to say that immediately the Government reintroduces those licence fees, and if the Governor-General has the propriety to dismiss the Government for a serious deception of the Australian people, this Government also will go out on its ear. Any government will go out on its ear if the Governor-General is going to be given the right to sack the Prime Minister of the day half way through his term and appoint his opponent in his place as the caretaker Prime Minister until an election is held. 
I want to talk about something that is even more important than the misdeeds of the 
Governor-General. I want to talk about the hopes of economic recovery in this country. We have no chance of economic recovery in this country unless we can get some stability in the industrial relations area. Every country in the world- every highly industrialised country, every highly capitalised country- knows that stability and progress depend upon harmonious relations between employers and employees; between capital and labour, if you like. We will find it difficult to get that in this country. However, there is a glimmer of hope that we may get it through wage indexation, in respect of which I am proud to say that I was the one who fathered and nurtured, it. I fought for it against tremendous opposition both from inside my Party and from outside the Party, but eventually it became an established fact. 
-I am the chief architect, as the honourable gentleman says. But the tragedy of wage indexation is that it came too late, and it came coupled with conditions that will make it completely unworkable. The wage indexation decision eventually was given a year later than it should have been given; it should have been given by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in May 1974. 1 do not blame the Arbitration Commission for not giving that decision then, faced with the political situation with which it was then faced. We will recall that it was in that month that this country was once again thrown into an election in mid-term, with the opposing parties taking opposite viewpoints on the question of wage indexation. The alternative government was declaring publicly that it would have nothing to do with indexation. The Government of the day declared that it was in favour of indexation. The Commission was in a dilemma. It is independent of governments. It very properly displayed that independence of the present Government which sought, without any rational reason whatsoever, to cut by half the amount that should have been given in accordance with the consumer price index.- The Commission rejected the Government's proposition. 
But the Commission does not lightly turn aside representations or submissions made to it by the government of the day, nor should it do so. In point of fact the Constitution ought to give the Federal Parliament the same power over industrial relations as has every other Parliament in Australia; that is to say, the right, by legislation if need be, to move in and to make industrial law. But we do not have that right, and it is only because of the constitutional restrictions that are placed upon the Parliament that the sole right to determine industrial relations resides with the Arbitration Commission. The Commission is mindful of that fact. It knows that it is only because of a quirk of fate that it is in the position of being the sole arbiter and that the Government has no constitutional right. But it recognises that a government elected by the people of Australia has a moral right at least- a de facto right, at any rate- to be heard. Unless there are weighty reasons for disregarding the viewpoint of an elected government, the Commission, I believe, ought to listen to what the Government has to say. 
There were weighty reasons on this occasion for the Commission to reject the Government's proposition that only half of the 6.4 per cent increase in the consumer price index should be awarded. The Commission realised that it was 6 months since the last increase in wages had been brought about as a consequence of consumer price index movements. The Commission had a much deeper appreciation of industrial relations than did the Treasury. It was the Treasury which was responsible for reversing the decision of Cabinet's Economic Committee to support the 6.4 per cent increase. The Commission had a much deeper appreciation of what was involved in industrial relations than did the Treasury. It is to the eternal credit of the Commission that it did have the courage to reject the proposition put to it by the Treasury via the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  The Treasury never did want wage indexation. It was opposed to it from the very beginning. It was opposed particularly by the  Deputy  Secretary (Economic) in the Treasury,  Mr Stone,  who is in fact the real head of the Department of the Treasury and who is the man who virtually now dominates the Treasury's thinking on all matters of economics and even on matters of industrial relations. 
I have an enormous respect for  Mr Stone.  He is a man of tremendous intellect. He is a man of great courage. He is not a man who will ever deceive a person. He will tell one straight to one's face and he will even tell the Press what he thinks about governments. He has never been stingy about giving his views of governments to governments themselves, to Opposition members who will listen to him, or to the Press. It has been a favourite method of his operation. But he is a physicist by initial training. He believes that it is possible because of his early training in physics to have an absolute rule which will not have to be bent, which cannot be bent, to deal even with industrial relations. Of course  Mr Stone  was the one who, having been defeated in his opposition to wage indexation, sought then to destroy wage indexation by the simple process of sabotaging what the Government was putting by succeeding in getting what is known as total indexation. Under total indexation no matter how high one 's salary one receives a percentage increase. In the case of  Mr Stone,  on $31,685 a year, a 6.4 per cent increase in the consumer price index would yield him a $38.80 per week increase. But to the man on $100 a week the increase would be only $6.40 a week. In other words, least is given to those whose needs are greatest and most to those whose needs are least. The Labor Government never intended that wage indexation should operate in this way. The policy in the platform of the Australian Labor Party is clear. It is against any system of wage fixation that widens the gap between the high income and the low and the middle income groups. Total indexation does precisely that. 
It does precisely that. The original concept of wage indexation dates back to 1921 when what were then known as the quarterly cost of living adjustments were introduced. They were introduced and applied only to the basic wage or, as there is now no basic wage, to the minimum wage- nothing more. It meant that that portion of the total wage that a person received that represented the portion of the wage that was needed to pay for his food, clothing and his necessities of life would be indexed so that according to the increase in the cost of living and according to the price movement for those things that represented the cost of living element of his wage, he would be fully reimbursed. It was never intended that because the price of potatoes and onions went up by 6 per cent- to take a figure- the portion of a person's wages that was set aside for buying Mercedes motor cars, beach shacks and fur coats should go up by 6 per cent too. That is what the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has awarded. That is why the decision on wage indexation carries the blemish that it now carries. 
The trouble in Australia today is that we are paying far too much money to the clerical and administrative grades of the Australian Public Service and too little to the tradesmen grades, to the technical grades and to the professional grades. It is absolutely absurd to think that a Class 4 clerk of the Third Division should be entitled to $ 1 80 per week, which can be claimed by a man 23 years of age, when a person who has been working for 23 years at the lathe, having served his apprenticeship first, gets $40 or $50 a week less than that. As Professor Borne discovered in the studies that he conducted, we are rapidly reaching a situation in which we will not get tradesmen. What young man will take on a trade training course when all that he will get at the end of his career is about $130 or $140 a week- for a 40-hour week working in a smoke filled factory with fumes, noise, dust and heatwhen he could get another $40 a week for 36% hours working for the Australian Government in an air conditioned office? 
It was not my pacesetter principle at all. I opposed it. I am glad of the interjection. I opposed all of the increases that were sought by the unions representing the clerical and administrative grades. I actually put a submission in to the Cabinet in opposition to it which the then Prime Minister withdrew from the Cabinet agenda. I opposed the increase that was sought in 1974 and I opposed the subsequent increases which the Public Service unions were trying to get. Honourable members will all remember my famous speech in August of 1974 in which I described certain public servants as the fat cats. Who will ever forget it? I was able to inject a term into the Australian vocabulary that I suppose will do more to make me remembered by the Public Service than anything else I have ever done. That was indicative of my attitude. I was not the author of the pacesetting attitude to wage increases in the clerical and administrative divisions of the Public Service. I want to lay that he to rest tonight once and for all. I have always said and I shall always continue to say that there is no proper appreciation of the part that is played by the technical, professional and tradesmen grades in our workforce. The administrative and clerical grades are getting too much, or if they are not getting too much, the technologists and the professional and tradesmen grades are getting far too little. It is as simple as that. With the permission of the House I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard the latest rates of pay now paid to the Second and Third Divisions of the administrative and clerical grades of the Australian Public Service. 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral a question. What information came to him which led to the police investigations into the alleged Iraqi donations scandal? 
I think the speech just delivered by the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  would be one of the most reactionary speeches that I have heard in this Parliament for more than 20 years. Indeed I would say that it is the most reactionary and frightening speech that his own National Country Party colleagues have ever heard because even they looked disturbed and terrified by the excesses to which this honourable gentleman was prepared to go. The honourable gentleman regards himself as the representative of rural interests only. He has no concern at all for the needs of secondary industry of our great cities or of the person who has only his or her labour to sell. 
The honourable member said: 'We will train the people immediately.' But that is the problem which I faced when I was the Minister for Labor and Immigration. People cannot be trained immediately to do the son of work that can be done by immediate training unless there is 'in-job' training available to follow up the preemployment training. We cannot have 'in-job' training in a period of high levels of unemployment. 
One of the great tragedies of the National Employment and Training scheme is that it was not introduced in August 1973 when 1 first sought to have it introduced. At that time it could have succeeded because it could have got off the ground when there was a high level of employment instead of having to wait, as we eventually did. until October 1974 by which time there was a high level of unemployment. That was the great tragedy of the scheme. 
The NEAT scheme is a very great scheme. It is a scheme of which once again I can claim to be the architect. Nothing like it had ever been dreamed of before in Australia. Before this scheme was introduced we had 12 separate schemes- a hotchpotch of schemes that did not represent anything rational. Under one of those schemes, after it had been operating for nearly a year, the Government of the day had succeeded in training 3 people. That was the sort of training which the Australian Labor Party found on the books of Government after 23 years of LiberalCountry Party government- a government of the same political persuasion as that which now says that it believes in immediate training. 
The success of the scheme depends, of course, on its attractiveness to prospective trainees. If the Government cuts the allowance it will cut the intake. If the intake is cut then the whole future of NEAT will be jeopardised. I repeat that NEAT is the first real attempt by this nation to overcome the problems that were forecast in the Borrie report. Honourable members should read the Borrie report and see what the future of this country is likely to be if we do not pay attention to training, especially to the training of tradesmen. If we do not spend more money on technical education and less on tertiary education, and if we do not produce more tradesmen, technicians and technologists and fewer Doctors of Philosophy, historians and people of that kind, industry in this country will face a perilous future. We need tradesmen urgently and we will need tradesmen more than ever in the immediate years ahead. 
The only real hope for industry is that it will not be handicapped by a shortage of skilled labour. The world has already been overtaken by technological change which is manifest in every industrial country. Industrial countries will not be able to survive in the years immediately ahead unless the demands of technology and industrial changes are met. We have to be prepared to spend a lot of money on it. 
As the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  said, the previous Government accepted the average award rates as the basis for the allowance which at that time was $90 a week. However, we decided that we would not increase the $90 a week after the December quarter because in the December quarter there had been substantial savings in taxation from which the NEAT trainees benefited in the same way as other workers benefited. But we said that, immediately the Arbitration Commission announced its decision in respect of wage indexation, we would apply to the NEAT allowance the increases reflected in the Consumer Price Index as might be applied by the Arbitration Commission to awards generally. In accordance with that proviso there was an increase in the NEAT allowance in May 1 975. If there has been none since then, that is not my fault. It is of no use honourable members opposite blaming me for it. All I can say is that while I was the Minister we did increase the NEAT allowance by indexing it in the way in which I had undertaken to do. 
As everybody knows, I was sacked very shortly after the last adjustment was made to the NEAT scheme; so I take absolutely no responsibility for what happened after my dismissal. I cannot recall the matter being discussed by the Cabinet at any meeting which I attended. So whoever decided not to continue the indexation of NEAT did so without my knowledge and, so far as I know, without the approval of the Cabinet. 
The Minister said that under the scheme when I was the Minister presumably people with good jobs just walked off the streets and qualified for a $96.80 training allowance. Of course, that is not true. If it is true it was done against my specific ministerial instructions. The minutes of the Department will show that I gave strict instructions that this was not to happen. 
There were anomalies at the beginning of the scheme. It was a brand new scheme. It had teething troubles. It had to have them. But these anomalies were stamped out as soon as I was aware of them. One very senior member of the Department of Labour and Immigration decided to give his own wife a NEAT training allowance, and other senior officers of my Department gave relatives and friends NEAT allowances under the scheme. But as soon as I discovered it I stamped it out. As a matter of fact there is a Liberal member of this Parliament whose wife right now is receiving a NEAT allowance at the Canberra College of Advanced Education. So let us not be too finicky about that. It should not occur and it can be stopped by administrative means without introducing a means test. 
It is true that unskilled people are the ones who need the most attention, but what is the use of talking about training unskilled people to do the kind of training that they can undertake in a period of very high unemployment? Rather than have the scheme collapse altogether because the employment climate was not suitable for a training scheme, requiring 'in-job' training, I decided to allow the scheme to be applied to tertiary training. In the departmental records there are numerous minutes in my own handwriting saying: 'How many more accountants are you going to train under this scheme? Please stop training people to become psychologists, sociologists, accountants or for some other similar occupations. Why do you not pay more attention to training people to become skilled tradesmen, technologists or technicians?' That is what I wrote time and time again on the minutes of the Department. The Minister knows that they were the sentiments which I expressed. At no stage did I ever suggest that the allowance ought to be reduced. Of course I did not. 
I believe that the NEAT scheme is not understood. I doubt whether anybody who has spoken so far, apart from the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  and the Minister, has even read the Cochrane Report that recommended NEAT. I would like permission to incorporate in  Hansard  the first recommendation of that Committee of Inquiry into Labour Market Training appearing on page vii of the report. 
1 MANPOWER FORECASTING (PARAGRAPH 2.33) 
The Committee recommends that- 
urgent consideration be given within the Department of Labour to the introduction of procedures for collecting labour market information and for monitoring changes occuring in the labour market both in terms of occupations and regions; 
priority be given to the provision of adequately trained staff to undertake this work; 
careful attention be given to the staffing of a manpower research unit being established by the Department of Labour to ensure that an energetic programme of research is directed towards the provision of information regarding Australia's future manpower requirements; 
this unit be charged with the responsibility of maintaining liaison with all other educational bodies and commissions; and that- 
-The scheme is an amalgamation of the 12 previously existing schemes in favour of one comprehensive scheme in the whole area of training. Its objectives were set out clearly on page vii of the report and I ask leave to have them incorporated. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Is it a fact that over recent weeks employers in the metal trades industry have acknowledged the correctness of my May 1975 assertion that there is a case for catch-up claims in the metal industry? Is it a fact too that  Mr Justice  Moore has convened conferences and has been aware of salary increases to various employees in particular branches of the metal industry to give effect to the clear case and claim by the metal unions for a catch-up claim in wages? 
This is a very important debate which concerns a subject about which many people are worried. It is not only those who are unemployed who are worried but also those who fear that they may become unemployed and those who resent the idea that people who work should be forced to pay taxes to keep in unemployment benefits those who deliberately refuse to work. So this is not a black and white issue. I would commend to honourable members the speech of the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  who criticised everyone else for leaving the chamber as soon as they had spoken but who I notice has already left himself. The honourable member spoilt a fairly good speech by what he said in his concluding three or four sentences, although some of what he said earlier did contain an element of truth. 
When I was Minister for Labour and later Minister for Labor and Immigration I publicly expressed great concern about the activities of some people, a very small number of unemployed, who were voluntarily unemployed. These people were unemployed by choice. They were not great in number but to have any is to have too many. On 3 occasions I sought to have the work test tightened in such a way that such would not be possible. There is nobody in the community who will support a Party that supports the dole bludger or the man who will not work. Let us get that clear There are no votes in supporting people who deliberately will not work. At the same time honourable members opposite will find that there are no votes in going to the other extreme, in imposing penalties upon people who are out of work, just because they are out of work. 
I repeat that when I was the Minister I made it clear that unemployed persons should not be allowed to leave a locality where work is available to live in a place where it is not. Some unemployed young men left Newcastle where they could have got work in the steel mills to seek jobs on the north coast of New South Wales and on the Gold Coast of Queensland. The number of men who did this in respect of the Gold Coast was not great; it was not nearly as many as the newspapers made out. I condemned their action in leaving a place where they could have got a job to go to a place where they knew they could not get one. I told officers of my Department that I wanted them to take special steps to see that this practice was stamped out. I said that people should not be permitted to behave or dress deliberately in such a way as to repel prospective employers from employing them. A few isolated cases occurred in which young men and women did behave and did dress and did arrange to smell in such a way as would cause people not to employ them. There were not many but there were some who thought it was smart to do exactly that, and the public will not support that sort of thing. 
I said that people should not be allowed to refuse work similar to that which they had been accustomed to doing, but I did not take it any further. I did not say that they should be refused unemployment benefits because they would not take work to which they had not been accustomed. It is quite wrong, as proposed now, to make a toolmaker or a tradesman or a technician or a professional man take employment that is beneath his normal status and beneath the normal wages he would earn simply to punish him for being unemployed. 
I said that single girls of tender age should not be compelled to leave their parental homes to work in localities away from home, and no fairminded person would take issue with me on that. I said that no married man should be required to work in localities where he would have to live away from home and away from his wife and family, and I hope that no one in this place will take issue with me on that. 
I said that no one should be required to work for less than the going rate. If I may pause to explain what is meant by the going rate, it is the actual rate paid as distinct from the award rate. At the time of the minimum wage case in 1973, when the minimum wage was increased to $60 the going rate in some awards for an adult male was $47. The awards were never updated because once the award rate fell behind the minimum wage some of the unions concerned saw no point in having the award rates updated. It would not have been reasonable to say to a person who was out of work: 'You have to take a job as a carriage cleaner for $47 a week', when the minimum wage was $60 although the award rate for an adult male carriage cleaner was only $47. 1 do not put that as a specific example of what actually happened, or of a particular award, but it illustrates the sort of point I am making. I do not believe that even where the award rate is above the minimum rate it should be possible to compel a person to accept it. 
Let me give an example. The award rate a few months ago for a fitter and turner was $106 but in some industries the fitter and turner was entitled to a $60-a-week over award payment. Imperial Chemical Industries was one example of that; perhaps it was the only place where a fitter and turner received as much as $60, but in most of the metropolitan foundries and metal shops the going rate was very much higher than the award rate. Again, I hope that nobody in this Parliament would say that it is proper to push fitters and turners into a workshop where the going rate is $ 160 a week when the award rate is only $ 120. 1 hope that the award rate will not be treated as the cast iron criterion for determining whether or not a person will be put out of work. When I was Minister I always said that I would not have a person forced to take work in a place that was dangerous, in a place where the environment was injurious to his health or in an industry where there was an unresolved industrial dispute. 
All of the things I have mentioned will indicate to the Government the intricacies and complexities of trying to fix guidelines that will be fair and will not cause a backlash against those people who believe that it can be done simply by altering the rules. It is true that I asked almost constantly for a review of the guidelines. I thought that it was quite wrong to have a dichotomy of control with the Department of Social Security making the final decision on whether or not a person would get unemployment benefits, and with my own Department being permitted to decide only whether certain guidelines had been complied with. It would have been much better for the Department of Labour and Immigration, as it then was, to be the only department administering unemployment benefits, with its decisions being binding on people in receipt of unemployment benefits or seeking them. The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  asserted that the Labor Government would have accepted the refinements to the guidelines recommended by the interdepartmental committee. I do not believe that it would have. I can certainly speak for myself and say that I would not have accepted them had I remained Minister for Labour and Immigration. 
I have referred to the abuse of unemployment benefits that occurred on the Gold Coast. I arranged for a study to be made of unemployment there. The tripartite committee that was set up had on it a representative of the Queensland Trades and Labour Council, a representative of the employers and, if I remember correctly, the regional director for Brisbane,  Mr Sharp.  The committee made an on-the-spot investigation of the actual level of employment on the Gold Coast, and I was surprised to find that the level of abuse was nothing like the level that I personally believed existed and certainly nothing like the level of abuse said by the newspapers to exist. There is always a tendency to exaggerate these things. If one case is found it becomes ten; the next person makes it one hundred, and before you know where you are members of the Liberal and National Country Parties are talking about tens of thousands of people who are allegedly bludging on the dole. 
In regard to referring people to work, there are 3 1 000 job vacancies in Australia today and only 9000 of those are for unskilled workers. When those 9000 jobs are taken up, what is going to happen to the balance of 216 000 people who are receiving unemployment benefits? Is the Government going to punish the first 30 000 who refuse to go away from home or accept lower wages or bad working conditions and then say to the others: 'There are no more jobs to offer you so you can go gaily on as you have in the past.' There have been plenty of examples of serious abuses of unemployment benefits, and I refer not only to the sort of abuse that occurs when one person gets unemployment benefits when he is not entitled to them or should not get them because he is voluntarily unemployed. There are not many of those cases- although there should not be any. But there are cases of people who fraudulently apply for unemployment benefits in several names. When I was Minister for Labour and Immigration instances occurred in Melbourne and in Sydney in which in isolated cases one person was drawing unemployment benefits in as many as 7 different names. The Collingwood office of the Commonwealth Employment Service had to call in an officer from another office to help out when somebody was sick and that officer happened to recognise a person who came in as being somebody who was already getting unemployment benefits at his own CES office. This goes on, and I do not know how the Government is going to stamp it out. I do not know how it will ever be able to stamp it out. 
We are short of statistics, but that is not the fault of the Department. That is the fault of governments- this Government, the Government before it and the Government before that. What we urgently need in the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations is an uptodate, computerised method of keeping track of job opportunities and people who are unemployed. It also needs the kind of computerised assistance which in America and more enlightened countries is available to the people doing the sort of work that our people in the Commonwealth Employment Service have to do. Our people get virtually nothing at all to help them. 
It is of no use for the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)  to say that change of status is unimportant. It may not be important to him because he thinks he will be in this place for the rest of his life, but he will find his status changed after the next election and then he will find that change of status is important. The speech that he made will do more towards guaranteeing a change of his status than anything else that he could possibly do. Is the Government really serious in saying that a toolmaker is to be made to dig trenches? Is it serious in saying that an architect is to be made to do labouring work? Perhaps in the case of an architect this Government will only make him become a draftsman? We cannot distinguish between different employment categories. We have to have a rule that is fair to everybody, a rule that applies equally to everybody. 
Of course it is honourable work. 
There is dignity in any labour, that is true; and there is more dignity in labour when one gets more money for it. 
I agree with that. He is not. It is nonsense for honourable members opposite to say that it is better to take any job at $140 a week than to be on unemployment benefit. Under the same rules, this would permit a man - 
I direct my question to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Is it a fact that on Monday of this week the Industrial Registrar convened a meeting of officials of unions which have not yet altered their rules to meet the statutory requirement that as from November of this year a full-time union officer entitled to vote as a member of the management committee of the organisation shall be directly elected by the membership of the union? If so, has he received a report that one of these officials, a senior officer of the Federated Clerks' Union of Australia and a member of the National Civic Council, requested the Registrar to exempt his union from the requirements of the Act on the ground that the Government had given his organisation an undertaking that it proposed to amend the Act to remove the requirements for rank and file elections. Has the Government given such an undertaking? 
I ask a question of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Are the Press reports correct which state that he is recommending to Cabinet that the Government will - 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it the practice of the Commonwealth of Australia to purchase the law libraries of persons appointed as Federal Judges. 
If so, what are the particulars of all such library purchases since December 1949. 
I wish to raise a matter that is quite serious. It relates to the ballot shortly to commence in the Victorian Branch of the Federated Clerks Union. The ballot is being officially conducted by the Commonwealth electoral officer. The nominations for aU positions closed only a fortnight ago and ballot papers will go out, so I am informed, on 10 May, that is, the 10th of next month. The National Civic Council is fielding a full team for all positions behind the leadership of  Mr John  Maynes. These candidates are opposed by a full team of Australian Labor Party supporters. 
The matter about which I wish to complain and to which I require the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  to turn his mind is the fact that the electoral officer conducting the ballot has taken the extraordinary step- unprecedented as far as I can ascertainof refusing to allow the candidates opposing the NCC nominees access to the electoral roll. This is an extraordinary and unprecedented action on the part of the electoral officer. With your concurrence,  Mr Speaker,  I want the Minister, by the time question time comes next Tuesday, to tell the House what steps he has taken to ensure that all candidates in this election are given equal rights to canvass the voters who will be deciding the result of the election. 
I have had a fair deal to do with officially conducted ballots. It is my experience that the electoral officer Will always make available to the opposing candidates the voters roll so that both sides Will have equal opportunity to reach the electors. The incumbent officials of course have the rolls available to them from the union office, so that the sitting officials have the decided advantage that they have access to the names of everybody who will be entitled to vote. If the electoral officer does not change his ruling quickly, it will mean that only one side to the election will know who is entitled to vote and the other side will have no opportunity to reach the voters. Nothing could be more detrimental to the good name of officially conducted ballots. Nothing could do more to bring into disrepute the Government's belief in officially conducted ballots than for the complaint that I am now talking about to be allowed to continue uncorrected. I say no more at this stage. 
I have plenty of other material which I shall use next week if I have not received a satisfactory answer from the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations about the electoral officer's behaviour. It is a new stance by the Electoral Office. I am very suspicious that there is some liaison or worse, some collusion, between the NCC and somebody inside either the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations or the Electoral Office. 
It may even have been a directive from a Minister. Any of those situations would be too serious to contemplate and certainly too serious to tolerate. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. By way of preface I refer to what I said in the adjournment debate on Thursday night of which I asked the Minister's private secretary to take note and apprise the Minister accordingly. I now ask the Minister Is it a fact that in the Federated Clerks Union elections in Victoria in previous years, conducted by the Industrial Registrar, the candidates for office were supplied with copies of the electoral roll? Is it a fact that when one of the candidates recently lodged his nomination with the Electoral Office in Melbourne he was told in the presence of witnesses that the candidates would again be supplied with copies of the electoral roll? Is it also a fact that in spite of this candidates will not now be supplied with copies of the electoral roll by the Electoral Office? If this is a fact, what steps does the Minister intend taking to ensure that the practices of previous years are complied with in the forthcoming election? 
I want to talk about the collegiate system of voting in union elections. I begin by saying that the Australian Labor Party's platform provides for participatory democracy in union affairs and provides that no financial union member shall be deprived of the right to vote in the election of union committees exercising any powers of management and that no committee man shall be permitted to occupy a full time office unless he is elected by a direct secret vote of the rank and file of his union. However, the 1973 Conciliation and Arbitration Act gave unions until mid-November of 1976 to comply with the provisions of the 1973 Act. The rules of the more democratic unions had already provided for the direct vote of members for all offices. Those that did not took the necessary steps to bring their rules into line with the requirements of the 1973 Act. I ask for leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a list giving examples of the unions which had full time office bearers elected directly by the membership and those where the election was by the collegiate system. 
I thank the House. Some of these unions, as will be seen from the list have held back. In the main, they were extreme right wing unions whose officers were afraid to face a direct vote of their rank and file. In the main they were unions dominated by the National Civic Council. In the main they were unions that confidently predicted that they would be able to get from this Government the right to continue with an anti-democratic control of their unions. 
They first attempted to subvert my successor,  Senator James  McClelland.  Mr Maher  and  Mr John  Maynes, both of them NCC agents, made representations to persuade the Labor Government to alter the Act to allow a continuation of the collegiate system of depriving union membership of a direct vote for office holders.  Senator James  McClelland rejected their representations out of hand and the matter never even reached the Cabinet room. I pay tribute to the very fine work carried out by  Mr Joe  Riordan in opposing this insidious attempt by NCC agents to persuade  Senator James  McClelland to defy Labor Party policy and the platform of the Australian Labor Party to bring in this anti-democratic system of controlling union officials. But then these people gambled on the possibility of the Senate refusing Supply, of forcing a double dissolution and bringing about the defeat of the Labor Government. They seemed to be better informed about what the Governor-General intended to do than the Government was. It is certain that they apparently knew as much about the intention of the Governor-General as the then Leader of the Opposition knew. They knew that if they could defeat the then Government they would have the power to get their own way and to prevent the rank and file of their unions from having a direct say in the election of office holders. 
They had an important advocate for their cause right inside the Department of Labor and Immigration. They knew that Santamaria could put the indian sign on the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  whenever he wanted to. And he has done it and he has got what he wanted. They knew that they could also count on the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  with whom they had established important ideological links when he was the Minister for Labour and National Service. But I ask these people to answer this simple question: What are they afraid of? Why are they afraid to let the rank and file of their unions have a direct vote for the election of the office holders of their union? My Conciliation and Arbitration Bill provided that the cost of officially conducted union ballots would be paid for by the Government. They cannot argue that the conducting of these extra elections will cost the small unions money that they cannot afford to pay because, I repeat, my 1973 Bill provided that all officially conducted ballots would be paid for completely by the Government. They cannot argue the cost aspect. They cannot even argue the physical disabilities aspect because that, too, would have been taken care of under the 1973 Bill. 
I say quite openly and quite proudly that I have frequently been personally responsible for organising petitions for the holding of officially conducted ballots in the Australian Workers Union. I knew that if we did not have an officially conducted ballot in the AWU we would not have a fair dinkum ballot; it would be a corrupt ballot. Therefore I was in favour of officially conducted ballots inside the Australian Workers Union. I was in that Union for longer than anybody in this building. I know more about that Union and its history of ballot corruption than almost any person in Australia. I had no alternative but to organise the holding of officially conducted ballots. I never knew any opposition to come from the rank and file members of the Australian Workers Union to the petitions for clean ballots that I used to take around and organise. I never struck any opposition from within the AWU. I never knew any rank and file member that I approached to refuse to sign a petition for an officially conducted ballot and I do not believe that there is very much difference between the rank and file members of the AWU and the rank and file members of most other unions. 
As a matter of historical record, the AWU's executives are now actually asking the Registrar to carry out all of the ballots of the AWU by the officially conducted system. The members of the executive no longer see any advantage in trying to rig ballots. They know that if they do their jobs they will win any ballot without having to rig it. Rigged ballots are only essential to people who are not doing their jobs. People who do their jobs and who are true to their trust have nothing to fear from a clean ballot of the rank and file. The Federated Ironworkers Association of Australia has for years had written into its registered rules a provision requiring that all ballots of the union shall be conducted by the Electoral Officer. 
The Street proposal, which, if it has not already gone to the Cabinet, will shortly go to it, provides as a kind of pay-off for this antidemocratic proposal of retaining the collegiate system a sop which says that provision will be made to allow the rank and file to petition for a ballot to alter the rules in favour of rank and file ballots where the collegiate system already operates and, conversely, to allow those who have a rank and file ballot to petition for an alteration of the rules to bring in the collegiate system. Let me say with quite a degree of certainty that the latter proposal is never likely to eventuate. 
The collegiate system is undemocratic. It is unworthy of any government or any country that preaches democracy and participatory democracy within the trade union movement. It is contrary to the solemn promise which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  gave to the electorate on the hustings. He received massive support for his promise to give unionists the right to elect their own office holders in secret ballots. It was support that was not deserved because every union's rules already provide for secret ballots. A union cannot get registration unless its rules do so. But it was a political gimmick that paid off. I know that it paid off because I met people on the factory floor who said that they were attracted by the Prime Minister's promise to allow the rank and file to have a direct voice in the election of their office holders. Nobody should imagine that it did not win votes for the Government; it did. But, of course, by the same rule it will lose votes for the Government now that those who voted for it in the belief that they were going to get the democratic direct voice of the rank and file know that they are going to get only an indirect voice and that handfuls of men calling themselves the management committees of unions will elect each other to the most important full time positions at the federal level. It will only need 12 people in the second largest union in Australia to get together and elect between themselves their own federal secretary, their own federal  president,  their own federal vice-presidents, their own trustees and their own returning officers under the electoral system. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
-The unfair part about the Government's proposal is that those unions which sought to comply with the Act which this Parliament passed in 1973, which required that the right of the rank and file to elect its own office holders should be sacrosanct and which brought their rules in line with the requirements of the Act are now being put in the position of being worse off than those unions which sought to delay their compliance with the 
Act until the very eleventh hour. The Miscellaneous Workers Union, the Electrical Trades Union and the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union, to name but three of the largest unions but by no means the only ones who had previously been using the collegiate system for the election of office holders, complied with the requirements of the Act and are now in the position that the officials will be stuck with the rank and file system of electing officers unless they are able to persuade the rank and file to give up their right to directly elect their officers. I am referring specificially now to the Minister's submission to Cabinet. It says: 
Having regard to the objections both by employer and employee organisations, it would seem desirable to permit organisations to have rules providing for a collegiate system of voting provided that members of the organisation could request a plebiscite supervised by the Australian Electoral Office to be held if they desired to change to a system of direct voting. In my view, this would not cut across our policy proposals in relation to democratic control and supervised ballots and would be in accordance with the policy in connection with fundamental changes to the rules of an organisation. If we adopted this approach it would follow that we should allow organisations by plebiscite of the membership to change their rules from a direct voting system to a collegiate system. I propose that we remove the requirements inserted in 1973 providing for the direct election of all fulltime office holders. 
There are 2 things about that part of the Minister's submission to Cabinet. The first is that it would appear that all you have to do is to object to something that the Government proposes to do and the Government will not proceed with it. The Minister starts off by saying, in effect; 'Having regard to the objections that have been lodged by employer and employee organisations we now do not propose to go ahead with the proposal'. Does this mean that the Government will pay the same regard to objections from unions to all the other things that it proposes? If it does, the Government will have to back down on a lot of the promises or threats which the Government made when it was on the hustings. The Government will get plenty of protests and plenty of objections- to use precisely the term used by the Minister- when it seeks to bring these other amendments into the Act. 
The other thing of which I would like to remind the Minister is that the Act passed by Parliament in 1973 was not an Act that the Labor Government railroaded through both Houses by the use of the guillotine and without the approval of the Liberal and Country Parties. The Liberal and Country Parties did not oppose that provision in this House. They did not oppose it in the Senate. They could have used their numbers in the Senate to prevent the proposal for the abolition of the collegiate system from ever getting into the 1973 Act had they wished. But no, they did not. They believed the Bill was right then. They must have believed it was right or they would have used their majority to reject it. What sort of double standards does the Government have and use in relation to matters of this kind. Those union officials who refused to comply with the Act, waiting until the very last minute allowed to them under the provisions of the Act to make changes to their rules, are now in the position presumably that the rank and file will not be able to get rid of the collegiate system unless the rank and file first of all are able to get enough names to obtain a petition for a plebiscite to decide whether the collegiate system is to remain or be abolished. 
The Minister has not said, and he does not appear yet to have given indications of ever saying, in the statute what number of members will be required to obtain a successful petition. I suggest to the Minister that the number ought to be written into the statute. It is not good enough to have it in the regulations. Any Minister in the Executive Council, which means the Minister concerned, one other Minister and the GovernorGeneral, can alter the required number needed for a successful petition, as has already been done on many occasions. I do not agree with the whole concept of the collegiate system for a start, but if we have to have a collegiate system and there is a provision for a plebiscite I do not disagree with the idea of a petition. The number of people required to obtain a petition ought to be written into the Act. The figure of 250 or onefifth of the total membership, whichever is the smaller, is contained in the regulations now. That ought to be written into the Act so that it can remain there and no Ministers can fiddle the regulations to suit their political friends. 
-One-fifth is the same as one-twentieth, I think. No, the figure should be 5 per cent. I beg your pardon. The Minister has the advantage of Melbourne Grammar; I only went to Loos School. The figure is 5 per cent or one-twentieth of the total membership. I thank the Minister. I am obliged to him. I would like to tell the Minister something else. I am grateful to him and in a way flattered by the fact that he left his delegation to come and listen to me. He must not be misled by what allegedly occurred at the Arbitration Committee of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. My information from ACTU Executive officers is that the Committee's decisions are not binding on the ACTU until they are endorsed by the ACTU full Executive. They have not been yet endorsed by the ACTU full Executive and in my opinion they are not likely to be endorsed. 
They are a point of view that was put to the Committee by the National Civic Council's prime representative,  Mr John  Maynes, who came into the meeting without warning and threw onto the table of the meeting of the Committee opinions and legal views prepared by  Mr Tony  Macken who I am told by people inside the NCC is to succeed Santamaria as the  Chairman  of the NCC if he does not get appointed to the Industrial Court first. That is my information. I would like to know whether, in seeking to change from the collegiate system to the rank and file direct vote, the same kind of stipulation will be put into the Act as was put into the Act in respect of amalgamation proceedings. The collegiate system cannot be changed even by a plebiscite of the members unless there is a 50 per cent response from everybody entitled to vote. If this proposal is to be in the Act it will stand branded for what it is. 
This is a blatant breach of a solemn electoral promise, of an electoral mandate, sought by the Government and obtained by the Government. It is a cynical disregard for the will of the electorate. It is an unashamed betrayal of all those who believed that the Prime Minister and the Liberal Party stood for rank and file control of trade unions. Nothing that the Government says again at an election will ever be believed by those people who on this occasion were silly enough to believe that when the Government said it believed in democratic control of trade unions it did believe in it, because the reintroduction of the collegiate system proves beyond all doubt that it does not believe in union democracy. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
Will he consider the merits of requiring wine makers to indicate on wine labels (a) sugar content, (b) alcohol content, (c) pH and (d) acidity (expressed in grams/litre as tartaric acid) of the contents of each bottle of wine sold in Australia. 
I begin on an entirely different note from that which has dominated the speeches so far. If time permits I will revert to the points made by previous speakers. But I begin by pointing out the fact that by allowing rich people to opt out of Medibank we are introducing into legislation a principle that is extremely bad. We are moving away from the long accepted principle that those who can afford most should pay most. We are moving away from the principle of progressive income tax. 
-Yes, survival of the fittest. We are moving away from the principle that those who get most out of society should be forced to put most back into it. The rich are the ones who should pay most in tax to meet the general cost of keeping the whole of our population in good health, as they are now required to meet a greater share per dollar earned than the poor meet, for the cost of defence, roads, schools, and the other items of public expenditure. Progressive taxation for all questions and all items of government expenditure is the correct method of raising revenue. The decision of the Australian Labor Party Government to wipe out television and radio listeners licence fees was a decision taken deliberately because it meant that people were compelled to pay the same amount of money per annum for the right to listen to a radio or look at a television set, irrespective of their income. The poor were made to pay exactly the same sum of money as the rich were required to pay. It would not surprise me if this Government followed the course it has now taken to allow the rich to opt out of paying the extra amount which progressive taxation we had proposed would require them to pay, and allow them to opt out of television licence obligations as well. For political reasons I hope that it does because if this Government does reintroduce television and radio listeners licences, then the Labor Party will tell the people at the next election that the election of a Labor government will mean the abolition of those licences again. If this Government imposes upon the people of Australia a tax in the form of radio listeners licences, we will tell the people that we will do away with them again. We will let every one of the 3 'A million television viewers know that a vote for the Labor Party at the next election will mean $40 or $70 extra in their pockets each year. 
If this Government is going to let people opt out of Medibank because they find it profitable to do so by calculating the amount they would have to pay in progressive income tax against what they would have to pay by going into a private hospital, the Government might as well let banks, insurance companies, big property owners and rich people living in residential areas who have their own private guards, have the right to opt out of paying a portion of the tax they would normally pay. The Government might as well say to people who use their private motor cars to go to work that they ought to have the right to opt out of paying that portion of the income tax that is now set aside for public transport. The Government might as well say that people who do not use air travel ought to have the right to opt out of the obligation to pay that portion of their income tax that is used to meet navigational charges and to construct airports. The Government might as well do the same thing in respect of people who do not use boat havens or people who do not use public parks or recreational grounds. 
The Government's proposal is 2-pronged in design. Firstly, it is really designed to destroy Medibank ultimately. That is the long term aim of the Government- to destroy Medibank. We have always known this. There have been the more articulate and more honest members on the Government side who have been prepared to say that this is the grand design of the Liberal Party. 
-A lot of your colleagues have said it. The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  has said it. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who has not said it, is nonetheless doing it very effectively. It is an attempt to slug the poor. I read in the newspapers a couple of days ago that the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has decided to opt out of Medibank. He has 30 000 reasons for opting out of Medibank. On $30,000 a year as a Minister of State he, of course, has a very good reason to opt out. Let me examine the Treasurer's financial position and the financial reasons- the hippocket nerve reason- for the Treasurer deciding to opt out. 
It is so true, and it does do me credit to tell the truth. It would do you credit to tell the truth occasionally and to try to follow my example. If the Treasurer were forced to pay the amount of money that he ought to pay- that is, 2.5 per cent of his total income- he would be paying $900 a year in tax towards meeting the cost of Medibank in providing services for the people who are not getting $30,000 a year. But no, the Treasurer says: 'I am not going to do that. I am going to opt out of it and lam going to get my own private insurance '. 
-That is right, and when I was getting that sort of money I never once asked anybody to let me opt out of my obligation to pay my whack into the Treasury to make it possible for the poor to get some benefit from what I was paying. Under the scheme we proposed for a 1.35 per cent levy the Treasurer would be paying $400. Under cur proposal a person on $150 a week would have been paying only $78 a year. Under the Government's proposal that person will have to pay $195 a year. Let us turn now to the situation of a very rich man on $50,000 a year, and there are a lot of people getting $50,000 a year in this country. There should not be, but there is a great disparity in the incomes of people in this country. A person on $50,000 a year can opt into Medibank and get for $300 a year the same benefits from Medibank as a man on $12,000 will get, but the man on $ 12,000 is required under this legislation to pay a 2.5 per cent levy on his income whilst the man on $50,000 pays a levy of 0.6 per cent on his income in order to opt into Medibank and to get all of the benefits. A man on $50,000 a year gets all of the same benefits for a levy of 0.6 per cent whilst a man on $ 12,000 a year has to pay a levy of 2.5 per cent. 
I am convinced, having listened to the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass),  that the public hospitals are the best. I have maintained my subscription to the private medical fund, but when I go back to Adelaide I am going to consider writing a letter to the fund cancelling my subscription. I am going to take the honourable member's advice and opt into Medibank instead. I did not know until I heard the honourable member and the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  2 learned medical men, tell me that public hospitals are infinitely better than private hospitals. All of us are being led by the nose into joining the private medical funds because we have been mesmerised into believing that private hospitals are the best. I thank those 2 honourable gentlemen for the excellent advice they have given me. Not only will I consider changing, but I will do everything I can to tell the people of the electorate of Hindmarsh that they ought to do the same. 
I want to refer to a matter which has a great bearing on industrial relations, and I hope that the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  will be listening to what 1 am saying and will come into the House to give his views on the points that I am about to make. For a long time now, ever since the Whybrow and Co. case, there have been many instances of case law which have indicated that one of the great weaknesses in industrial relations has been the fact that unions have to serve logs of claims on employers that would keep them within ambit during the currency of the proposed award; that is to say, if there is a possibility that during the currency of the award there will be a rapid increase in wages or there will be a change in working conditions or standard hours or annual leave, the union has to make certain that the log of claims that it serves will be anticipating at least the standard of wages and working conditions which might ultimately come about before the award expires. This means that unions, in accordance with the case law as it now stands, have to serve claims which contain seemingly extravagant demands in relation to wages and working hours and working conditions, otherwise they would have to go to the expense of reserving all of the employers bound by that particular award. 
When I was secretary of the Australian Workers Union we found that every time we served a new log of claims for a new pastoral award it cost us many thousands of pounds. Goodness knows what it would cost now to serve 27 000 cited respondents to the pastoral award. Just before I was sacked as Minister for Labor and Immigration I was working on a regulation that would allow substituted service for logs of claims so that unions could make claims that were more realistic, by servicing, say, the association of the employers concerned only and that copies of the log of claims could then be published in the Government  Gazette. 
I appeal to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations to give very serious consideration to the regulation I was considering during the first half of last year; that is to say, issue a regulation which will authorise unions to service by substituted service on employers instead of having to serve all of the employers, as is now the case. Because it will not be so costly, as is now the case, to serve all respondents they will be able to make claims that are more realistic. The trouble has been that because the High Court's ruling has made unions keep within the ambit of the original log of claims before subsequent variations to the award can be tolerated or entertained by the Commission, unions have had to anticipate in advance; they have had to set claims that were quite unrealistic. Because they were set at levels necessary to meet the consequences of High Court law, the members felt cheated when they did not get the full extent of the claim made on their behalf. 
Those claims are quite unreal. They set quite unreal levels of expectation for the employees, and when the claims are not met the employees blame the union officials for not having done their job Correctly, or they blame the arbitrators for being biased or not acting in accordance with proper principles. The Minister can strike a very important blow for sensible industrial relations if he will take up where I left off, consider issuing regulations which will make it possible to serve logs of claims on, say, a nominal number of respondents- perhaps the original association of employers which is appropriate to cover the employers that you wish to cover by the log of claims- and then allow the unions by substituted service to cover the rest of the employers by notification through the Government  Gazette. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 496 which asks for an answer to question No. 1 85 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 8 March. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 185 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 1 8 March. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Has he had the proposed non-contributory superannuation entitlements for Commonwealth public servants independently costed by a person having no direct pecuniary interest in the proposed amendments. 
If not, will he do so, and state (a) the total annual cost to the taxpayers of the new benefits in each of the years 1 980, 1985 and 1990, compared with the cost for such each year under the existing scheme, (b) the total annual cost to the non-government sector of extending similar superannuation entitlements to non-public servants for each of the same years and (c) whether the costs referred to in paragraph (b) will be met by increased taxation or will be borne by employers in the non-government sector. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I suggest that this debate might be adjourned until Tuesday. I understand that the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  is coming in soon to make a statement. I will not be able to finish my speech in the time available today. I do not like to start a speech and then have to finish it four days or five days later. Therefore, I move: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation on the ground that I have been misrepresented by a newspaper. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, by referring to the decision of the Arbitration Commission last week to adopt one of the Government's options in implementing a system of wage indexation based upon the plateau of Average Award Rates for adult males- a principle in line with the application of the Australian Council of Trade Unions in the parent case in 1 974. 1 now ask: Can we expect that from now on the Government will support that principle before the Arbitration Commission in all future hearings of the Commission in relation to wage indexation? If so, will the Minister also support the principle that hearings of these cases should be dispensed with unless there are special circumstances justifying a Full Bench hearing again and that henceforth these wage indexation principles will be applied automatically and quarterly? 
I begin by referring to something which the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  said in his concluding remarks. He said that nobody in Australia would like to be in the shoes of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  Well, let me inform the honourable gentleman that there is nothing I would like more than to be in the Minister's shoes. It took a lot of getting me out of them. I would like to get back into them again, and if I were there I would not be doing some of the things that are now proposed. 
I was impressed by some of the remarks of the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp).  He is correct when he says that the Conciliation and Arbitration Act is the most sensitive piece of legislation on the statute book. It is the most complex Act with which we in this Parliament ever have to deal. When one touches a small subsection or alters a word in that complex, sensitive Act, one never knows what the chain reaction might be, what the side effects in some other part of the Act might be, or what effect it will have upon industrial relations. The honourable member for Hotham did not put the following proposal to the Minister, but I will. There is enormous merit in supporting the setting up of a select committee of members from both sides of this Parliament, from both Houses of the Parliament, to prepare a Green Paper on questions such as the collegiate system. I know I am departing from the clause, but I must add this example. One other matter that ought to be dealt with in the Green Paper is the power of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to deregister. That power should reside in a full bench of at least 3 Presidential members of the Commission and not left, as is now the case, to the Australian Industrial Court. There are certain circumstances in which the Commission can deregister now, but all applications for deregistration of unions ought to be a matter for the Commission. But it is a power which should be exercised only by a full bench of 3 Presidential members of the Commission. It knows the facts of the case better than the Court knows them. That is one thing with which a Green Paper could deal. There is a whole range of matters relating to conciliation and arbitration which have never really been studied in depth or in a bipartisan way. We ought to do it, and do it quickly, and not always be calling in the fire brigade after the fire has broken out. We should take the action needed to see that no fire breaks out. 
I know my friend from Hotham would not ever want to be unfair about this matter, but I thought he was a bit unfair when he blamed the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations for the sloppy drafting of the legislation. He did not describe it as such, but I interpreted his remarks as such. It is. not the Department's job to draft the legislation. The drafting of legislation is a matter for the Parliamentary Counsel. When I sought to have some outside person draft a piece of legislation on one occasion, my experience was that the Parliamentary Counsel took very strong exception. He said: 'We are the ones who know most about drafting things. We do not want some other style of drafting grafted on to the kind of statutes with which we deal in this Parliament. ' Even if it were the Department's responsibility to draft this Bill, which it is not, I think one would have to take into account the way in which the Government has shilly-shallied over what it intends to put to the Parliament. I can assure the Minister- I would say this with my hand on the dispatch box, in fact- that this is not something which  Mr McMahon,  the legal adviser sitting in the ministerial advisers' benches, told me when I spoke to him a moment ago. We were talking about the cold weather and how nasty the weather in Melbourne always is, rather than about this Bill. We have not discussed it. 
The Government has shilly-shallied, put things in and taken things out in a way that is rather unbecoming even for a government. We cannot blame the Department, for the fact that the Government has acted in this way. But having done so, it is inevitable that someone will overlook an ordinary interpretation amendment such as this one. 
The collegiate system of voting was talked about. It is ironic that the Government which now sits on the Treasury benches was elected to government because it told the Australian people, and in particular the 5 250 000 employees in the work force: 'If you vote for us we will hand control of the unions back to the members. We will give you participatory democracy'. The very first speeches that we heard in the Parliament about the question of participatory democracy within the trade union movement from the Government were a condemnation of the Australian Labor Party's federal policy of 'participatory democracy'. The Labor Party's platform goes on to outlaw the collegiate system on the basis that it conflicts with and violates the principle of participatory democracy. The Labor Party's federal platform does not outlaw the collegiate system entirely. It says that unions that did not already have the collegiate system in any form as of 1973 would never be allowed to introduce it. That was fair enough. I do not think the Government and the Opposition are at loggerheads over that. I have never heard the Government say that those unions which do not have the collegiate system will, by the legislation it proposes, be permitted to have it. 
Where we differ is that under the Labor Party's platform and under the Labor Party's legislation those unions which had the collegiate system as at that date were to be given 3 years in which to bring their rules into line with the legislation. The legislation did not require unions which had the collegiate system as at that date to abolish the collegiate system in respect of all positions. The legislation makes it clear that unions that had the collegiate system then had the right to continue the collegiate system  ad infinitum  except that those federal positions within the union that were full time jobs and the holder of which was a member of the management committee of the organisation, had to go to the rank and file for election. But the election of all the other federal positions which were elected by the collegiate system as at that time- the positions of Federal President, Federal Vice-President, Federal Trustees and Federal Returning Officerand which were not full time positions could continue to be filled by the collegiate system of election. That is still in the legislation and that will continue. The unions do not have to alter their rules in respect of the part-time positions. It is only the full time positions of the Executive kind within a union that are subject to the alteration that has to be made by November. There is no doubt that the only unions of which I know that are pressing for the abolition of right of the rank and file to have a direct voice in the election of their full time federal positions are the Federated Clerks Unions of Australia, the Shop Assistants - 
-No. The Miscellaneous Workers Union has altered its rules. All the office holders, including the federal secretaryship, of the Miscellaneous Workers Union are subject to the will of the rank and file. It was a collegiate system but  Mr Gietzelt  altered his union's rules to comply with the provisions of the Labor Party's Act. So it is not true to say that that union is not controlled by its members. It is a funny thing that the extremes in the trade union movement- the extreme Right and the extreme Left- are the ones who are doing most about taking from the rank and file the right to elect their full time officers. I find it very hard to reconcile the conflicting views of anybody who is elected to Parliament, as honourable members opposite have been elected, on the promise of introducing or strengthening the principle of participatory democracy to give the rank and file the right to control their own union officials, and who then defends the collegiate system. 
I want to say only a few words. First of all, I believe that the whole question of the collegiate system has been mainly overlooked. It cannot possibly be said that there is a democratic system of control of unions when there is a little circle of friends- a cosy little club- which meet together as a council, which for the. purposes of modern day industrial jargon we call a college, and who under the rules of a union are permitted to elect from among their own number someone to be the  president,  the secretary and the vicepresident. It could mean that only those members of a union who are members of the college have the right to nominate for the position of federal  president,  secretary, vice-president, etc. 
This Bill has nothing to do with the collegiate system. I am pleased that the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  who led for the Opposition in this debate, nods in agreement with me. I am told there is to be a Bill introduced later on- I hope it never comes on- dealing with the collegiate system. I suggest now that I have explained the collegiate system that you,  Mr Chairman,  rule all further references to the matter completely out of order otherwise we will never finish the discussion on this Bill at all. That cuts out the honourable member for Denison from saying what he intended to say. 
-There is just one small matter that I want to mention - 
I support my friend, the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  in what he said. A point that he might very well have added is that not only is the Government proposing to permit intervention by the Minister in any case that might be before the Commission, but it is going to allow him, as of right, to be represented by counsel or by solicitors. 
-We were, in the national wage case. It has always been traditional that in national wage cases parties are permitted to be represented by counsel. State governments are represented by counsel and the Federal Government has always been represented by counsel, although I am bound to say that I believe that the Commonwealth might do a lot better if it were to have one or two of its very senior officers who are skilled in the art of advocacy and who are also knowledgeable in industrial matters to be the ones always to represent the Commonwealth in proceedings rather than having $600 or $700 a day Queen's Counsels appearing for it. But that is another question. It is not just that the Minister is to be given the right to intervene in cases that do not concern the Government as a party to the disputes, but that he is to be given the right to intervene with counsel and solicitors. 
I have had a lot of experience in industrial relations. Before I came into this Parliament I was a court advocate for some considerable time, and a very successful one if I may be permitted to say so without appearing self-effacing over it. I practised in every industrial jurisdiction in South Australia- the Commonwealth Public Service Arbitrator, the Wages Boards, the State Industrial Court and the Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration. My experience has always been that if you want to gum up proceedings in conciliation and arbitration, if you want to make an unholy mess of a dispute that is already messy enough, then employ some barrister or solicitor to come into the proceedings. Give him $500 or $600 a day and say to him: 'Right, there you are. Go for the lick of your life. Drag it out as long as you like, because you are going to get paid a handsome fee for as long as you do'. I remember the famous meatworkers' case in which one of the parties was represented by a barrister who decided that before he could possibly understand what the industry was all about he would have to spend nearly a year travelling all over Australia looking at the various slaughter houses. Then he got the brainwave that it would not be a bad idea to go into the butcher shops as well. When the brief looked like running out he decided that he would do the supermarkets also. So the thing was strung out for a year. 
-Lawyers solicitors and barristers. 
I agree with the honourable member; there are too many in Par.liament too. Solicitors and barristers ought to be banned from proceedings except by special leave. When there is some matter of special significance that may have some undertones of legal argument in it, aU right. But in ordinary proceedings- the kind of proceedings we are now talking about- to allow the Minister to intervene is bad enough, but to allow him to intervene by use of a solicitor or a barrister only compounds the felony. 
 I want to say something about the mechanics of the clause that we now have before us. The Government is telling the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission that it must take into account the effect of its decision upon the economy generally and upon inflation and the employment situation. Yet the Government steadfastly refuses to allow the Commission to examine the Treasury officials who prepare the Government's case on the effects of the unions' claims on the economy. When the Australian Council of Trade Unions sought to have Treasury officials put into the witness box to be cross-examined by the unions and to be questioned by members of the Bench on the accuracy of the statements that they were making in relation to the economy, the Bench felt that it was unable to accede to the request. It did not want to be put in the position of making a decision that would require a public servant, without the authority of his Minister, to go into the witness box and be examined. Since the national wage case submissions generally, insofar as they relate to economic matters, are prepared by Treasury and not by the Department of Labor, which knows most about the industrial relations aspect of arbitration proceedings, it is only proper that if the Government believes what the Treasury puts up to the Department of Labor in times of national wage hearings, then the Government ought to make the Treasury officials who put up the submissions to it go into the witness box, and be examined and tested by the Bench and by the parties appearing before the Commission. 
Time and again when I was Minister I had submissions prepared by the Treasury to be read out in the national wage case and, had I acceded to the Treasury request, I would have defeated the very submissions that I was putting from and industrial relations point of view. I was asking that the minimum wage for adult males be extended to adult females; I was asking that wage indexation on the minimum wage be introduced and later on the average weekly earnings; I was asking for an increase in the minimum wage; and Treasury was opposing the concept of extending the adult male minimum wage to adult females. It opposed the concept of wage indexation even upon the minimum wage and opposed it also in respect of average weekly earnings. 
But the Treasury officials apparently were not prepared to go into the witness box and have their theories tested by the Bench and by the people appearing before the Commission. So I made no bones about the matter. I rejected out of hand some of the submissions that were sent to my Department by the Treasury people to be put to the Arbitration Commission. I remember on one occasion, talking with the counsel appearing for me and asking: 'How are you going?' He said: 'We are still held up'. I asked: 'Why are you held up?' He said: 'Well, the Treasury does not like so and so.' I said: 'To hell with the Treasury; you are representing me, not the Treasury. What is the argument? I will adjudicate on it at once. Tell me all about it. ' He told me and I fixed it up in about a minute. I said: 'Tell the Treasurer s representative that this thing has now been settled and that the Minister intervening in the case has decided so and so.' 
The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  ought to take the same view. He ought to tell Treasury: 'We will be glad to have your point of view but I am going to have your viewpoint tested by my own economists and by the people in my own Department because my Department is all about labour relations. We are not here to act as the arm of economic management of government. We are here to prevent industrial disputes and to settle them when they occur.' I want the Minister to reply to me on this matter. I ask him to give an assurance to honourable members that in future when the Treasury imposes its nonsense- economic nonsense as well as industrial relations nonsense- upon the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations the Minister will say to the Treasury: 'If you want me to put this forward you must go into the witness box and be examined on it.' If the Treasury officials are not prepared to be examined and tested on the economic theories they put forward in industrial relations proceedings we ought not to allow those submissions by Treasury even to see the light of day. 
The plain fact of the matter is that the Treasury knows absolutely nothing about industrial relations. The Foreign Affairs Department would know more about industrial relations than Treasury knows, and I could not find more telling example of airy-fairy thinking than to quote the Foreign Affairs Department in relation to everyday life. I say to the Minister that this matter upon which we have stumbled is important. If he is going to insist that the Arbitration Commission pay regard to the economic consequences of its decisions, he ought to be prepared to instruct his economic advisers to go into the witness box and allow their theories to be tested by the Bench and by the parties appearing before it. 
I want to refute the statement made by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  I know how things operate. There is no difference in a relationship between Treasury and the present Government and the relationship that existed between Treasury and the former Government or governments. Always in national wage cases the Treasury has told the government of the day what it believes the government ought to say in proceedings before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The fact that the present Government has not enough faith in the present Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations to allow him to make a judgment on what is right and wrong- although the previous Government had such implicit faith in me, on the other hand, as to allow me personally to decide what ought to be done in industrial relations- does not affect the assertions that I made earlier, namely, that all of the Liberal Government submissions have always been duplicates of the ones received from the Department of the Treasury. In fact, my own departmental officer said: 'We do not understand what you are doing, Minister. This has never been done before. We have never had a Minister challenge submissions put by Treasury'. I said: 'You have got one now. You are under new management. From now on when you are talking about industrial relations you are going to give prime consideration to questions of industrial relations and not be bothered about the nonsense- the utter nonsense- that Treasury throws at you. You are dealing with a Minister who puts industrial relations ahead of economic factors, a Minister who believes that it is more important to settle or prevent industrial disputes than to be worrying about the airy-fairy ideas of the economists working in Treasury who are no different from any other economists.' If 100 economists are asked to give a solution to some problem there will usually be 100 different solutions. 
Progress reported. 
Sitting suspended from 5.59 to 8 p.m. 
I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  for providing copies of the consolidated Conciliation and Arbitration Act for the benefit of honourable members in a debate such as this. It is absolutely essential that an Act such as the Conciliation and Arbitration Act be consolidated, because otherwise it is virtually impossible for a person to understand what is provided in the existing law. I make the comment that the Minister would be well advised to consider arranging for the Act to be consolidated, if possible, by feeding the provisions of the Act into a data bank for computerised printing of consolidations to include all future amendments. That can be done technically quite easily. The Conciliation and Arbitration Act is among the 5 Acts of this Parliament which are most used in the community and which ought to be the easiest of all to follow. 
The Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill 1976 does 3 main things: It introduces the principle that union elections shall be held by secret postal voting; that legal representation shall be given to the Minister by right in all proceedings in which the Minister is involved; and that the Minister shall have the right of reference and the right of appeal against all matters coming before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, even matters in which the Minister or the Government is not a party. 
I realise that. The reason the Government has inserted that provision, if I may say so, is that it was well aware of the High Court decision in the case of Whybrow and Co. in 1910 when it was held that persons or organisations not parties to a particular dispute have no right of audience at all. The Government seeks to overcome that finding of the High Court by wording the Act in such a way that there is no right inherent in the Act but there is a right of application in the Act. The Government has tried to overcome the decision in the Whybrow case by giving the Commission power to grant leave to a person who is not a party in a dispute to be heard in proceedings relating to that dispute. I believe that the very first time the Commission grants the Minister leave to intervene the Australian Council of Trade Unions might very well lodge an action in the High Court to challenge the validity of the Commission so acting. So the Government is escaping a legal challenge on the grounds that the Parliament will be doing something invalid, and it is seeking to obtain the same invalid act by allowing the Commission to do that which the High Court will not allow the Parliament to do by legislation. It is no use wasting any further time on this because I can see that the Minister is going to interject again; only the High Court will determine it in the final analysis. 
I agree that the Minister ought to be given the right of appeal in the Flight Crew Officers Industrial Tribunal, but that is an entirely different matter from having a right to intervene in proceedings in which the Minister is not a party, because the Australian Government is almost invariably a party to proceedings before the Flight Officers Tribunal. That is the Tribunal that deals with Qantas Airways Ltd and TransAustralia Airlines. So the Minister's right to appeal the decisions of the Tribunal should be the same as in every other case that comes before the Commission in which the Government is a party. But the Minister's right to appeal against consent awards and industrial agreements is something that our side of the Parliament will strongly oppose and will always oppose. 
I invite the Minister to consider the consequences of the Government's proposal. Remembering that the Conciliation and Arbitration Act is an Act designed to carry out that placitum of the Constitution that gives Parliament the power to make laws in respect of the prevention and settlement of industrial disputes extending beyond the borders of one State- that the prime objective of the Act is the prevention and settlement of industrial disputes- the Government is now writing into the Act a provision that is actually going to cause industrial disputation. What happens when there is a consent award or industrial agreement is this. The parties to the dispute meet and confer, sometimes at the instigation of the Commission. They then reach an agreement and the strike is settled or is prevented if it is a pending dispute. An agreement is sometimes made in the terms of the settlement arrangements. Sometimes, if the matter is covered by an award and it may be thought more appropriate to proceed by way of an award variation, the award is varied by consent as a means of settling the dispute. That dispute would not have been settled except for the agreement or the consent award. Yet, the Government thinks it will achieve something by giving the Minister the right to seek leave to intervene or to appeal decisions that were taken in order to prevent or settle a dispute. 
It is obvious, surely, that if the Government does that the dispute that was originally settled by the agreement or the consent award will flare up again and it will force the employers to suffer another long drawn out strike or it will force unions to stay away from the Commission. There is no obligation upon unions to go to the Commission to get their industrial agreements certified. There is no obligation for unions to go to the Commission for a variation of the award by consent. They will simply demand, and get, overaward payments by way of unregistered agreements. Most of the unions have enough industrial muscle to enforce their agreements without the benefits of certification or ratification by the Commission. All that the Government will succeed in doing is to force the unions outside the ambit of the Arbitration Commission's purview and weaken the status of the Commission. We do not want that. We ought to be thinking of ways to strengthen the position, standing, status and prestige of the Commission, not doing things that will have the effect of reducing its status and authority. 
Last week we had handed down to us the decision of the Arbitration Commission in favour of plateau indexation. It would seem to me that the logical thing for the Arbitration Commission to do- it is something which the Government ought to be asking it to do- is to provide that the plateau indexation that has been adopted by the Commission be now applied quarterly and automatically in accordance with the full effects of the consumer price index including its reflection of indirect taxation. Whether there is an increase or a reduction in indirect taxation, it will be reflected in the consumer price index. I fear that the Government is contemplating a very big increase in indirect taxation in the next Budget, otherwise it would not be so hell bent on preparing the ground now for removing the effect of indirect taxation from the CPI. The Government ought to be supporting what we are now putting forward if it is proposing to reduce indirect taxes. 
The Government will remember that on the occasion of Medibank being introduced as a non-contributing benefit, there was a very sharp reduction in the CPI for that particular quarter. 
-Nearly 3 per cent. The 0.8 per cent left over was insufficient to justify, according to the Commission, an increase in wage indexation for that quarter. Let me add in passing that I think that was a wrong decision. It does not matter by what amount the CPI increases; the increase, whether large or small, should be reflected in the increased wage flowing from the application of wage indexation. Unless indexation is made automatic on a quarterly basis we will not get the full benefits of wage indexation. The full potential of wage indexation as a means of preventing and settling industrial disputes is going to be castrated, if I can use an odd term, by the effects of not having automatic adjustment. I believe that the portion of the total wage which is subjected to indexation- that is, the amount that represents the average award rate for adult males- ought not to be affected again as a result of price movements. There ought not to be double counting in respect of that portion of the total wage that has already benefited by quarterly adjustments as a result of wage indexation. The Australian Council of Trade Unions has never asked that the portion of the total wage that is affected by wage indexation should be increased as a consequence of any price movement. Indeed, it has made its position perfectly clear- that it would do everything within its power to prevent double counting in respect of that portion of the wage that is affected by wage indexation. But the portion of the total wage that is not affected by wage indexationthat is, the portion above average award rates, ought to be open to negotiation according to work value, changed circumstances or any other factors that are relevant in the settlement of an industrial dispute. I believe for that reason that the guidelines ought to be relaxed so that unions can negotiate settlements over and above the average award rates where there is a case for the correction of an anomaly based upon any such grounds, and the Minister ought to face up to the fact that this is something that has to be done. 
I have never disputed the fact that the Government and the Minister should have the right to appear before national wage cases in the public interest on matters like the minimum wage for females, standard hours, annual leave, the amount of productivity increase that ought to be awarded in national wage cases and wage indexation, to mention the main items of interest because in all of these cases the Government can claim that as the biggest employer in Australia, employing more than 300 000 people, the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations as the portfolio is now called, does have a direct interest in the same way as any other employer. He ought to be heard and the Arbitration Commission ought not lightly to pass away from submissions made by the government of the day. But at the same time the Commission ought to reject utterly and out of hand any attempt by the Minister of the day, speaking on behalf of the government, to ask the Commission to act as the arm of economic management. How on earth can an organisation or a body that relies upon a constitution that places the emphasis on its role of prevention and settlement of industrial disputes be expected to manage the economy when it has control over only one single factor that goes to the control of inflation and the other things that economists seek to control? How could we expect the Arbitration Commission, with no power to control profits, no power to control interest rates, no power over fiscal policy, no power over monetary policy, to be able to act as the manager of the economy? It cannot be done. 
In every case in which I appeared in 1973, 1974 and 1975, 1 instructed counsel representing me to make the position abundantly clear, to the Commission, that the Government did not expect the Commission to act as the manager of the country's economy. We, as a government, told the Commission that its job was to settle and to prevent industrial disputes and it was the job of the Government to manage the economy. I am well aware of the fact that whatever decision is taken by the Commission does have some effect on the economy. But no one has yet been able to point to a single instance where the Arbitration Commission has taken a decision that could be said to be the prime cause of any economic problems for the government of the day. It has never happened. The Commission acts with a great deal of responsibility. 
I think one of the most sensible things that has ever been done by a government occurred when I was Minister for Labour and decided to appoint Professor Isaacs to the Arbitration Commission. It is true that as well as the settling of industrial disputes, the economic factor of the decisions of the Arbitration Commission has some relevance. It is no use expecting people who are learned only in the law to be able to understand all of the economic factors. It was for this reason that I appointed Professor Isaacs as a deputy president of the Commission. Before any other appointments are made I suggest to the Minister that he look around for somebody else like Professor Isaacs, who has a very good working knowledge of industrial relations as well as of economics. Better still, the Minister should try to get a person who is qualified as a labour economist. There are not many labour economists in Australia, but we ought to have a labour economist on the Commission because things are moving so rapidly now that if we stick to outmoded principles we shall never be able to get answers to the sensitive and very complex questions that have to be resolved in' the industrial relations field. 
The Government has not got the power to enforce that part of the amending Bill which seeks to require the Commission to have regard not only to the general economic consequences of its decisions, but also to the effect of its decisions on employment and inflation. How can the Government enforce this? It cannot get an order for mandamus against the Commission from the High Court to do so that section of the Act, because to carry it out the court would need to be able to exercise arbitral powers. The Boilermakers case has made it clear that any body exercising purely judicial powers has no authority to exercise arbitral powers as well. Yet the question of whether a decision is adversely affecting the economy or is likely to affect inflation or unemployment is essentially one for arbitral decision; it is not a judicial matter. People trained or even learned in the law are not able to make decisions on matters affecting unemployment and inflation. These are economic questions. All that the Commission has to do in order to comply with the section of the Act that is now proposed, is simply to begin each decision with the preamble: 'We have had full regard to the economic consequences of the decision that we are about to announce. We have taken into account the effects of the decision on unemployment and inflation and accordingly we have decided to increase all wages by $500 a week and to reduce the standard hours to 20 hours a week'. If the Commission were to do that, there is nothing at all that anybody could do about it. To whom could the Government appeal? It could not appeal to the High Court, because the High Court is not competent and, by its own decision in the boilermakers case the High  Court would  not be permitted to adjudicate on whether the decision to increase wages by $500 a week and to reduce the standard hours to 20 hours a week was in fact, and in law, a matter that contravened the Act. 
I believe that there is a lot to be said for the case put forward by my colleague the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  the Opposition spokesman on industrial relations. He said that we should not be asking the Arbitration Commission to stop employers from negotiating awards outside the guidelines; we should allow employers to give whatever they like providing they are not permitted to pass on the increases to the general public by way of price increases. Therefore the answer to this problem is not in placing these obligations upon the Commission but in strengthening the power of the Prices Justification Tribunal so that it can say to employers who flout the guidelines: 'Look, you have flouted the guidelines. You carry the burden of the increase yourself. 
Now that the Committee is debating this clause of the Bill, I think it is proper that I should refer briefly to something that was said earlier in the debate in relation to a clause that had nothing whatever to do with the remarks made by the  speaker  in question. The honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  talking of the unions, asked: 'Why should they not have the right to determine whether they want the collegiate system?' I ask the honourable gentleman: What does he mean by 'they'? Is he saying that the union officials should have the right to have a collegiate system if they- the union officials- want it or does he mean that the members of the union should have the right if they- the members- want to have the collegiate system? If it is the latter, I have no quarrel with him. If he is going to support a proposal in relation to which the real union that is, the members of the union, the people, the bodies that make up the union itself- are to be given the right to determine whether they want it then that is fanenough. But I suspect that the honourable gentleman means, when he says 'They should be able to determine what they want',  Mr Maynes  and the other people of the National Civic Council who have been so actively campaigning to have wiped out the right of the rank and file to determine what they want? The honourable member for Denison is really meaning  Mr John  Maynes,  Mr Maher  and their ilk; that is what he really means. 
I want to reply to the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  He talked about the confusion that can be caused by having elections for federal officers at a different time and in a different way from that which might be used by the State organisation. I think what he was talking about was what purports to be, and no more than purports to be in many cases, the State branch of a federal union which has State registration in a particular State of the four States in which registration is possible. He spoke as though there was no problem now and that this legislation would create a problem where there was now no problem. He is very, very wrong in that belief. It will be surprising to me if the Minister is able to solve this problem. Until there is complementary legislation by the State governments- the New South Wales Government has now decided that it will pass the necessary complementary legislation to the Bill we passed in 1 974 to give effect to the Moore and Doyle case- the Government will not ever solve the problem that the honourable member for Lilley talked about. 
Let me take the case of the Australian Workers Union which I know so well. In the case of Queensland the State from which the honourable gentleman comes, the State union known as the Australian Workers Union Industrial Union of Employees (Queensland), or by a name similar to that, is registered as a State organisation and, except for about 4 or 5 awards, all its awards are State awards. The horse training award and a couple of other odd awards are Federal awards; but all the other awards are State awards including the pastoral award, the cane cutters' and the road construction award which are capable of being covered by the Australian Workers Union Federal registration but which, in point of fact, have never moved into the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
The true position is this: If the State awards that now operate in Queensland are properly based it is only because the members of the Queensland State registered union are properly members of the State union and not members of the Federal union; because  Moore  v.  Doyle  showed it is not possible legally by joining one union automatically to acquire membership in another separate legal entity with its own legal personality. That case showed that once a union registers in a State it has to acquire its own legal personality and separate entity- it has to have its own membership, its own offices, its own set of books and its own set of rules. Nothing that is done here beyond what we did in 1974 will cure the situation that I am now talking about. 
There are literally tens of thousands of members of the State union in Queensland who are now participating in Federal union elections and who have no right to vote at all. The fact that those union members are in occupations which are capable of being covered by the Federal union - 
The regulations may make provision for and in relation to the conduct of an election in accordance with the requirements of this section in the case of an election in respect of which the rules of the organization do not provide for a secret postal ballot. 
The point that I query is the honourable member for Hindmarsh 's comments in relation to State and Federal unions and members being members either of one union or of another. I must confess that I was giving consideration as to whether the honourable member for Hindmarsh was in order in speaking on this way in this particular clause. But I should hesitate to be dogmatic on the question of whether the membership of either a State or Federal organisation might not have some effect on the rules of an organisation which do or which do not provide for a secret postal ballot. I was in the process of coming to a conclusion and a decision on that matter when the honourable member for Hotham raised his point of order. The remarks of the honourable member for Hindmarsh earlier reminded me of the song sung by Mary Poppins entitled  A Spoonful of Sugar Makes The Medicine Go Down.  I only hope that the honourable member for Hindmarsh maintains his high opinion of me when at this stage I make the comment that perhaps he has stretched the bow a little bit in relation to this part of the Committee 's consideration. 

 -Mr Chairman, you have taken so long to tell me that I am possibly stretching the bow a little that you have put me right off what I was thinking about. I was on a very good wavelength. You have put me right off it. I am afraid that the gems of wisdom that were about to fall from me at the time I was so rudely interrupted will now have to wait another day. Thank you very much, nonetheless, for your tolerence. I repeat that this debate is really a firstclass example of Parliament at its very best. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Commonwealth of Australia purchase the law library of  Mr John  Kerr, Q.C., as he then was, before or after his appointment as a Federal Judge. 
) If so, (a) what are the particulars of the purchase, (b) where is the library now and (c) where has it been located from time to time since it was purchased. 

 -Mr Speaker, it gives me a great deal of pleasure to be able to associate myself with your remarks and those of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  the Acting Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  and the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  in respect of  Mr Bridgman.  As the honourable member for Mackellar has pointed out, he and I are the longest serving members in the chamber this afternoon. 
-No, it is not, but I am going to say something about your remarks. This is the second time that I have heard the Leader of the Opposition confess that somebody else has cut his lunch, the second time that he has said he had turned his eyes towards some vivacious girl with whom he attended school but whose attentions and affections drifted towards an officer of the Parliament instead of to himself. In this regard he shares something in common with the Prime Minister who, according to the  National Times  the week before last, was also twice rejected by a member of the fairer sex. This brings me to the most important achievement to which I think  Mr Bridgman  can lay claim- the introduction of women into the parliamentary reporting staff. I tried very hard to persuade  Mr Campbell,  who was the Principal Parliamentary Reporter when the honourable member for Mackellar and I first came to the Parliament, to do exactly that but he said that he just could not do it; it was not the place for women. As well, there were difficulties about ladies' toilets which apparently presented some enormous problem that made it impossible to employ women in this job. 
Women have introduced into this Parliament an element of refinement which we needed badly. They are an adornment to the place. It seems that we have not got into the habit of allowing women to be elected to the Parliament as members but it is very nice indeed that we do have women taking the shorthand. If I may say so, from my own experience, the records of what I say in the Parliament are usually fairly faithfully recorded in  Hansard.  There does not seem to be much alteration to them, or alteration does not appear to be as necessary in my case as the Prime Minister has found in his own. I have compared the reporting of the lady reporters with the reporting of men- I have made a note of this because it has been my aim in life to overcome the discrimination against women which has been characteristic of the human race down through the centuries- and I am bound to say that the women reporters in this House are on the whole better than the men. I was one who at a very early age recognised the value of women. I was not even able to sit up, speak or see. I have never ceased to recognise their great value. 
-The honourable member ought to refrain from interjecting because there is something written on the bottom of my notes about you to which I might have to refer. I was the first Minister to appoint women to the Federal judiciary; the first Minister to appoint a woman as an arbitration commissioner I appointed two of them- and the first to insist upon the appointment of a female first assistant secretary. 
If I may refer again to the  National Times  of the past weekend, I think it is nonsense to suggest that  Sir Arthur  Tange could tell the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  when he was the Minister for Defence, that the Minister could not talk to his officers or that they could not talk to him. The Minister, of course, is in charge of his Department, as I made certain to emphasise when the appointment of first assistant secretaries came up in the Department of Labor and Immigration. I was the first Minister to insist upon the appointment of a woman to the executive of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. So I have something in common with  Mr Bridgman  in my love for women. 

 Mr Bridgman has always been courteous and absolutely correct in his behaviour towards members. He has never attempted to show favouritism to one side or the other or to one member or another. He was, I think, in very essence a perfect public servant and a perfect servant of the Parliament. I think,  Mr Speaker,  his example is one which you could very well emulate. I conclude my few remarks by offering my good wishes to  Mr Bridgman.  I wish him a long and very happy retirement. I am sorry that he is not writing his memoirs because he could have perhaps swapped them with mine to see how they compared. It is a pity that men like  Mr Bridgman,  who know so much of the unwritten history of the nation, do not write it. They ought to, and I still hope that he will yet change his mind. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. By way of preface I refer to the Minister's Press statement of 6 August this year in which he released the Commonwealth Employment Service statistics for July of this year and wherein he alleged that the labour market 'appears to have weakened' and that there had been 'an apparent deterioration in the demand for labour'. I ask the Minister: Is it a fact that in original terms unemployment rose by more than 5000 persons and, in seasonally adjusted terms, by 6.2 per cent? Is it also a fact that in original terms unfilled vacancies fell slightly but when seasonally adjusted there was a small rise? Since over the past 20 years the normal pattern during July has been for a fall in registered unemployed and a rise in unfilled vacancies, will the Minister agree that the deterioration is not 'apparent' as he claims, but is real, and will he desist from misleading presentation of unemployment figures? 
There is no doubt in the mind of anybody who cares to think about the Medibank strike that it was as much an industrial strike as it was a political strike. For that reason I say quite categorically that I am fully in support of the action of the unions. 
The Medibank strike was the most magnificent example of working class solidarity since the maritime strike of 1890. The Australian Council of Trade Unions Executive support for the strike was unanimous. Leaders, such as Edgar Williams, who had traditionally opposed use of the strike weapon throughout their industrial careers, responded quite magnificently to this call. The behaviour of the Executive Council of the AWU was impeccable. It sent instructions to every branch to direct branch officers to direct their members to cease work on the day of the Medibank strike. It was the first time since the great maritime strike that the Australian Workers Union leadership had thrown its weight behind a national strike. It was not the number of members who defied the ACTU call, but the number who loyally answered the call that made the Medibank strike the most significant industrial development in this country. The strike forced everybody to think about the mechanics of a national strike. 
The last mentioned aspect- to make workers think about the mechanics of a national strike- is the one that will do most to change the course of history; because the strike showed up the strengths and the weaknesses of what was done in respect of the Medibank strike. One weakness was the breakdown of communication between the leadership of some unions and their rank and file. Some of those who worked now say that they would not have done so if they had been fully informed of the issue. They feel pretty ashamed of themselves now because of the way they scabbed on their mates during the Medibank strike. 
Another great weakness was the action of some union officials in allowing the membership to defy the ACTU call-out, by having meetings of the rank and file to decide whether the rank and file would respond to a national call-out by the ACTU 
I believe in participatory democracy in trade union affairs. I believe in giving the rank and file the right to ratify an industrial agreement, which sells their labour, before it is signed by a union official. I believe in the right of the rank and file to have a direct vote in the election of their executive officers. What is more, I was successful in piloting through the House of Representatives Bills which gave legislative force to all these basic principles of union democracy. 
I distinguish between an ordinary industrial issue relating to wages or working conditions and a peak call for united action at a national level to remedy an industrial grievance caused by the political action of professional politicians. 
Very shortly there will be one of the biggest news breaks of the year when the Department of Foreign Affairs leaks to the Press contacts which it apparently has that  Dr Henry  Kissinger has already made an official request to this Government to ban the export of uranium to Iran. What will this Government do? What does it propose to do if the unions decide that they will ban the export of uranium to all countries? Will the Government say: *No. We will send it to all countries except Iran because  Dr Henry  Kissinger has asked us to take that action'? 
When the ballot box has proved to be a futility, as it did late in 1975, and when a political party seizes power by violating conventions and by lies and misrepresentation, and when it arrogantly and blatantly breaks its elections promises, which is what the Liberal and Country parties did in respect of Medibank, the majority of the Australian people, particularly the working class people in Australia, have every right to use the methods of passive resistance to manifest their anger and indignation at what has been done. The same action would be justified if organised labour found it necessary to paralyse industry in order to crush an uprising of the armed forces or an attempt by any other group to overthrow the Constitution by unlawful means. If such a thing should happen, labour would be engaged in the kind of emergency that would not permit the delay and possible dissension that could come from calling meetings of the rank and file. The officer-class of the trade union movement would have to give the orders, and the rank and file would have to obey them. 
It is a measure of the hypocrisy of the opponents of labour who have so much to say about rank and file control that they are the ones who are now advocating the collegiate system for union elections which will deny to the rank and file a direct vote in the election of their full time officials. 
Would these people suggest that before a military commander could give an order to attack, he would first be required to conduct a secret ballot of his rank and file? Does anyone believe that Lord Montgomery would have been able to win the battle of El Alamein if he had been first forced to conduct a ballot of those who were required to go over the top and risk their lives in a frontal attack on Rommel's tanks? Labour must have the same kind of discipline if it is to save this country from the abuses of conservative politicians and their reactionary masters. I want to refer to Don Dunstan 's Chifley Memorial Lecture in which he said: 
The forces of reaction have severely damaged the spirit of our democratic system- they have shown themselves to be totally unscrupulous, untruthful and unethical in their determination to impede the movement for reform in Australia. 
I am by no means convinced that those forces would have accepted an Australian Labor Party victory at the last election. I am not prepared to reject the reports that this militant minority was actually planning to ask the CommanderinChief of the Armed Forces to take control of the Government by force if necessary. The New Guard is not dead in this country. 
What happened in Chile and in Greece can happen here. No one is now so naive as to believe that the Central Intelligence Agency is not operating in this country. We know that it is. Once we reach the stage at which people lose respect for the Conventions that govern the relationship between the governed and those who govern we can say we are already on the high road to tearing up the Constitution  en route  to anarchy. In the event of a military coup in this country our only salvation would lie in the boundless power of labour unity. 
Organised labour is more powerful than the apparatus of any state; but I repeat that labour must be organised, and it is not possible to do this other than through the trade union movement. Trade union leaders not only have a national obligation to protect their country from an attempted military coup but also have a class obligation to do so. They should make contingency plans now to thwart any such move by preparing for the use of planned industrial action. They should learn from the lessons of history that when expediency demands it the ruling classes will not worry about traditions, conventions or laws. These all can be changed. Those in the militant and privileged minority will not even worry about defending the Constitution once they find that it does not mean what they want it to mean. In order to ensure that it is always interpreted as having the meaning that suits their vested or sectional interests, they will see that appointments to the High Court of Australia are always carefully vetted. Only those who are wedded to the establishment and to the  status quo  will be allowed to be appointed. 
If the unlawful seizure of power is to be prevented, we must look to the trade union movement. Given that there is a devolution of the unity displayed by our union leaders in the Medibank strike, the power of organised labour indeed will be boundless. The trade union movement has a bounden duty to work out in advance the steps that it must take to defend the Constitution. 
In the event of an armed uprising or in the event of a group unlawfully seizing power or seeking to retain power, the trade union movement must be prepared to act instantly to stop the rebels in their tracks. The first step would be to restrict the generation of power to essential services and to cut it off altogether if the mutineers sought to use that power for purposes to assist the revolution. All transport would have to be halted, the wharves closed and all forms of communication denied to the insurgents. But, to succeed in an operation of this kind, trade unionists must distinguish between the ordinary employer and employee disputes affecting only a few unions at most and those issues that are national in character. In the latter case, it becomes a central requirement to success that those in the officer class give the orders and those in the rank and file loyally abide by those orders. There is no place for scabs in a situation of national crisis. 
It suits the interests of foreign-owned multinational corporations to keep our working people divided into 303 separate organisations. It will be recalled that my Bill to make easier trade union amalgamation possible was rejected by the claqueurs of the ruling classes in this country. 
The reason for the unity and strength of the West German trade union movement lies in the fact that there is a total of only 16 unions in a population of more than 60 million. One of those unions has more members than all of the 303 unions in Australia put together. A reason for the great strength of the trade union movement in Sweden is that the unions are bound together by the powerful LO Federation, which has the necessary clout to make binding decisions for all its affiliates. 
That is what we need in this country- an ACTU that can speak with one voice for all its affiliates whenever a national issue such as Medibank arises. It will not come overnight, but it will come as surely as night follows day. The ACTU will generate the power to speak with one voice and to speak for all the unions that are affiliated with it. I am not proposing that the ACTU be given power to interfere with an affiliate's domestic affairs; but on national issues it should have the same power as union federations in some other democracies have. There is an urgent need to strengthen the authority of the peak organisations. Ideally, the ACTU and the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations should be amalgamated into one organisation; but, in any event, they should develop more authority than they now possess. 
The Medibank issue proved that at the leadership level the ACTU and ACSPA were way out in front of some sections of the membership, whilst the National Civic Council leadership was not even prepared to lead from behind. The 2.5 per cent Medibank levy was an effective reduction in real wages, and no one can deny it. It was an industrial grievance brought about by the political action of the Fraser Government. The strike was political only in the sense that industrial action finally was deemed to be the only way by which the political cause of the grievance could be rectified. In spite of the media's attempt to maximise the opposition to the strike and to minimise the support for the strike, the exercise was remarkably successful. Supporters of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  lost ten times more than those who answered the ACTU call. It is not the kind of futility that they will want repeated. 
Union strategists now say that in the next national strike there should be a demand that the employers be required to pay for the time lost, with the sanction of no resumption against employers who do not meet the demand. In order to sustain employees - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-On 28 August 1974, 1 gave an address to the National Press Club in Canberra. That speech proved to be rather more prophetic than I expected. I said then: 
The action of the Senate in cutting off the supply of money to the Government earlier in the year established a dangerous precedent that will invite future Opposition majorities in the Senate to strike down the elected Government at any time they choose. Properly elected governments planning a 3-year program will in future always be confronted with the knowledge that when an unpopular but proper measure is just beginning to produce the desired results, the Opposition could suddenly attempt to cash in on temporary public hostility to grab the reins of Government The behaviour of the present Opposition Parties proves beyond doubt that they have no respect for the institution of Parliament or of the right of the people who elected the Government 
In August 1975, just one year later, the Opposition Parties were doing the very thing again that I in that address complained of and warned about. They not only had increased their obstruction of vital Government legislation in the Senate but also were actually planning their tactics then to refuse supply for the second time in 18 months. This time they had the active support of the Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia, a man who had been an Attorney-General in a Liberal Government. 
To act in the manner he chose,  Sir Garfield  Barwick had to ditch the convention that the Chief Justice of the High Court must not give secret advice to the Governor-General on a matter calling for an interpretation of the Constitution which could involve political partisanship. Commenting on  Sir Garfield's  action, Premier Don Dunstan in his very excellent Chifley Memorial Lecture in July this year said: 
The advice which  Sir John  Kerr sought from the Chief Justice should never have been tendered because it was political in content and purpose. It went completely against the judicial convention that the Australian High Court has no advisory role, and certainly no single justice of the Court should tender advice on a matter which may come before the Court. But  Sir Garfield  did and his advice was contrary to that of the principal law officers of the Crown, but  Sir John  accepted  Sir Garfield's  version which quite dogmatically asserted the proposition that a government in order to govern must have the confidence and support of both Houses in a Westminster system. Again he draws a distinction from Westminster which is quite specious, that the House of Lords is appointed and the Senate elected. 

 Mr Dunstan concluded: 
Presumably his advice would then apply to the South Australian Parliament but not to that of New South Wales. 
Although  Sir Garfield's  opinion is based upon the premise that a government without supply must resign, he is reported in the Press as having told pressmen after his recent performance at the National Press Club in Canberra that if he had been Governor-General he would have sacked the Labor Government in September last year. That was a month before the Senate decided to defer the passage of the Supply Bill. It was an extraordinary statement to say the very least and one which will bear considerable examination. 

 Sir Garfield's statement may be pregnant with meaning because it so happens that it was in September, the month in which  Sir Garfield  said he would have sacked the then Prime Minister, that Opposition spokesmen began publicly calling for an election. In fact the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is reported in the  Age  of 1 3 September last year as saying what should happen if supply was cut off by a house of parliament with constitutional power to do so. The test is power; that is all. The test is not whether it is right, but whether they have the power to do something wrong; and, if they have the power to do something wrong, then why not do it if it helps them in their immediate aims? The then Leader of the Opposition said that the Prime Minister would have the bounden duty to seek an election. 
Then, I think we have to concede, with an exceptional insight into the thoughts of the Chief Justice, he said that if the then Prime Minister did not seek an election 'it could establish the circumstances where the Governor-General under section 61 of the Constitution would feel impelled to withdraw the Prime Minister's commission'. I had good reason to know that he was citing the wrong section. It was section 64, not section 61. The powers of this section are indeed very wide. In my case it enabled the GovernorGeneral to dispense with the principles of natural justice and to dismiss me without a reason and without giving me an opportunity to be heard. Is it not an extraordinary coincidence that, while  Sir Garfield  Barwick was walking around the High Court wishing that he had the power to sack the then Prime Minister in September last, the present Prime Minister had already worked out the precise legal formula which the Governor-General and the Chief Justice were to endorse exactly 8 weeks later? 
It will be noted that the present Prime Minister's simple justification for what was done was that the Governor-General had the power to dismiss the Prime Minister. He was not concerned with whether the exercise of the power was proper. In substance, the Chief Justice had told the Governor-General that he had the power to trample on yet another convention and, having that power, he should use it. The convention that the Queen or her representative shall act according to the advice of her Ministers was - 
-The convention that the Queen or her representative shall act according to the advice of her Ministers was a convention that had been observed strictly by the Sovereign for well over a century in all countries in which the Westminster system operated. There is, however, one difference between the Australian Constitution and the United Kingdom convention. In the United Kingdom the Queen is bound by the advice of her Prime Minister; but in Australia the Governor-General is bound only by the advice of the Federal Executive Council. 
The Australian Prime Minister has no special powers under the Constitution. He is not even recognised under the Constitution. He is just another Minister. It is the Executive Council, not the Prime Minister, that in Australia has the power to advise the Governor-General. The Prime Minister has no authority to give advice to the Governor-General unless that advice has been endorsed by a meeting of the Executive Council. That meeting may consist of only 2 Ministers, although on matters relating to policy, certain appointments, certain important transactions and decisions and the dismissal of Ministers the Governor-General, in my view, should always insist that the advice be tendered by a meeting of the Executive Council fully summoned and not by one or two of his Ministers. 
In the case of the dissolution of the retiring half of the Senate the Prime Minister had been authorised by a meeting of the Cabinet, fully summoned, and the Caucus of the ruling Party had authorised him to advise the GovernorGeneral to call an election for the retiring half of the Senate. But in any event the question of whether or not the Governor-General should disregard the Prime Minister's advice was determined not solely by propriety but by the Chief Justice asking whether the Governor-General had the power, firstly, to reject the advice of his chief Minister; secondly, to remove him from office; thirdly, to commission the minority leader in the Parliament to form a new government; fourthly, to dissolve the House of Representatives because of the Senate 's failure to grant Supply; and fifthly, then to dissolve the Senate itself for twice rejecting 2 1 Bills passed by the House of Representatives. So I agree with what has been said about the need to circumscribe the powers of the Governor-General. The events of 1 1 November last year did more damage and more to damage the institution of Parliament, and did more to destroy the social system under which we live than anything that can ever be done by demonstrators or anything that demonstrators have ever done. 
The Press will deplore the threat which demonstrations constitute to the present system. I invite honourable members to look at the leading article in the  Advertiser  about a week ago. But the Press deliberately ignores the fact that the system already has suffered almost irreparable damage at the hands of those who constitute the ruling class and those who serve the ruling class- the Governor-General, the Chief Justice, the Liberal Party, the National Country Party and the Press. Those are the elements really responsible for the violence done to our conventions that prop up the Constitution. It is not only the Governor-General whose powers need to be circumscribed. The powers of the Prime Minister also are far too wide. In between elections in Australia we find that there is in some respects very little difference from Stalin's Russia or Hitler's Germany 
The Prime Minister cannot send his opponents to the gas ovens or to the salt mines in Siberia but for most intents and purposes an Australian Prime Minister can be just as much a dictator as were Franco, Hitler and Stalin. Australians will not tolerate one-man government in their country. Don Dunstan and Neville Wran proved that parliamentary democracy works better by consensus than by one-man dictatorship. Dunstan and Wran have never found it necessary to abuse their power by manipulation of their prime ministerial prerogatives or by their manipulation of Cabinet agendas. Neither has seen the need to form secret caves or to aid the media in undermining the position of a Cabinet colleague. Both understand that the elementary rule of party politics is that loyalty begets loyalty and that respect begets respect. The present Prime Minister would do well to try to emulate the fine democratic examples set by Don Dunstan and Neville Wran. 
This brings me to yet another of the present Prime Minister's broken promises. I refer to his undertaking that decisions and announcements relating to government policy would not be taken except by full Cabinet. It was an important undertaking and one which should have been made mandatory upon all Prime Ministersremembering that the Prime Minister has no constitutional power himself to recommend anything- by the Governor-General's insisting that recommendations by the federal Executive Council relating to such matters should be adopted at a meeting of the Council fully summoned for that purpose. There is plenty of evidence to show that the present Prime Minister is interfering in the portfolios of other Ministers. I am convinced that it was he who forced the redundancy of at least one departmental secretary. I am certain in my own mind that he is announcing policies publicly and altering administrative arrangements without the knowledge or approval of the appropriate Ministers and without the approval of Cabinet. 
By his very nature the present Prime Minister is aloof and authoritarian. Even his height, his good looks and proud bearing make him look arrogant. He is an only son of a fairly well-to-do family. It is true that he has one sister, but I think that his parents must have spoilt him and made him more selfish, more self-centred and even more ruthless than he might have been if he had belonged to an ordinary working class family. I have no proof that the present Prime Minister is a megalomaniac but he does display all the symptoms of egocentricity. 
-Very well. I can say this, that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  accurately divined the Prime Minister's shortcomings when he told colleagues that his arrogance would beat him at the election. The Leader of the Opposition was also right last year when he said that a key part of Labor's election campaign would be to alienate the then caretaker Prime Minister from the city voters by portraying him as an elitist, which of course he is. Another equally discerning politician,  Mr B.  A. Santamaria, probably came even closer to the truth when he predicted to a closed meeting of the Booksellers' Club in Melbourne a few months ago that the present Prime Minister's Achilles heel would be his failure to understand the intricacies of trade union power. He expressed the view that a confrontation between the present Prime Minister and organised labour may be inevitable. He said that if this does occur the present Prime Minister, Malcolm Fraser, could lose the leadership. 
There will be a confrontation between this Government and the trade union movement for the good and sufficient reason that the living standards of trade unionists are declining as each quarter's adjustment goes by. Strict wage guidelines designed to fatten those who are already too fat and to reduce living standards of those whose wage levels have never been enough to meet normal needs are one of the causes of the present trouble on the industrial front and one of the reasons which will lead to the confrontation which  Mr Santamaria  predicted. Between September 1973 and September 1974 the share of the gross domestic product going to labour increased by the massive amount of 6.2 per cent. Nothing like it has ever been seen before. The Australian Labor Government then decided that the time had come when the trade union movement should be allowed to consolidate those gains. The formula that we put forward was deliberately designed to do that and to ensure that there would be no reduction in living standards or that nothing would be done or be permitted to be done to take away the gains that had been made. The present policies represent a deliberate policy by the Treasury to create unemployment. It is an historic fact that governments always lose favour in periods of high unemployment. The Liberal Government was beaten in 1929. The Labor Government was beaten in 1931. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
Will the Minister extend to the research assistants of private Members the same provisions, in respect of travel, allowances and overtime, as were recently approved for the research assistants of some Ministers. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that he rejected a Strategic Assessment Study signed by certain departmental heads and the Chiefs of Staff; if so why. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Did the Government, in its recent economic consultations with the ACTU, reveal the 'economic model' on which the Department of the Treasury bases its prognosis of economic trends; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
How many people have been denied Australian citizenship under (a) paragraph 14 ( 1 ) (f) and (b) paragraph 14(1) (g) of the  Australian Citizenship Act  1948-1973 in each of the last 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Does the Australian Government continue to recognise the anti-democratic military junta which overthrew the democratically elected Allende Government of Chile; if so, why? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
Will the Minister communicate with commercial television and radio stations requesting their cooperation in bringing to the attention of that diminishing band of commercial announcers who still mispronounce the word ' kilometre ' that, if they practise saying the words 'millimetre', 'centimetre' and kilometre ' before going to air, they may find it easier to pronounce correctly the word 'kilometre '? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Are public servants required by Treasury Regulations, wherever possible, to use Qantas Airways for their overseas travel. 
Are Qantas tickets issued to public servants negotiable, and is the ticket holder free to change carrier at any point after his first stopover. 
Is Qantas unable to verify the original ticketing because the whole of the accounting of the travel undertaken is cleared through an IATA clearing house. 
Can he say whether some countries, eg, New Zealand and the United States of America, require full accountability of official travel to ensure maximum use of a national carrier. 
If the position is as stated, will he order a review of Treasury Regulations with a view to maximising the use of the Australian national carrier for all official travel overseas. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) What has been the total amount paid into the Parliamentary Retiring Allowances Fund during the last 30 years by the present Members for (a) Fremantle, (b) Hindmarsh, Mackellar and Lowe, (c) Melbourne Pons, (d) Lyne, (e) Werriwa, (f) Lang, (g) Bruce, Lalor, Moreton, Wannon and Wills, (h) Richmond, (i) Indi, Newcastle, Reid, Wakefield and Wimmera, (j) Hotham, (k) Gippsland and Oxley, and (1) New England. 
What are the respective lump-sum entitlements which each of these Members would be entitled to receive, in addition to his Parliamentary pension, upon retirement or defeat. 
3 ) Would any such Member be eligible for any lump-sum payment upon defeat or retirement, if he elected to accept a Parliamentary pension of 50 per cent. 
What would be the respective lump-sum entitlements due to a public servant who, having paid the respective amounts referred to in paragraphs (a) to (1) of part ( 1 ), elected to retire on a 5 per cent superannuation pension at 65 years of age after (a) 1 5 years, (b) 20 years, (c) 25 years and (d) 30 years of service. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
When were (a) TAA and (b) Ansett Airlines first informed of the Remuneration Tribunal's decision that (i) parliamentarians and (ii) senior public servants were entided to first-class travel at official expense. 
) Was this information transmitted orally or in writing. 
Who gave the advice, and on whose authority did he take such action. 
When did (a) TAA and (b) Ansett Airlines start allocating first-class tickets to Members entitled to such travel consequent to the advice being given. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
What was the percentage of married women among employees in the Australian workforce in 1904, 1910, 1920, 1930, 1940, 1945, 1947, 1950 and in each year since 1950. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) On what dates, and for what purposes, has  Sir John  Kerr travelled overseas since his appointment as GovernorGeneral. 
From whom did he seek approval for the cost of each overseas trip. 
Was there any occasion on which he travelled overseas without obtaining approval for the cost of the trip; if so, when was the occasion, and what was the purpose of the trip. 
Was there any occasion on which he was refused approval for a proposed trip; if so, when was the occasion, and what was the purpose of the trip. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
What part of the recent Determination of the Remuneration Tribunal gives a Member or  Senator the  right to seek and obtain travel and expense entitlements for an Electorate Secretary or Electorate Research Assistant when such Member or  Senator becomes  a Minister. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs upon notice: 
How many (a) males and (b) females currently hold valid Australian Diplomatic Passports. 
How many of these are (a) Australian Ministers, (b) Members of the Australian Parliament, (c) Secretaries of Australian Government Departments, (d) Ambassadors or High Commissioners, (e) other ranks (with particulars supplied) of (i) his own Department and (ii) other Departments, (f) members of Ministerial staff and (g) persons not included in the above categories. 
When did Cabinet make the decision that Members of the Australian Parliament travelling overseas on official business are not to be issued with Diplomatic Passports. 
Do all countries treat their elected national representatives in the same manner; if not, will he make a submission to Cabinet recommending a higher passport status for Members of the Australian Parliament travelling overseas on official business. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the Air Navigation Regulations as recently amended preclude undercutting by an airline against any other airline? 
Are Australian groups, who are subsidised by the Australian Government, required to use Qantas for overseas travel: if not, will he take steps to see that this obligation is made a condition attached to any Government subsidy to such group? 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
What are the names and last known addresses of authorised marriage celebrants in each State. 
Does he have a record of the number of marriage ceremonies performed by each celebrant; if so, what is the number. 
Are any of the celebrants members of the Federal or a State Parliament; if so, is it proposed to cancel the authorisation of these persons to perform civil marriages. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
How many names have been removed from the Commonwealth Electoral Rolls in each State in each of the last 5 years where (a) an elector's name was notified to a Divisional Returning Officer as being a woman over the age of 18 years whose marriage had been registered in the State during the month preceding such notification, (b) after each election, for either the Parliament of a State or of the Commonwealth, an elector had failed to vote at the preceding election and had not responded to a letter from the Electoral Office seeking an explanation for the elector's failure to vote and (c) the Electoral Office discovered that the address of the elector had been changed notwithstanding that he or she had continued to reside within the same sub-division or had continued to reside in the same Division for the purpose of sections 39(3) and 39B of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1975. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
What are the names of employee organisations registered under the  Conciliation and Arbitration Act  1904-1976 whose registered rules (a) permit the election of full-time executive officers by the 'collegiate' system of voting, (b) require that the election of full-time executive officers shall be by direct vote of the rank and file of the organisation and (c) were altered since 1 973 to comply with the requirements of section 133 of the Act 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Are illegal migrants entitled to claim social security benefits pending their apprehension; if not, is there any reason to believe that the benefits are being paid to illegal migrants. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
On what date did he (a) receive, (b) authorise the printing of and (c) present to Parliament the report of the Australian Delegation attending the 1975 session of the United Nations General Assembly. 
On what date did the General Assembly conclude its deliberations, and what were the corresponding dates in each of the previous live years. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What is the date on which Australia signed the 1966 International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. 
2 ) On what date did the Covenent enter into force. 
Can he say whether Canada, which has a similar constitutional background to that which operates in Australia, ratified the Covenant on 19 May 1976; if so, why has Australia failed to ratify the Covenant. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 867. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Do Australian Missions overseas keep a record of (a) Members of the Parliament, (b) Officers of his department and (c) other officers of Australian Government departments who are met at the local airport by an officer of the Mission. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What sum has the Australian taxpayer been saved in reduced expenditure by Australian Missions abroad in (a) liquor consumption, (b) domestic staff for Heads of Missions, (c) entertainment generally and (d) other specified reductions in expenditure since the Prime Minister announced his cut-back m Government expenditure. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that in Australian Missions abroad, officers of his Department have been appointed Charge D 'Affaires a.i. over the head of more senior attached officers and that this even happens in posts in which the predominant activity is the function of the department represented by these attached officers. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What was the total number of (a) First Division Officers, (b) Second Division Officers, (c) Third Division Officers, (d) Fourth Division Officers and (e) locally employed or unattached staff employed by his Department during each year since 1969. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that there is no constitutional barrier against any Australian Government abolishing (a) the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, ( b) the Australian Industrial Court, (c) the Federal Court of Bankruptcy, (d) the Family Court of Australia and (e) the Supreme Courts of the Territories. 
If so, is a Judge of any of these Courts or the Commission entitled to reappointment to a Court or Tribunal that is established to carry out the jurisdiction of the Court or Commission that is abolished. 
Is the Chief Justice of the Australian Industrial Court entitled to become the Chief Justice of a new Court established to perform the main functions of the Australian Industrial Court. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration recommend in general terms that where the principal interest for Australian representation in a foreign country was the responsibility of a department other than the Department of Foreign Affairs, such as trade or immigration, that the Australian Ambassador or High Commissioner should be appointed from that department. 
If so, when does the Government intend to give effect to the recommendation. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the estimated total interest bill paid by Australian citizens and companies in each year since 1970. 
What are the dates and details of changes in the interest rates in the same period, and what did each such change cost or save the Australian public. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the date on which it was decided to discontinue the RED Scheme. 
Was the decision taken at Cabinet level; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What is the reason for the inordinate delay that has occurred between the date on which Australia signed the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the date on which the Covenant was ratified. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the (a) number and (b) make of each motor vehicle attached to each Australian overseas mission. 
What was the amount paid by each mission for extra transport costs for the years ended 30 June 1972, 1973, 1974, 1975 and 1976. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
How many limited period diplomatic passports returned by the holders are presently being held by his Department. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Are staff members accompanying persons referred to in the latter part of his answer to question No. 1037 issued with diplomatic passports. 
asked the following question on notice of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the number of (a) butlers, (b) valets, (c) chefs, (d) kitchen staff, (e) waiters and waitresses, (f) 'nannies', (g) governesses or tutors, (h) commissionairs, (i) official hostesses, (j) watchmen, (k) guards, (1) chauffeurs, (m) gardeners and (n) other staff employed at the Australian taxpayers' expense in each country in which Australia is represented by an Ambassador, High Commissioner or Consul-General. 
2 ) What is the total cost of such staff in each post. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs upon notice: 
Are public servants attached to his Department, down to the equivalent of Class 5 of the Third Division, entitled to a diplomatic passport while representing Australia overseas. 
2 ) If not, what is the rule governing the granting of diplomatic passports to officers of his Department 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that his Department does not keep a record of the number of valid diplomatic passports which are currently on issue: if not, what is the number of such passports issued for (a) a limited period and (b) a period of years. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What are the dates on which (a) the previous Government and (b) the present Government examined and reviewed the categories of persons who are entitled to be issued with diplomatic passports when travelling abroad. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the categories of public servants which qualify for diplomatic passports while representing Australia overseas. 
How many officers belong to each of these categories, and how many of these are females. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
1 ) Which member countries of the International Bauxite Association impose a production levy on bauxite? 
Has the Australian Government studied the purpose of the levy; if so, does it intend to emulate the action already taken by other bauxite-producing countries, of compelling the multinational corporations, which now share a joint monopoly over alumina and aluminium production, to make a greater financial contribution to the Australian people for the benefits they derive from their exclusive rights to exploit Australian bauxite resources? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1) Can a person who is not a member of the Executive Council be commissioned by the Governor-General to administer an Australian Government Department. 
Can a member of the Executive Council who has not been commissioned to administer a particular Department exercise any constitutional rights to personally override an administrative act by the Executive Councillor commissioned by the Governor-General to administer that Department. 
Can the Secretary of a Department constitutionally direct an officer of his Department to disobey a constitutionally lawful request or instruction from the Executive Councillor commissioned by the Governor-General to administer that Department 
Has he personally known of any case where the Secretary of a Department has directly or indirectly sought to prevent an officer of his Department from giving advice or information to, or of carrying out a constitutionally lawful instruction of, a member of the Executive Council commissioned by the Governor-General to administer that Department. 
If so, was the secretarial action referred to in part (4) constitutionally valid; if not, will he take steps to amend the Public Service Act in such a way as to remove those sections that purport to give a member of the Australian Public Service authority to circumvent directly, or indirectly, any of the powers of administration belonging to the Executive Councillor commissioned to administer a Department. 
Has his attention been drawn to the opinion submitted to the Coombs' Commission by the Solicitor-General concerning the constitutional authority of Ministers vis-a-vis their departmental secretaries. 
7 ) Will he table that opinion. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Can he say which countries issue diplomatic passports to Members of Parliament representing their country at meetings of the (a) United Nations General Assembly, (b) Inter-Parliamentary Union and (c) Commonwealth Parliamentary Association. 
If so, which countries do so, and why are Members of the Australian Parliament not accorded similar status by the Australian Government as is accorded by countries such as Canada, Austria, Sweden and others. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to reports of witnesses being bullied, particularly widows, in cases corning before the South Australian Supreme Court; if so, can he say whether there is any substance in the allegations. 
Has his attention been drawn to a further report that, in a recent case, counsel was threatened with contempt of court unless he changed a Notice of Appeal to the Full Court; if so, can he say whether there is any substance in this report. 
If there is any evidence of an abuse of authority, will he co-operate with the South Australian Attorney-General to ensure that similar incidents are not permitted to arise in South Australia in cases involving Federal jurisdiction. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Do Australian Ambassadors and High Commissioners represent Australia independently of the Government which from time to time may be in office. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Is there a ceiling on the amount of expenses that a Minister may charge against the Australian Government in respect of meals, accommodation and entertainment while overseas on official business; if so, what is the ceiling. 
Is a Minister who charges the cost of accommodation and entertainment to the Australian Government while overseas on official business entitled to claim any daily allowance; if so, what is that amount. 
3 ) Can a Minister elect to take a daily allowance in lieu of the arrangements set out in parts ( 1 ) and (2). 
If so, what is the allowance in the case of a Minister (a) accompanied and (b) unaccompanied by a spouse. 
What are the conditions applicable to, and/or amounts payable to, the various categories of public servants while travelling overseas on official business. 
I want to say a few words about the relationship of the Parliament to the Executive and to the judiciary. The Constitution of this country, like the practice and customs of every other parliamentary democracy in the world, treats the Parliament as absolutely supreme. In relation to the judiciary the Parliament is still the highest court in the land. As a parliament we still have the right to exercise the final prerogative in jurisdiction over people who contravene our privileges and so on. I am not recommending that we should exercise that prerogative in anything but extreme circumstances, but the fact remains that legally and constitutionally we are the highest court in the land. We are the most important assemblage of people in the country yet we are being treated as mere rubber stamps of the Executive Government. It is not good enough. 
What ought to happen in this Parliament when the Budget comes down is for us to be given a Budget line by  Mr Speaker-  not a Budget fine by the Treasury endorsed by Cabinet or by the Prime Minister.  Mr Speaker  is the only person who should have any authority to tell this Parliament what it should have by way of budgetary provisions for any year's expenditure. The Executive Government has no right and certainly should not have any power to tell the Par.liament, the supreme body in any democracy, how much money it can have and how much it cannot have. I believe that it is absolutely obnoxious that members of the Parliament should have to go cap in hand to the Minister for Administrative Services to try to obtain the necessary assistance by way of research staff, electoral secretaries and so on in order better to serve their constituents. You,  Mr Speaker,  are the one who ought to determine what are the rights of the Parliament and of its members in carrying out their various responsibilities. I now hear the absurd proposition being put that members of the National Parliament are required to sign chits every time they use a Commonwealth car but that members of the judiciary need not do so. 
-The honourable member says that is true. If it is true it is an extraordinary situation.  Mr Speaker,  you who are our spokesman and the defender of our rights ought to assert yourself very strongly against the executive decision that chose to make this an order of the day. I should like to know who made this decision. I do not know whether the Parliament has enough officers. I sometimes think it has too many officers and that we ought to have fewer and better officers. That is my personal opinion; I do not know. But it should not be for the Government to decide whether the number is enough or not enough. It certainly should not be a matter of the Public Service Board telling  Mr Speaker  how many officers  Mr Speaker  should have to carry out his duties as the custodian of our privileges. That is all I want to say. I hope that this matter which has arisen tonight will not be forgotten and that the back benchers on the Government side as well as the honourable members on this side of the House will continue to press for a better deal for the Parliament. If they do not get it, they ought to demand it by taking action against the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser). 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral: When the Federal Court of Australia Act is next amended, will he give favourable consideraton to the incorporation in that Act of the financial assistance provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act? In the meantime, will he give an assurance that he will continue to give sympathetic consideration to persons who would have been eligible for financial assistance in proceedings before the Australian Industrial Court? 
I rise to join other members of the Parliament who have indicated their support for the measures we are now debating. For many years my Party has advocated simultaneous elections. The Australian Labor Party has not included in its platform all of the things that are included in the 4 proposals now before the Parliament but Labor members have certainly indicated their general support for these kinds of proposals at the Federal Labor Party Caucus level. At the same time, I do not think anyone ought to have any illusions about the reasons the Government has introduced these 4 proposals. The Government has clearly introduced them for an ulterior motive. It is wishing to avoid the necessity of facing an election for the retiring half of the Senate either later this year or early next year. The Government wants to avoid that like the plague because it knows that when that election is held, either late this year or early next year, it will be soundly defeated at the polls. The Government's stocks are now falling almost month by month and will continue to fall as unemployment continues to rise. That, of course, is a reason the Government wants this amendment brought through. 
The Government is in a quandary about the retiring half of the Senate. If it has a half Senate election early in the period permitted for this type of election- that is, between July and December- it knows that it will be badly beaten. If the Government postpones the election until later in the first half of next year, which is the latest possible date on which it can hold an election for the retiring half of the Senate, the date for the half Senate election will be brought so close to the date when the House of Representatives is due to go to the electorate that, by virtue of the stupidity of not doing so before, it would be forced to have the House of Representatives go to the electorate at the same time. This would mean that a House of Representatives election would be held before June next year. The result of that election would be absolutely disastrous for the Government. I think that almost any person could lead the Labor Party to victory at the next election. I do not think there is any doubt about that. I think that is how the Government feels about it as well. I believe that much more important than simultaneous elections is the power of the Senate to refuse Supply or to reject money Bills. If that power were taken away there would not be the same need or urgency as there now is for simultaneous elections. I am disappointed that the Government did not include a fifth proposal to define clearly the powers of the Senate to reject Supply and to reject money Bills. 
I am not surprised, but I believe that is far more important than all the 4 measures we are talking about put together. In respect of the filling of vacancies, the Government is acting in the way it is now acting for the sole purpose of trying to prevent the election of  Senator Brown  at the next half Senate election because, as the Constitution now stands, it would be necessary for Victoria to elect 6 senators instead of five. If 6 senators were to be elected in Victoria the chances are that the Australian Labor Party, if it did not win three of the long term vacancies, could not be prevented from winning two of the long term vacancies, with its third seat being the short term vacancy. This proposal means that the Government will be able effectively to prevent the Labor Party from having other than an outside chance of winning a third seat in Victoria because it will alter the Constitution so that the  Senator who  was appointed by the Victorian Parliament to fill the vacancy caused by the death of  Senator Greenwood  will now continue to hold office until the expiration of the normal term for which  Senator Greenwood  would have been entitled to hold office. That is the real reason why the Government is doing what it is. 
I would like to hear from the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Ellicott)  how it is proposed to recognise political parties. The honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)  indicated some of the circumstances which could arise which could make it extremely difficult for anybody to determine which party was entitled to nominate a person to fill a vacancy. I do not know what would happen in the case of  Senator Hall,  for example, who was elected to the Parliament representing a party called the Liberal Movement, which has in a sense disbanded and yet in a sense has not. I would think that its leader, Robin Millhouse, would argue that it has not disbanded, it has merely changed its name as the Country Party has so often done. Therefore if there were a vacancy arising as a result of  Senator Hall's  retirement it would have to be filled by the new Liberal Movement. But would it? Is the proposed alteration to the Constitution quite clear as to who would fill that position? 
There is another thing to which I would like to hear the Attorney-General address himself. I will wait till he has finished talking with the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  because the debate will be finished before he has a chance to read  Hansard,  as I have no doubt he usually does. I would like him to address himself to the question of who is to determine the position I have raised. I would like him to address himself also to whether it would be possible to bring in a special Act or to alter the Commonwealth Electoral Act for the purpose of defining these finer points. Would the Parliament be deemed to be exercising powers incidental to the Constitution if it brought in an Act so defining these fine points that have already been raised and which over the passage of years to come will emerge in new forms? 
I want to tell the Parliament about another extraordinary political situation that can develop in the recognition of political parties. If the Attorney-General would take this on board as well it would be greatly appreciated by me. The facts are that had  Mr Gair,  as he then was, and his supporters who assembled in Hobart in 1953 for the Federal Conference of the Labor Party due to be held in Hobart that year decided to call a meeting of their group plus the 6 disputed delegates from Victoria they would have had more delegates than has the group to which I belonged. The Gair group would have had 28 delegates, including its six disputed delegates, and I think we would nave had twenty. Had this group been able to vote with the other undisputed delegates to determine which of the two disputed delegations from Victoria were to be allowed to take their seats then there is still no doubt that the Gair group would have had the numbers to decide in favour of the Victorian group led by McManus and they would have had 22 delegates to our 14. 
The Gair group did not do that, but the result was avoided only because the Federal Executive of the Labor Party had taken the precaution to settle the question of the disputed Victorian delegates before the conference was called together. Had the Federal Executive not done so the result would have been entirely different. Had Gair decided to crash through- and not crash- who then would have decided which person should have been nominated to fill a Labor vacancy in, say, South Australia whose branch of the Federal party was in a minority? I suggest that the people who would have decided that would have been the people who controlled the Federal apparatus. That is something that needs to be looked at. 
I remember in 1948  Dr Evatt,  who was then the Federal Attorney-General, giving an opinion to the Federal Executive of the Labor Party to the effect that there were real legal difficulties in the recognition of political parties and he counselled us against even attempting to resolve them. I know one of the problems that he mentionedI remember it clearly- was that if you are able to devise a way of giving legal recognition to a political party the party would almost inevitably assume corporate powers and corporate responsibilities and could be sued in a way that it cannot now be sued and could be held to be liable even for some of the actions of its own members and executive. 
I was pleased to hear the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  announce his present admiration for  Mr Justice  Murphy. I can say that my support for the learned judge goes back far beyond 1968, when he moved to exclude  Mr Harradine  from the Federal Executive of the Labor Party. So I can say that it is with a great deal of joy that I join the Leader of the Opposition in expressing admiration for  Mr Justice  Murphy. 
Who? 
-You ask him. I turn now to the matter of people in the Territories having the right to vote. If a majority of States narrowly favoured a change the majority against it in the Territories would then be in a position to defeat the will of the 4 States. Let us imagine that 4 States each decided by a very narrow majority in favour of a change and that the 'yes' vote majority throughout the 6 States has only a few hundred- a few thousand if you like- an equal number to that margin plus one would be enough for the voters in the Australian Capital Territory to set aside the majority decision in a majority of States. 
The other thing I would like to know is: What would be the position if the Northern Territory is given statehood? I know that under the Constitution statehood can have attached to it whatever conditions the Parliament decides. But it cannot be taken for granted that that means that the Parliament has unlimited powers to decide what kinds of conditions attach. Any citizen of the Northern Territory- and certainly the AttorneyGeneral could appeal to the High Court against any decision of this Parliament regarding conditions that it may attach to Northern Territory statehood which the Northern Territory itself believed was arguable against in the High Court. There is no guarantee that the High Court would not uphold that appeal. I would be much happier to hear the Attorney-General say that, in the event of the Northern Territory being given statehood, that statehood would be on the same conditions as is applicable to the original States. At least if that were done there would be some advantage in that we would then only need to have a majority of four out of 7 States rather than a majority of four out of 6 States, providing always that the total number of people in the Commonwealth favoured the change. 
One thing about the change concerning simultaneous elections that I like is that it will have a disciplinary effect on the Senate. The Senate will be in a position of knowing that, each time it refuses Supply or whenever it behaves in a way that causes the Government of the day to deem it proper to have an election, the retiring half of the Senate will have to face an election as well. As it is, as one honourable member opposite pointed out, the senators are as free as the breeze, providing they do not have grounds for a double dissolution hanging over their heads, to send the House of Representatives to the country every year if they want to, because the GovernorGeneral has now established the precedent that whenever the Senate refuses Supply to the House of Representatives and the House of Representatives does not voluntarily go to the electorate, it is his duty to dismiss the Prime Minister, to appoint the Leader of the Opposition as caretaker Prime Minister and to dissolve the House of Representatives. 
-That was done under the same section of the Constitution. 
In fact it was the then Prime Minister's recommendation to the Governor-General that he use that section, a section which he did not know about until then, to dismiss me that led to the Governor-General's using it against the then Prime Minister exactly 5 months and 5 days later. I hope that this legislation will be the forerunner of similar exercises. I hope that regular constitutional conventions will be held and that parties will be sensible enough to reach agreement on the need for changes to the present Constitution, because unless this is done the parliamentary system will not survive. 
When the Attorney-General is replying in respect of the recognition of political parties I would like him to indicate what would be the position of  Senator Townley  in the event of his retirement. He came into the Senate as an Independent senator. He subsequently joined the Liberal Party. Does the Attorney-General believe that a correct interpretation of the proposed amendment would give the Liberal Party the right to nominate his successor? If not, would the Parliament of Tasmania have the right to appoint as a successor to  Senator Townley  a representative from the party which had the largest number of votes at the election at which  Senator Townley  was elected? I thank the AttorneyGeneral for listening to me so attentively and I will listen just as attentively to him when he replies. 

 -Mr Speaker, I would like to make a personal explanation, too. 
-I will not take as long as I ought to in this debate, but I want to say something about the trade practices legislation as a means of bashing the trade unions. I listened with a great deal of interest to my friend, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  who pointed out that the countries with which we like to compare ourselves, the United States and the United Kingdom are 2 countries which have never allowed themselves to fall into the kind of trap into which this Government is asking us to walk. I would like to take the Parliament s mind back to the year 1 90 1 and to the famous Taff Vale case in England. The Tai Vale railway took the railway union to court for damages as a consequence of a strike which had held up the operations of the Taff Vale railway. After a long series of court actions and appeals, the matter was eventually settled in the House of Lords in 1902. The famous Taff Vale case was written into the case law of England as representing part of the common law of England- namely, that a union or its officials could be held liable for damages caused to an employer as a consequence of a strike action. 
That distortion of Justice was corrected by the House of Commons in 1906- not by a House of Commons dominated by communists or even by Ramsay MacDonald 's socialists but a House of Commons dominated by people from the Reform Club of England, the Liberals, the Lloyd Georges, who saw the travesty of forcing unionists and trade unions to pay damages to an employer against whom they were engaged in a legitimate industrial dispute. From 1906 the law of England prohibited any action against unions or unionists for damages caused as a consequence of industrial disputes. This was the law of England until the famous  Rookes v. Barnard  case in the middle 1 960s when, by a decision of the High Court of England, it was held that the 1906 law of England did not provide an immunity against action for torts. The Wilson Government, to its eternal credit, altered the law again after the  Rookes v. Barnard  decision, to restore the rights of unions to use the boycott and the strike weapon to get a fair crack of the whip in an adversary situation with employers. It was not until the Heath Government came into power that the  Rookes v. Barnard  rejection was resuscitated to some slight extent. Even the Heath Conservative Government did not attempt to apply the law of torts to unions which were engaged in the kind of industrial disputes about which we are talking now. 
This brings us to the famous Donovan Royal Commission, which was held not many years ago, which brought down a unanimous finding, which was tabled in the House of Commons, stating that it is utterly impossible to use the law of torts as a means of preventing unions from exercising their right to strike. 
After all, what is the right to strike but the real trademark that distinguishes the free man from the slave? The only thing that distinguishes the free man from the slave is the right to strike. Take the right to strike away from a man who has only his labour to sell and we are looking at a slave, a mediaeval feudal slave. Do we want that? Some of us do. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard),  who is at the table and whom my friend the honourable member for Melbourne Ports respects so much, wants it and so does the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  want it. Well, I do not, and nobody on this side of the Parliament wants it. Nobody on the other side of the Parliament who wants to hold his seat dare say publicly that he wants it. 
I am going to issue this word of warning to the Government. If it attempts to bring in the trade practices legislation as an indirect means of the application of the law of torts to unions and unionists who are engaged in an adversary industry situation with employers, the Government is surely going to face the biggest industrial confrontation that it has ever seen. 
It is not blackmail; it is telling you the facts. Let me tell honourable members opposite what they are going to run up against. They will be able to defeat the unskilled worker. They will be able to put the indian sign on the worker who is not well organised. They will be able to do these things by this legislation. All that they will do will be to provoke the skilled worker in key positions who is able, through strike action, to hold up hundreds of millions of dollars of capital. Let us have a look at the strikes that have taken place in the airline industry. Why is it that Boeing 747 pilots are receiving over $50,000 a year. They are not worth it. Let me say at once that they are greatly overpaid. They are getting at least $20,000 a year more than they ought to get when we compare their salary with what a fitter and turner gets for the work he does. 
When I was Minister for Labour I told the Australian Federation of Air Pilots that these pilots were being overpaid. I bitterly opposed the increase and so did the Minister for Transport. In fact it was the then Prime Minister who eventually wrote the letter of instruction that forced Trans-Australia Airlines to follow Ansett Airlines of Australia in yielding to their demand for a 24 per cent pay rise when they had absolutely no right to it. But the pilots had the power to tie up hundreds of millions of dollars of capital owned by people who were paying tens of millions of dollars a year in interest and who on top of that were compelled to deliver millions of dollars in dividends. 
I can tell honourable members opposite that the confrontation is not going to take place with council employees. It is not going to take place with the workers who are unskilled or with those unions which have a large unskilled membership. The confrontation will take place through a carefully orchestrated industrial compaign against the Government under which a tiny handful of skilled key men will tie up the whole of Australia 's industry. They will crush the Government as surely as the miners of Britain crushed its confreres in Britain when the Heath Government was so utterly destroyed as a consequence of the key position held by miners of that country. The workers of this country, through their key personnel, will crush the Government as utterly as the miners crushed the Heath Government. I hope they do because I believe that Parliament is a farce in terms of the way that it is being used to crush the majority of the working people in this country. 
The working people of this country represent 82 per cent of the total voting population. If you want to pull them on- if honourable members opposite who represent and who speak for the 1 8 per cent want to crush the 82 per cent- the ballot box will determine your fate. Honourable members opposite will be forced to the ballot box because just as Kerr was able to force us to the ballot box by the use of the Constitution, or the misuse of the Constitution, there is a power that is greater than Kerr- the power of organised labour. There is no greater power than organised labour. In such a confrontation a lot of people will not have to starve. Nobody wm have to starve. Organised labour will be able to close down the wharves. I know that the Government's secret strategy is to pull on a dispute with the maritime unions. 
Yes, I want the unions to close the wharves before they allow this legislation to go on the statute books. They can and they will close the wharves. They will paralyse industry so completely that honourable members opposite will come back with their tails between their legs like whipped curs admitting that they cannot win against the organised might of organised labour. They have no chance of winning at all because they are only tiny little men who have none of the great battalions on their side. All that they have on their side are a few decrepit Press barrens and people who own the media. But the great power of the people is against them. Honourable members opposite will all have to face the ballot box sooner than they think if they put this legislation into being. 
It does not worry me very much if the Government goes ahead with this legislation because if it does it will be defeated either way. I am glad that the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  is in the chamber. He is about the only member on the other side of the Parliament for whom I have any respect. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
Did his Department produce a paper on the RED Scheme during 1 976. It so, when does he propose to release it. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
Are NEAT trainees included in Commonwealth Employment Service totals relating to registrants for employment 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 15 February 1977: 
1 ) What was the ratio of junior recipients of unemployment benefit to total unemployment benefit recipients as at 31 December 1976 compared with the situation at the same date in each of the previous 6 years. 
What proportion of registrants for employment with the Commonwealth Employment Service were receiving unemployment benefit as at 3 1 December 1976 compared with the position at that date in each of the previous 6 years. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 16 February 1977: 
What was the number of (a) persons in receipt of unemployment benefits, (b) unemployment benefit recipients as a percentage of the labour force and (c) unemployment benefit recipients as a percentage of registered unemployed as at the end of December 1948, 1953, 1958, 1963, 1968, 1973, 1974, 1975, and 1976. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Committee of Permanent Heads set up to advise the Government on the implementation of the Report of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration yet reported to the Government. 
) On how many occasions has the Committee met. 
When is it expected that the Committee will furnish its final Report. 
Does the Government intend to table the Committee's Report. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
What progress has been made in setting up a Bureau of Labour Economics which can compile and evaluate statistics relating to the labour market as a means of assisting the Government in its economic planning. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
Will he provide statistics calculated on the same basis to compare the levels of unemployment for each month of (a) 1972, (b) 1974and(c) 1976 to September. 
I support my friend, the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  who raised this matter of public importance. I congratulate him upon an excellent expose of the Government's hypocrisy on economic matters, particularly on industrial relations matters. During the period September 1973 to September 1974 the share of the gross domestic non-farm product that went to wages increased by 6.2 per cent. It was a record increase in any 12-months period since Federation. It was more than industry could afford to meet every year, but it was not more than industry could have afforded to maintain because for many decades prior to the period September 1973 to September 1974 the share of the gross domestic non-farm product going to wages was very much less than it should have been. If one goes back over the statistics one finds that for nearly 60 years the share going to wages fluctuated only a point of one per cent one way or the other, going up some years and going down in others. But at the end of that period it was no more than it was at the beginning in spite of the fact that the number of people in the work force had increased considerably, that there had been a considerable increase in population participation in the work force and that we had the benefit on top of all of these factors of technological advancement and change. 
What we ought to understand is that the expression 'average weekly earnings' is really a misnomer because people believe that when we talk about average weekly earnings of $ 1 90 a week the average wage earner is getting $190 a week. But he is not. The number of people whose award rates equal $ 1 90 a week is less than 30 per cent of the total work force. More than 65 per cent of the total work force is getting wages, inclusive of over award wages and overtime payments, of less than the average weekly earnings The number of people who are getting the mere minimum wage or average award rates is well over one million. Anybody who is trying to live on a minimum wage of $ 101- from recollection I think that is the figure and I note that the honourable member for Gellibrand agrees with me that that amount is correct- and having to rear and educate children just cannot possibly get his head above the poverty level. So we have the situation in Australia today that there are one million people who are in receipt of age or invalid pensions or some other form of social service benefits. On top of that are more than one million who are getting less than the average award rates. We have 250 000 people whose only income is the unemployment benefit. Another 200 000, though not in receipt of the unemployment benefit, are idle when they want to work and are being maintained by either their parents or spouses. 
The Treasury is calling out for consumer led recovery. How on earth can we have a consumer led recovery when the situation I have just outlined exists? What the Government does not seem to understand is that it has created an economic climate in which something like 2½ million people are living either below or just above the poverty line. Those who are working are too afraid to spend their money in case they will join the queue. That is why there are record savings bank deposits. Every month sees the breaking of a new record because the situation boiled downand I repeat it- is that those who are working are too afraid to spend and the rest who are not working do not have any money to spend anyhow. 
I watched the almost obscene extravagance of last night's revelry here in Parliament House. I looked at people guzzling the finest wines and eating oysters that were still alive to ensure that they were fresh. As I looked at that gathering I subtracted the people who were Labor members of this Parliament and I realised that 98 per cent of the rest were those who supported this Government's contention that workers getting $101 a week should not receive the full benefit of the 6 per cent increase in the consumer price index. How hypocritical can the Government become! How blase can it become when it squanders that amount of money on the kind of obscene extravagance that we saw last night. If Her Majesty the Queen had known that more than 2 million of her subjects in this country were near or below the poverty level she would have been absolutely disgusted to think that her elected representatives in Parliament were parties to this kind of extravagance. 
The position of the South Australian and Tasmanian governments is one that I believe is much fairer than that adopted by this present Government. Their attitude is that the 3.2 per cent increase in the CPI that was due to this Government's decision to introduce a compulsory Medibank levy should go only to people who are earning up to $12,000 a year. Their argument is that no one should make a profit out of Medibank. Yet if this Government was to have its way and the 3.2 per cent increase was applied right across the board we would find that  Mr Jonathan  Stone, a  Deputy  Secretary of the Treasury, would make a 900 per cent profit on the amount that he pays to Medibank. Even on an after-tax basis he would make a 300 per cent profit. The South Australian Government is against that. It believes that no one should make any profit out of that portion of the CPI that is due to an increase brought about by Medibank. 
I agree with the South Australian Government. But that Government then goes on to say that 2.8 per cent of the balance of the 6 per cent ought to be applied to everybody according to what his wages are. The great mistake that the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission made in the first national wage case in May 1974 was this: If the Commission had then introduced wage indexation on the basis of automatic adjustment every quarter with a plateau at the average award rate as the Australian Council of Trades Unions then asked for- the ACTU 's claim was a little higher, $7 a week higher than the Goverment was asking for- and also had taken care to see that industries like the metal industries were given a proper starting point for the new indexation system we would not now be in the position we are in. 
When the metal trades case was before the Commission in May 1975 a fitter was getting an award wage of $26 a week less than he should have received because, ever since  Mr Justice  Higgins had tied the fitter's rate to the carpenter's rate more than 60 years ago, the fitter's and carpenter's margins have been identical. Yet we find that the award rate for fitters had dropped by $26 a week. Until the fitter's award rates are increased we will never get peace in industry, and the Government does not deserve it. We will never get enough skilled tradesmen. One hundred and fifty thousand skilled tradesmen have left the work force already in the last 5 years. Who will be stupid enough to become a tradesman when he can get three times as much for being a clerk? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I direct to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations a question with a short preface. Under the rules of some unions- one large union that I know of- the membership year commences on 1 August in a particular year and the ballot for offices is held between then and 3 1 December of that year, but the financial year of the union does not end until, say, May of the following year. I ask the Minister to tell the House how the Commonwealth Electoral Office will be able to forward ballot papers to those members entitled te vote in a union ballot, when the rules are as I have just described, where- and I repeat- the rules of that union fix 1 August as the beginning of the financial year and 31 December as the deadline for the ballot to be held in that year, and a date 7 months later for the end of the financial year and for the return of all ticket butts, which prevents the compilation of an electoral roll before the end of May of the following year, 7 months after the ballot has been completed? I also ask the Minister. Do the regulations already published make provision for the Registrar to be informed of the opening and closing dates for nominations and for the publication of those dates in the case of unions whose rules do not specify opening and closing dates? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
How did the rate of a full age pension for (a) single pensioners and (b) pensioner couples compare in percentage terms with the (i) minimum wage and (ii) average weekly earnings for adult males in the Budget of each year since 1969. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) What action has the Australian Bureau of Statistics taken to disaggregate civilian employment by industry, location, occupation, age, marital status and sex. 
Will he consider asking the Australian Bureau of Statistics to conduct a regular survey of establishments and a monthly labour-force survey covering data on earnings, employment, hours of work, overtime, vacancies, labour turnover, employment practices and the disposition and composition of labour resources. 
asked the Treasurer upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Will he consider taking steps to have Treasury Regulations altered in such a way as to ensure a stricter control over public servants travelling overseas who seek to avoid using their own national airline for overseas travel paid for by the Australian taxpayer. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Does he personally know of any case in which the Secretary of a Department has directly or indirectly sought to prevent an officer of his Department from giving advice or information to, or of carrying out the constitutionally lawful instruction of, a Member of the Executive Council commissioned by the Governor-General to administer that Department. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Is there anyone in the Department of Administrative Services who is in a position to state when the airlines started allocating first class tickets to Members of Parliament following his Department's notification to airlines of new travel entitlements to Members of the Parliament. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
1 ) In what form are statistics kept concerning the removal of names from the Commonwealth Electoral Roll. 
What is the total number of names that were removed from the Electoral Rolls in each year since 1 970. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) What changes have been made in the matching and lapsing procedures of his Department since1 January 1970. 
If changes have been made, what were the nature of the changes. 
Is any of this work carried out by Fourth Division officers. 
What is the lowest classification of Third Division officers performing this work. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Do Commonwealth Employment Service statistics indicate the general and sectoral levels of unemployment in (a) occupations (b) industries (c) regions and (d) age/sex groups in a manner which can be used for comparing various levels of general and sectoral unemployment. 
asked the Treasurer upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) Does the Department of the Treasury rely upon the Joint Treasury-Australian Bureau of Statistics Econometric Model alone for making its prognoses ofeconomic trends. 
If not, what are the other factors that are taken into account, and were these revealed to the ACTU during the Government 's economic consultations with that body. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
Will he confirm that section 43 of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 will extend to proceedings in the Industrial Division of the Federal Court, and any appeals concerning industrial matters, by restricting the awarding of costs in industrial cases to vexatious litigation and unreasonable causes. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Would it be possible, when the Conciliation and Arbitration Act is next consolidated, for the parts and sections of that Act to be re-numbered in such a way as to eliminate alphabetical distinctions between numbered parts and sections of the Act. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
From which Judges or persons who later became Judges has the Commonwealth purchased law books. 
asked the Treasurer upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
How many adjustments have been made to the value of the Australian dollar since 1 November 1976, on what days were the adjustments made, and what was the extent of each? 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
Will he arrange for the printing of the consolidation of the Conciliation and Arbitration Regulations. 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. Has the honourable gentleman seen a report that a law lecturer in Western Australia is of the opinion that the complement of the New South Wales and South Australian members to this House was unconstitutionally elected at the general election and that he is proposing to ask the High Court to declare those members' election void and to order new elections in those States in elections to be held at large? Should such action eventuate, will the Attorney-General give an undertaking to provide legal assistance to each of the 57 members who might be affected by such litigation? In view of the high constitutional importance of this issue and the need for the Parliament to be structured in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, will he be willing to meet the costs of the plaintiff if the action proves unsuccessful? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 17 March 1977: 
1 ) Is it a fact that 2 officers of the Minister's Department have been using the Department's computer facilities to write a program for a private enterprise company in Melbourne. 
Is it also a fact that these 2 officers are planning to go, or have already gone, to Melbourne to install the program at a privately-owned computer bureau and that they have been granted 3 weeks' recreation leave to cover the period needed for the installation. 
3 ) Is it also a fact that the officers concerned have already received approximately $10,000 in payment for the work they have so far undertaken. 
If not, what are the facts. 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek leave to make a statement on the same matter. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
Are seasonally adjusted unemployment figures still being compiled for internal departmental purposes. 
) If so, do these figures include school-leavers. 
Will he make these figures available to the media. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Can a taxpayer whose taxable income includes income from say property, shares and the like, transfer such assets to a trustee company specially set up by the taxpayer for the purpose of distributing the income from such assets to nontaxable members of his own family. 
Is it a fact that in cases where the beneficiaries' total income remains less than $2,000 a year, no tax would be paid on such income and that, where this applied to say a wife and 3 dependent children, a total of $8,000 of otherwise taxable income per year would become free of tax. 
Apart from the technical loss of equity and the fact that in certain circumstances the taxpayer engineering such a transaction would not be able to claim the dependants' deduction from his income return and that he may have to pay a once only gift duty, what other disabilities would he suffer. 
What would be the amount of tax avoided by making a transfer of assets earning say $8,000 of taxable income per year in a case such as set out in part (2) if the taxpayer had other taxable income of (a) $10,000, (b) $15,000, (c) $20,000 and (d) $25,000. 
Does he intend to take any action to close this loophole in the tax laws. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 1 7 March 1 977: 
1 ) Is it a fact that veterans and widows of veterans, who are required to supply information to the Department of Veterans' Affairs, are no longer provided with a reply paid envelope as was the case when previous governments were in office. 
If so, what is the reason for the change. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
1 ) What progress has been made towards the establishment of a computer network linking all offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service as was envisaged by his predecessor but one prior to his dismissal. 
Is it a fact that such a network would facilitate the matching of job vacancies and applications by reducing applicant matching time, increase out-of-area placement, reduce turnover or rate of registration, increase penetration and hence vacancy filling rates, and improve analysis of labour market information for review and formulation of manpower policy. 
Is it a fact that regardless of whether the work now carried out by the Commonwealth Employment Service is under the jurisdiction of his Department or of some statutory body it will remain impossible to overcome existing difficulties without the assistance of up-to-date computerisation facilities. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Does the Australian Bureau of Statistics compile quarterly statistics showing (a) real output on an industry-by-industry basis and (b) input-output tables by industry. If not, why not. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
Have the particulars sought in question No. 864  (Hansard,  14 September 1976, page 1027) ever been required by a member of the Parliament prior to the date upon which I placed that question on notice. If not, what is the justification for his statement that it is not the practice to supply the information sought. 
Is it possible for a public servant who retired now with a salary of $2 1,250 per annum, having attained the age of 65, and having completed 20 years of service, to receive a lump sum refund of all of the contributions that he has ever made to the Superannuation Fund plus a wholly Governmentfunded pension of 50 per cent of his salary. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 29 March 1 977: 
Was an investigation made into the quality of imported or Australian cheeses, and a report prepared thereon. 
Was the report marked 'never to be released'. If so, will he now release the repon. 
If he is not prepared to release the report, what is the reason. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) What has been the response to the current advertising and promotional campaign for migrants in the United Kingdom. 
Is it a fact that advertisements do not specify which occupations are currently in demand and eligible to apply for migration. 
What percentage of (a) applications and (b) inquiries come from persons whose qualifications and experience meet current occupational criteria. 
What sum has been allocated for advertising and promotional purposes (a) in the United Kingdom and (b) in other countries during 1976-77. 
On current projections, how many (a) assisted and (b) unassisted migrants will emigrate to Australia from Britain during 1976-77, and how does this compare with previous intakes since 1946. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
What is the number of ( a ) blue-collar and ( b ) white-collar workers in the total number of employees in the Australian workforce. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
What was the total number of potential man days lost to production on account of unemployment in 1 976. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) How many changes have been made to the statistical base of Commonwealth Employment Service figures for covering registrants for employment since 1 January 1970. 
) What was the date and nature of each such change. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 30 March 1977: 
What portion of the answer to question No. 866  (Hansard,  21 September 1976, page 1271) provided the information sought in question No. 105. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March: 
Has there been any occasion when an officer from a Department other than his own has been appointed Charge d 'Affaires a.i. in charge of an overseas mission in the absence of the head of the mission? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
1 ) Is it a fact that some of our officers serving at overseas posts do not enjoy full diplomatic immunity and privileges. 
If so, what are the circumstances and criteria applied in determining the issue of diplomatic passports and privileges for Australian staff based in (a) the United States of America, (b) the United Kingdom and (c) Seoul. 
How many consular or administrative officers have (a) applied for and (b) succeeded in transferring to the diplomatic class. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
1 ) Is it a fact that he subscribes to the view that Ministers should use simple and precise language and avoid abstract generalisations. 
If so, will he have another look at his reply to question No. 1035  (Hansard,  9 December 1976, page 3720) with a view to giving me a simple and precise answer to the simple and precise questions contained in paragraphs ( 1 ) to (4) of that question. 
I wish to refer to the devious and dissembling reply that I have received to question on notice No. 61.1 seek leave to incorporate the question and answer in  Hansard. 

 The question and answer read as follows- 

Parliamentary Retiring Allowances Fund (Question No. 61) 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) Have the particulars sought in question No. 864  (Hansard,  14 September 1976, page 1027) ever been required by a member of the Parliament prior to the date upon which I placed that question on notice. If not, what is the justification for his statement that it is not the practice to supply the information sought. 
Is it possible for a public servant who retired now with a salary of $21,250 per annum, having attained the age of 65, and having completed 20 years of service, to receive a lump sum refund of all of the contributions that he has ever made to the Superannuation Fund plus a wholly Governmentfunded pension of 50 per cent of his salary. 
As far as can be established, prior to 14 September 1976 no member had asked for details of the contributions paid by, or the benefit entitlements of, another currently serving member by way of a parliamentary question. My office and my Department from time to time receive inquiries, including some from representatives of the media, about the entitlements of particular members. The practice followed has been not to provide such personal details on the ground that they relate to personal financial affairs. Every request by a member or former member for advice as to his own entitlements or on the interpretation or application of the provisions of the Parliamentary Retiring Allowances Act 1 948 is, however, fully met. 
A public servant retiring at age 65 after 20 years service would receive a Government-financed pension of 50 per cent of his salary at retirement provided that: 
his 20 years service was a 'period of contributory service' for the purposes of the Superannuation Act 1976; 
he was an 'existing contributor' for the purposes of the Superannuation Act 1976; and 
as at 30 June 1976, he did not have any rejected units of pension under the Superannuation Act 1922. 
In addition, the employee would be entitled to an additional age retirement pension, the annual rate of which would be determined having regard to his accumulated contributions (the amount of his stake in the Superannuation Fund as at 30 June 1976 and the amount of contributions paid to that Fund since 1 July 1976, including interest on those amounts since 1 July 1976) and his age on the last day of service. The maximum rate of additional pension allowed is an amount equal to 20 per cent of the employee's final annual rate of salary; should the accumulated contributions be more than sufficient to provide a 20 per cent additional pension, the excess would be refunded to him. An employee may elect to receive a lump sum payment of his accumulated contributions in lieu of the additional age retirement pension. 
I shall read that part of the question which asks: 
Is it possible for a public servant who retired now with a salary of $2 1,250 per annum, having attained the age of 65, and having completed 20 years of service, to receive a lump sum refund of all of the contributions that he has ever made to the Superannuation Fund plus a wholly Governmentfunded pension of 50 per cent of his salary? 
I do not blame the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  I blame the officer responsible for preparing the reply to that part of question on notice No. 61. The question was a straight forward one. The reply should have been straight forward. It could have been answered with one word- the word 'yes'. Instead, the reply consists of no fewer than 222 words which are deliberately designed to obscure the simple fact that a level 6 officer of the Australian Public Service Will be entitled to a superannuation pension of $338 a week for life, plus every cent that he has paid into the Superannuation Fund since he first started his employment 20 years earlier, plus interest on moneys that have been paid by him into the Superannuation Fund after last year. Some permanent heads Will receive a pension of $375 a week for life,  plus aU that they have paid into the Fund  given back to them in a lump sum. No wonder the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  was moved to describe senior officers of the Australian Public Service as the 'modern mandarins'. 
Why was the author of the reply so dissembling in this matter? Why did he not give a straightforward answer to my straightforward question? Was he too ashamed to give a truthful and unequivocal answer, or was he just incapable of doing so? Perhaps he was embarrassed by the fact that if every employee in the Australian work force were to be given a noncontributory superannuation pension equal to 50 per cent of the retiring income the cost would total $4,000m a year. That would have to be placed upon the shoulders of private enterprise, alternatively, it would have to be met by the general taxpayer. Why go through the charade of paying a 5 per cent levy on salaries if the public servants are to have it all returned to them in a lump sum, plus a life pension equal to 50 per cent of their salary when they retire? 
But the position is even worse than that. Now the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association, the union which represents the third and second divisions of the Public Service, has announced that it wants more. It says: 'This is only the start. We want the rest of what we originally asked for, and we are going to campaign until we get it'. It is not getting enough. It wants the weekly pension indexed by 1.4 times the movement in the consumer price index so that if those officials are in that situation in 20 years time the automatic adjustment of the superannuation pension by 140 per cent of the CPI will put them even further ahead. I do not mind what they get, but they have got no right to ask the general public to give its servants something that the general public cannot afford to give itself. If the Australian Public Service is prepared to pay the extra taxes needed to extend its superannuation benefits to everybody else, I am all for a generous superannuation scheme for every Australian man and woman in the work force. If they are not prepared to do that, I will oppose any proposal that is put forward by public servants to put them in a better position than the public they are supposed to serve. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 18 February, 1977: 
1 ) Will he take steps to ensure that members of the Commonwealth Parliament representing their country at meetings of the (a) United Nations General Assembly (b) InterParliamentary Union and (c) Commonwealth Parliamentary Association are issued with diplomatic passports. 
It is a fact that other countries issue diplomatic passports to members of Parliament representing those countries at international gatherings. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 18 February 1977: 
Were the reviews made by the present and previous Governments in (a) September 1974 (b) July 1975 and (c) July 1976, in respect of diplomatic passports, taken at Cabinet level; if not, at what level were the decisions taken. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether he will give an assurance to the Parliament that he does not intend in any way to question the complete constitutional independence of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission nor does he intend to treat it as another government department? 
On Saturday morning the Melbourne  Sun  published an article written by Laurie Oakes concerning a United States labour attache named Robert L. Walkinshaw. It is about Robert L. Walkinshaw that I wish to have something to say in this debate. Robert L. Walkinshaw parading as a United States labour attache, arrived in Australia in August of 1962. He stayed here until shortly after I lodged official complaints with the United States Embassy against his undiplomatic interference in the internal affairs of the Australian trade union movement in general and of the Australian Workers Union in particular. I subsequently met  Mr Walkinshaw  at the American Embassy and in the presence of a senior United States diplomat I repeated my charge that he was engaged in McCarthy-like operations against loyal and trusted members of the Australian Labor Party who were refusing to toe the Central Intelligence Agency line. He denied my charge. I did not expect him to do otherwise. Although he left Australia soon afterwards his work was continued by the agents he had enlisted during the 26 months he had operated here. During that time the CIA financed and supplied all the material for a news sheet published in Melbourne called  Spotlight  which was published by a CIA operative who covered by working as a taxi driver. 
I turn now to this publication  Spotlight.  I quote excerpts from an item under the heading 'Australian Workers Union' of 15 August 1964. The report read: 
There have been some people in South Australia who believe that Clyde is also the moving force behind the leftist perverts operating within the AWu as hate peddlers. Spotlight predicts that the Cameron forces will defeat O'Connor. This does not necessarily mean that Dougherty will sit idly by and allow them to take over. It does mean that Cameron will win the first round. Don't be surprised, however, if Dougherty wins the rest of the rounds. It looks as though the incumbent  President  of the AWU, Horace Davis, is on his way out.  His  opponent in the triennial elections scheduled for September, Edgar Williams, has the support of Tom 
Dougherty, which is tantamount to election in the AWU. Rumour has it that Dougherty views Davis as weak and ambivalent and rumour has it also that Davis was criticised for not playing a more decisive role in ALP affairs in Victoria over the years. 
The so-called 'leftist perverts' in the South Australian branch of the AWU were none other than  Mr Reg  Groth, MHA, the hon. James E. Dunford, MLC, Michael Jerome Young, MP, who is Labor's shadow Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs,  Senator Don  Cameron and the hon. John D. Wright, South Australia's present Minister for Labor and Industry. None of these gentlemen were members of Parliament in 1964. All of them were elected officers of the AWU and highly respected members of the ALP. Walkinshaw admitted to me that he had not met any of those officials and that his assessment of them had been based entirely upon information that had been fed to him by another official of the AWU. Notwithstanding this, he made arrangements for literature to be sent to thousands of AWU members in S.A. urging the defeat of the so-called Cameron forces. The postings of these letters continued after his departure. 
As events turned out  Spotlight's  prediction that 'the Cameron forces will win the first round ' proved correct, but Walkinshaw had another string to his bow, or at least he thought he had. That is why  Spotlight  said: 'Don't be surprised however, if Dougherty wins the rest of the rounds'. Two things prompted this prognosis: First, Dougherty had told him that in the event of the rank and file electing the 'wrong candidates', he would use his control of the union's executive council to cancel the ballot, expel or dismiss the successful candidates, put the branch under the control of the executive council and appoint his own men to fill the positions. Secondly, Walkinshaw was able to assure Dougherty that the CIA had infiltrated the personal staff of one of the judges who would probably determine the show-cause proceedings that could be anticipated and that one of the other judges who would be most likely to sit on the case was already committed to their cause. It was no idle boast on  Mr Walkinshaw  's part. 
I first got wind of the CIA 's infiltration into the chambers of the court after judgment had been reserved and before it was delivered on 29 October 1 975. 1 had been told by a university law lecturer that he had gained possession of all of the notes made by one of the judges who was then in the course of writing his judgment. He told me that he had received them from the judge's associate. Then at a Melbourne Christmas party in 1965, a young man was overheard to lament- and I quote: 
We would have got Cameron's mates if Dougherty hadn't buggered up the case. 
That remark was too significant to ignore because it indicated that there had been a conspiracy to remove the democratically elected officials of the South Ausralian branch of the AWU. From further inquiries I discovered that the  speaker  was none other than the judge's associate who had stolen the notes of his judge and had handed them to the Melbourne law lecturer. But in his description of Dougherty's motives, this particular judge wrote the most scathing analysis of trade union politics that has ever been handed down from a bench of the Australian Industrial Court. It was one of the finest judgments I have ever read and in my view should be required reading in every law school in Australia. So I now knew that the term 'we' as used by this associate did not mean the 'judge and me'; it meant 'someone else and me'. That someone was not the man who had fumbled the ball in the court proceedings. From further inquiries I was informed that the judge's associate was a CIA suspect and was closely linked with Walkinshaw and the news sheet  Spotlight.  When I told the then Leader of the Opposition what I had discovered, he insisted on my informing the judge and this I did. The judge made his own inquiries and was able to confirm all I had said. He dismissed his associate immediately. 
I want to turn to the other prognosis made by  Spotlight  and that is that  Mr Davis  was going to be defeated. The genisis of that prognosis goes back to 1952 when a secret move was made by a man named Krygier- the first non-American CIA agent ever appointed to Australia. It is said that Krygier came to Australia on the same ship as  Dr Bialoguski  of Petrov fame. Late in the 1940s Krygier struck up an association with a young Sydney barrister who had just returned from World War II. Another associate was Francis James; another was  Mr W.  C. Wentworth and another was a prominent union official. The five of these people met in 1951 at a private dinner party and discussed ways and means of taking over certain unions. The young barrister advised on legal moves;  Mr Wentworth  dealt with publicity and  Dr James  outlined the strategy of the exercise. By now the young barrister had become very successful. He had been exposed for what he was. He was sacked by  Mr Dougherty.  That same barrister, after World War II, held a commission in a secret Army intelligence unit and was recommended for appointment into the British Intelligence. Later on he became Commander-in-Chief of the Australian Armed Forces. He is the man who dismissed the Whitlam Government one day after the CIA cabled its concern about the then Prime Minister's exposing the CIA's activities in Australia. The conclusions to be drawn from what I have said are all too clear: The CIA is not only seeking to subvert officials and members of the trade union movement, but is actually concerning itself in the affairs of the Government itself. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) What are the names of members of the Australian Parliament who have died while in office. 
What are the names of the widows of senators and members who have died in office and who have received an  ex gratia  payment on top of their Parliamentary Retiring Allowances entitlements. 
Will the precedent set by the payment of an  ex gratia  payment to the widow of the former Minister for Environment now apply to all senators and members whose work contributes to their death. 
Did the widow of the late  Senator Milliner  receive any  ex gratia  payment; if not, why not. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
What progress has he made in seeking to resolve the issues involved in the implementation of the 1966 International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. 
-On 18 May 1974  Senator Bill  Brown warned that the then United States Ambassador, Marshall Greene, was in Australia to protect American financial interests and to ensure the maintenance of that country's military installations in Australia. He was condemned and repudiated by one member of his Party for daring to question the motives of  Mr Greene.  However, I had a very good reason for taking his warning seriously.  Mr Greene  called at my Canberra office in July 1973, accompanied by the United States Labour Attache,  Mr Ed  McHale. I asked  Mr Greene:  'What would your country do if Australia were to take over the subsidiaries of multi-national corporations in Australia?'. I guess that the question was unexpected, but his instant reply was: 'We would move in'. 'Bring in the marines, like?', I challenged. 'Oh, no', he answered me: 'The days of marine diplomacy are over'. I asked: 'Well, what do you mean by "move in"?'. He mentioned trade, but when I reminded him that that would be his loss more than ours he remarked that there were other things that his country could do. What did he mean? Was he threatening to destabilise our economy, as was done in Chile, Greece and Guatemala, or was he threatening to arrange for the Central Intelligence Agency to organise a coup of some kind as it had done after the completion of destabilisation of Greece, Chile, the Congo, Iran and other countries? 
Subsequently I repeated this conversation in the presence of  Mr McHale  and his successor in the Lobby Restaurant just before  Mr McHale  returned to the United States, and he did not correct a single point of my recital of that conversation. So here we had the Ambassador of the United States threatening a Minister of State of a friendly country with interference in its internal affairs should its democratically elected government ever receive a mandate to take over the investments of American private corporations. Can anyone imagine any Australian Government feeling obligated to take such action in the event of some Australian investor losing his assets in another country? 
I raise this matter in the Parliament of Australia because I want the United States Ambassador to see that  President  Carter is informed of our apprehension about CIA activities in our country. I want  President  Carter to know that there is a genuine bond of friendship between our 2 countries which is unparalleled perhaps in any other countries in the world. I watched and admired Governor Carter throughout his presidential campaign and I told  Mr Cyrus  Vance in the Australian Ambassador's New York residence of my fervent hope that he would win that election. I believe that  President  Carter will emerge as the greatest American  President  in history, even greater than Abraham Lincoln. He will be great because he will give America clean government and thus restore to the American people a pride and self-respect that slowly has been slipping from their grasp. He will be great because he will keep the CLA out of the internal affairs of other countries, especially allies like Australia. In this way he will not only win the respect of all Americans but also he will gain the deep admiration and respect of the people of all other countries of good will. I conclude by wishing the new  President  every possible success in the earnest endeavours that I know he is making to clean up the system of CIA interference in other countries, especially countries like ours that have a friendly relationship with his country. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
1 ) How many employees were there in the Australian work force at the end of each quarter in each of the years from 1970 to 1976 inclusive. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) Are employed persons prohibited from registering for a change of employment. 
) Arc such registrants included in the totals of registrants for employment. 
Is there any obligation under the law which requires registrants to notify the Department when they obtain employment or are no longer seeking employment. 
Can he give an estimate of the number of (a) unemployed and (b) under-employed persons who are not registered for employment. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) How many labour force surveys has the Australian Bureau of Statistics conducted since 1962. 
How did the numbers of persons registered for employment with the Commonwealth Employment Service compare with the numbers of persons revealed to be unemployed by each Australian Bureau of of Statistics survey. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
What was the entertainment allowance given to Ambassadors and other officers with representational duties at each Mission, in each of the years from 1 970 to 1 976 inclusive. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
1 ) Is it a fact that labour market imbalances due to geographical, occupational and demographical segmentation of the labour market tend to exacerbate inflation and that the traditional approach of economic management cannot overcome the effect of such market imbalances. 
If so, what has the Government done to cope with these problems. 
-My question to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations relates to the proposed Industrial Relations Bureau. Is it a fact that at present breaches of section 32 and section 4 1 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, which relate to bans clauses, can be prosecuted by the Arbitration Inspectorate providing that a certificate is issued by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission? Is it also true that breaches of section 138, which relates to incitement to strike, can be processed by the Arbitration Inspectorate without a certificate? If this is so, will these powers of the Arbitration Inspectorate as now operating be transferred to the IRB? 
I have much pleasure in joining with the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  in congratulating the Australian Ambassador to the United Nations on the excellent work which he is doing there on behalf of our country. Like the honourable member I share the pride which he felt in the very high standard of the supporting staff which our Ambassador,  Mr Harry,  has to help him in the United Nations. I join most enthusiastically with the honourable member in complimenting the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  on the way in which he handled himself at the United Nations. It was a very proud moment for me, as an Australian, to see our Minister for Foreign Affairs being elected by an overwhelming majority as Vice-President of the United Nations General Assembly. He spoke very well. I cannot recall anything in his speech to which I could have taken umbrage. I am sure that my co-delegate joins me when I say that I felt proud to be an Australian at seeing our Minister discharging his responsibilities in a splendid, dignified and efficient manner. 
Leaving party politics to one side, I say that the present Minister for Foreign Affairs represented Australia extremely well at the United Nations. He is highly regarded. From watching his meanderings- perhaps that is not a very good word- through the halls of the United Nations, it is obvious that he is well liked, highly respected and highly regarded by the leaders of all the other important countries which are represented at the United Nations General Assembly. He was one of the few men who had the good sense or political  nous  to detect the very fine trend in American public opinion which eventually resulted in the election of  President  Carter. I thought at the time I heard the Minister predict a victory for  President  Carter that it was a rather bold prediction because from what I could read in the newspapers and from what I heard on radio and television I felt, at one stage, it was very unlikely that there would be a change in the presidency. Not only did our Minister for Foreign Affairs accurately predict the outcome of the presidential election but also he had the acute good sense to invite to the Australian Ambassador's residence for an official dinner the man he predicted would become the Secretary of State to the new  President. 
I had the great pleasure and honour of sitting opposite  Mr Cyrus  Vance. I am one of the few Australians who is in a position to say that he has talked with the present Secretary of State. We met other people whose identity it is perhaps best for me, as the representative of the electorate of Hindmarsh, not to mention. But I found them extremely interesting. They found me interesting too. I think they were pleased to learn from me that I would never be Prime Minister of Australia and, consequently, that my views about multinational corporations need not worry them greatly. They showed a sort of gentle amusement about what I said ought to be done for multinational corporations. I cannot speak too highly of the work which was carried out by my co-delegate who was the leader of our parliamentary delegation of two, the honourable member for Diamond Valley. 
I was his  deputy,  yes, but at no stage did he pull rank on me. He behaved almost as if I were his equal. He was a good, generous, interesting, loyal and able companion. We loyally supported each other on every issue which came up for discussion at the briefing sessions for our delegation at the United Nations. We attended those briefing sessions religiously. I cannot remember any of us missing any of those briefing sessions. We found them extremely helpful. I would like to think that the officials meant what they said when they told us that they found our presence, remarks and advice extremely helpful to them. The honourable member for Diamond Valley is quite right in saying that the Parliament ought to pay far greater attention than it has hitherto done to the work of the United Nations General Assembly. It is the most important overseas body with which this Parliament and Australia are associated. Parliament ought not treat trips to the United Nations as mere junkets or as an excuse to get away from Australia. Such trips can be extremely important to the Parliament and to the delegates who represent the Parliament if they give to such trips the kind of attention which they deserve. 
I must compliment our delegation on the esteem in which they are held, particularly by Third World countries. It is quite apparent, from attending the various committees of the United Nations General Assembly, that our representatives are highly regarded by other countries, especially the countries with which we have to deal commercially, economically and perhaps in a geographical sense. It is a disadvantage to the Parliament that it sends only 2 delegates when, I think, there are 7 committees. Most of the other countries which are smaller than we are see this occasion as important enough to send more parliamentary advisers than we send. Not only do they send more, but also they send the delegations in waves so that more than one group attending each year can get the benefit of United Nations briefings and understanding. 
-The honourable member raises an important question. Although I am not a candidate for the next trip, I believe it is very important that someone who attended this year's conference ought automatically be an adviser to next year's conference- that is one member from each side- so that the parliamentary groups can get the benefit of the experience of the previous delegates. It ought to be a condition that somebody who attended one year should automatically be part of the larger delegation which attends in following years. 
Staff is brought from other countries. Doctor Merrillees was brought from London to attend the United Nations General Assembly. Delegates were brought from Chicago and another delegate was brought from Jamacia. I understand that a delegate was brought from another country which is a long way away. This is a good idea, It is not necessary to have the full complement of delegates which we need for that year in New York for the United Nations General Assembly meetings. 
If we are to call on vigorous young men-  Dr Merrillees  appeared to be one of them- to come from London to the United Nations for up to 4 months we ought not to expect them to come without their wives. We should offer them the opportunity of bringing their wives to New York and we should pay for their economy class travel, which is how the parliamentary advisers travel. 
In relation to economy class fare, I cannot support too strongly the view of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who has said that Department of Foreign Affairs officials ought to travel overseas on economy class fares. They should not expect to be given first class fares when members of the national Parliament are quite prepared to travel overseas on economy class fares. That is something about which I feel very strongly. 
The briefings were of general interest, but of particular interest to me were the briefings given on the law of the sea. I had only vaguely heard the term 'law of the sea', and as Ambassador Harry unfolded the complexities of the subject and the enormous consequences it has for the people of this country, it seemed sad to me that this Parliament had never bothered to have a full dress debate on the law of the sea. Australia has a particular interest in the law of the sea in that, prima facie at any rate, we have a claim on part of the Antarctic. If the law of the sea is to be applied in relation to the 200-mile limit from the shoreline of our own country and its territories, Australia's relationship to the Antarctic and our interest in the riches of the seas surrounding our Antarctic territories ought to be given special attention on its own. Of course, one cannot look at it on its own because we have many thousands of miles of coastline which are also affected.  Mr Harry  is very well versed in the law of the sea. I did not think I could ever become interested in this thing called the law of the sea until I got a little way into the subject, when I found that it was most fascinating. 
That brings me to my next point. I believe that the Minister ought to give consideration to sending one observer from each side of the House to the conferences on the law of the sea. I do not think there ought to be a large delegation of the type for which I have indicated my support so far as the United Nations General Assembly is concerned, but the Parliament ought to have some first-hand knowledge of the law of the sea. I query the advisability of our Minister for Foreign Affairs sticking so closely to WEOG- the West European and Others Group- in the United Nations. We have a much greater affinity with the Association of South East Asian Nations, or perhaps some other new group with close geographical and economic interests, than we have with WEOG. It seemed a bit absurd to me that when we cast a vote on the issue of the French islands off the African coast and, instead of following a policy which would have been more in keeping with Australia's best interests, we slavishly followed the policy laid down by 
WEOG, which is so much further away from these islands than we are. We ought to be independent. 
However, part of the trouble is that our delegation at the United Nations seems to be too much concerned with getting on to committees and being elected to various positions of importance at the United Nations. When it is asked to give an opinion on whether there is some national advantage in attaching ourselves to a grouping that is more in keeping with our geographical position than WEOG, the delegation immediately colours its advice to us by considering how the new grouping will affect its chances of being elected to some committee. We ought to pay less attention to committees and more attention to the welfare of Australia. Australia is in the fortunate position of being trusted by the representatives of the Third World. They respect us. I repeat that they trust us to a point where we ought never to do anything to betray that trust. It is a trust and respect that has not been built up overnight but over many years. We ought to value it and be proud of it, and continue to act in the same way as the present Minister did when he was at the United Nations. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
This afternoon I spoke in the debate on the motion to take note of the report of the Australian Delegation to the United Nations General Assembly. According to information given to me, an officer of the Department of Foreign Affairs who was listening to my remarks about first class travel for public servants, especially those in the Department of Foreign Affairs, thought that it would be a good thing to spend his time during working hours on penning a few words about himself and his colleagues. I have now the result of that hour of toil. It is a song called 'Song of the Public Service ', and is as follows: 
We're happy little vegetables with our BA degrees, 
We allow ourselves to vegetate with breaks for cups of tea, 
Because we love our circus life 
We all enjoy backstabbing strife, 
It puts a rise in every cheque. 
It is to be sung to the tune of 'We're happy little Vegemites'. Then he thought it would be a good idea, since I had mentioned first class travel for public servants, to have something to say about this important subject. This was the result from this $ 1 5,000 a year public servant: 
I like aeroplane travel, 
First-class travel for me, I like it for lunch and I like it for tea its so much better than e-con-o-my, The quality's high as the name would imply: it supplies us free boozeone more good reason why, 
I like travelling first-class Aeroplane first-class for me. 
It is sung to the tune of 'I like Aeroplane Jelly'. I have read this little ditty because it represents the cynical approach which some public servants have towards the perks of office. It reminds me too that the people who have to pay for first class travel warrants for public servants are the ordinary taxpayers. 
I am told that 87 per cent of all travellers out of Australia travel economy class and most of the balance are public servants or people who are travelling on someone else's account. If it is good enough for private members of this Parliament and for their wives to travel economy class, as most of us do, it is good enough for public servants to travel economy class too. I am prepared to support publicly the attitude that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has taken towards bringing these people back to the field. It is about time - 
-No I was not. Never at any time did I say that public servants ought to be given the right to travel first class when they went overseas when the ordinary taxpayers whose money provides them with their flash salaries and their rich superannuation schemes and the like are, of course, the ones who have to travel economy class. 
I would say something else. I am told that under Public Service union regulations a public servant is not allowed to travel more than 12 hours without having a rest for the night. Yet he demands first class travel. How many members of this Parliament who have travelled overseas have been able to enjoy the right or the luxury of first class travel with no more than 12 hours flying at any one time? How many of us have travelled from here to London in one trip subject only to stopping over for refuelling. How many of us have travelled from here to New York or to San Francisco without breaking our journey? We do it and think nothing of it. We travel economy class and so do our wives. I am sick and tired of the way public servants seem to elevate themselves to a position of importance far above the ordinary taxpayer whose money it is that has to find-  Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the concept of annual leave loading was designed to ensure that employees would not suffer a reduction in income during periods of annual leave on account of lost overtime earnings. 
Is it also a fact that the salaries of public servants above Class 8 include a loading to compensate for the fact that they receive no extra pay for working overtime and that this loaded salary is the amount they receive while on annual leave. 
Did all public servants receive the same annual leave loading in (a) 1974 and (b) 1975 and was this an equivalent amount to the average weekly earnings, even though public servants above Class 8 were not suffering any loss of income during their periods of annual leave. 
Can he verify whether the last Determination of the Public Service Arbitrator relating to annual leave loading had the effect of increasing the value of the loading payable to those public servants who suffer no loss of income during periods of annual leave and of reducing the monetary value of the leave loading payable to those who, but for the loading, could have suffered loss of income. 
Did the Government support the change; if so, will he undertake to re-examine the effect of the change with a view to restoring the value of leave loading to those who lose by the change. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
What was the ratio of students going on to tertiary education to children of the relevant age of the population in the years 1930, 1940, 1950, 1960, and in each year since 1960. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
Does Regulation 146AQ of the Conciliation and Arbitration Regulations entitle a candidate for office in a registered organisation to appoint a scrutineer in cases where the rules of the organisation preclude candidates for a particular office from appointing a scrutineer. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Does Regulation 146AP of the Conciliation and Arbitration Regulations permit a Returning Officer to commence the counting of a ballot before the closing date of such ballot in those cases in which the rules of a registered organisation permit counting to commence before the ballot closes. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
What steps have been taken to establish an Occupational Health Service for Australian Government employees? 
If no steps have been taken in the matter, will he examine the proposals, which I formulated early in 1975, to reduce the incidence of industrial disease in the Australian Public Service as well as the rehabilitation of those affected thereby? 
Does he favour the establishment of mandatory occupational safety and health standards being made applicable to all employees of the Australian Government, the Australian Government Authorities and Australian Government contractors, employees engaged in the Territories and interstate trade and commerce? 
Has his attention been drawn to the enormous cost to industry, as well as the loss in production generally, caused by the present high incidence of industrial accidents and disease in Australia? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
What are the local allowances paid to each Head of Mission and what is the component of such local allowances to cover the employment of such persons as butlers, valets, chefs, kitchen staff, waiters and waitresses, 'nannies', governesses or tutors, commissionaires, official hostesses, watchmen, guards, chauffeurs, gardeners and any other staff employed at the taxpayers' expense in each country in which Australia is represented by an Ambassador, High Commissioner or Consul-General. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
1 ) What are the dates and amounts of each increase made to the tax-free allowances payable to Australian Prime Ministers since 1950. 
Is an Australian Prime Minister now required to meet any of the expenses associated with the cost of (a) staff, (b) food, (c) liquor and (d) maintenance of (i) the Lodge and ( ii ) Kirribilli House. If so. what are they. 
3 ) What has been the cost of each of the items referred to in part (2) for each year since 1950. 
Has there been any change in a Prime Minister's personal obligation to use his tax-free allowances to meet any of these expenses since 1950. If so. what were the changes, and when were they made. 
I oppose the clause with which we are now dealing. The clause of course takes us back to the exemption provisions of proposed new section  45D.  The exemption contained in proposed new section  45D  states: 
A person shall not be taken to contravene, or to be involved in a contravention of, sub-section ( 1 ) by engaging in conduct where the dominant purpose for which the conduct is engaged in is substantially related to- 
the remuneration, conditions of employment, hours of work or working conditions of that person or of  another person employed by an employer of that person; or 
an employer of that person having terminated, or taken action to terminate, the employment of that person or of another person employed by that employer. 
Those are the only exemptions. One would imagine that they are the only kinds of issues that can lead to genuine industrial grievances. Whoever drew up this legislation obviously did not know much, or really anything at all, about industrial relations. They seem to have behaved as though there has never been an industrial stoppage over a demarcation dispute, employment of non-unionists or the employment of people who have failed to observe a majority decision of the policy making bodies of their unions, people who in industrial circles are called scabs. The fact is that a great many of our stoppages are due to demarcation disputes- far too many. But we ought to understand that some demarcation disputes are ones that we ought to support. Let us take some examples. Suppose we had an employer who was seeking to man a port with members of the Australian Workers Union. In fact there are ports around the Australian coastline where stevedoring work is carried out by the AWU. In many cases the wages paid to members of the AWU who do stevedoring work are nowhere near as high as the wages which would apply if the same work were carried out by another union. 
When I was Secretary of the AWU Jim Healy and Roch, the gentlemen to whom the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  presented the  Illawarra Star Cup  way back in the good old days, came to see me to point out that AWU members handling cargo and shipments of various kinds at Whyalla ought to have been covered by the Waterside Workers Federation of Australia because the workers could get some quite extraordinarily higher amount than the AWU could get for those men under the AWU award. I said to Jim Healy: 'You can have these men for one year and I want you to give me an undertaking now that if you have not got them the full waterside workers rates within one year you will hand them back to me and not hand them over to Ernie Thornton', who had political ties with Jim Healy. Jim Healy was the sort of person with whom one could make that sort of deal and know that it would be honoured. One year to the very day Healy and Roch walked into my office. I had no idea why they wanted to see me until Healy said: 'We have come to hand the men back to you. We have failed. If we could have had them for only another 6 weeks we could have succeeded'. I let them have the men for another 6 weeks and  Mr Justice  Piper gave the workers the waterside workers rates of pay. They have had them ever since. If I had been typical of so many union secretaries who place union membership above union benefits I would have held onto those workers at Whyalla but as it was I handed them over to the other union. If I had hung on to them the waterside workers would have had a lot of support from those people in trying to get into the wharf, as a result of which there would have been a demarcation dispute. 
The same thing happened at Leigh Creek when Wells and Idries Williams of the Miners Federation tried to capture Leigh Creek. I held on to it, but only by being able to get the correct rates of pay. There are demarcation disputes between the Storemen and Packers Union and the shop assistants' union, with the storemen having on their side the fact that their award provides for a much higher rate than does the shop assistants award. There are demarcation disputes between the Builders Labourers Federation and the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union over who shall control dogmen, with the builders labourers being able to get a quite substantial amount more under their award than the metal trades workers can get under theirs. On the face of it a demarcation dispute is about union membership, but in reality it is a question of getting decent rates of pay. That is the kind of demarcation dispute that one cannot criticise. I believe that a person who has scabbed upon a decision taken by a properly constituted pOliCy making organ of his union has no right to be treated as a clean skin. The person who has carried out the obligations of his union leadership has every right to refuse to work with such a person and he has every right to refuse to work with a freeloader or a ticket dodger, as some unions would call them. 
It is not possible to have any industrial dispute at all without inflicting considerable damage on someone. One does not win until the damage one inflicts upon people becomes so great that they cannot bear it any longer. It is only then that one wins. This is why unions say that they should have the right to have secondary boycotts. What is the use of the printers at the  Sydney Morning Herald  going on strike if the Murdoch Press is going to print the  Herald's  newspaper for it? The Murdoch Press would have the capacity to go on printing aU the Fairfax publications from the  Mirror  printery forever without having any difficulties in respect of either labour or machinery. Obviously therefore the proper thing for the employees of the Murdoch Press is to put a boycott on any attempt by the Fairfax Press to print newspapers in the Murdoch establishment. 
This would be an act that would be within the ambit of the penal provisions in this legislation. What union m Australia does the Government believe could afford to pay the $250,000 penalty, if the maximum penalty were applied? There is no union that could do that by way of cash unless it sold up its properties. There would not be many unions which could stand more than five or six fines of $250,000, even if they sold up their properties. What then? Does the Government think the unions would be prepared to sell up all their properties and allow the Government to have all their assets? Of course not. At that stage we would be reaching a state of civil war because organised labour would have to resort to direct action and to violence in order to survive. All of us will fight when we reach a point when we can go no further into a corner. A kangaroo will not fight until the dogs drive it into a corner of the fence or until it can go no further. Then, and only then, will it stand up and fight. And stand up and fight the trade union movement will be forced to do if the provisions of this legislation are applied. If the Government does not intend to apply the provisions, why have them there? I warn the Government that if it attempts to apply them and to enforce them it will bring this country to the brink of civil war and when that comes - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Will the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  say what the position of the Australian Council of Trade Unions or the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations will be in the event of the Bureau acting in accordance with what I interpret the agreement to be but which it appears the ACTU, CAGEO and the Federal unions do not interpret the agreement to be, namely, that the Bureau will have all of the powers presently possessed by the Arbitration Inspectorate to process the pains and penalties of the existing Conciliation and Arbitration Act? In the event of this occurring- that is to say, unions being prosecuted for strikes against bans clauses in awards, if the ACTU and the unions concerned then refuse to carry out the agreement in respect of the Bureau on the ground that it is doing things they did not believe it would do, and thus put themselves in the same court as ACSPA is now, will they be allowed to continue to sit as members of the NLCC? 
The announcement of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  that he has agreed to now limit the Bill to transferring the present powers of the inspectorate to the proposed Industrial Relations Bureau will satisfy no one who cares to examine the pains, penalties and processes available to the inspectorate under the existing Act. Let me begin by quoting an extract from the statement of the 
Australian Council of Trade Unions which was read at its conference with the Minister on 1 1 May 1977. It stated: 
First, if the Government wishes to put the responsibility for dealing with the existing pains and penalties and processes into the hands of a body which they wish to designate as an industrial relations bureau- and there is no explicit or implicit addition to those existing provisions or processes- the trade union movement, while regarding such a move as unnecessary, would offer no objection. 
That decision, incidentally, was adopted by the Special Conference of Federal Unions held on 18 May 1977 but it is important to mention that the Australian Council for Salaries and Professional Associations rejected the proposition outright and would have nothing to do with it. It would not touch it with a 40-foot pole. In order to make the record complete I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the full text of the ACTU statement. 
I do not know whether I heard correctly, but if I did I am appalled at what the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  has just said. He has virtually said that the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations have given an undertaking to accept this deal on the Bureau as pan of the price they are prepared to pay for becoming members of the National Labour Consultative Council. That must be the inference to be drawn from what the Minister has said. Why exclude the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations because it will not agree to the transfer of the powers that now reside with the Arbitration Inspectorate to the Industrial Relations Bureau, when the Government will allow the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations and the Australian Council of Trade Unions to have that benefit? 
I would like to know from the Minister whether what has been done has been done with the approval of the ACTU and CAGEO. Did those organisations know that ACSPA would be excluded from the National Labour Consultative Council? Did the ACTU and CAGEO, either explicitly or implicity, indicate that they would be prepared to adhere to the deal for allowing the Bureau to exercise all of the pains, penalties and processes that now exist as part of the price they would pay to become members of the NLCC? I cannot believe that that is the kind of deal that those 2 peak organisations would enter into. In fact, if this is the case, I think it is an appalling thing for them to do. I do not believe that they did it. I would like the Minister to say whether those organisations were in on this deal or whether it was something imposed upon them without consultation. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
What is the percentage of employees in the workforce who work a standard working week of (a) 40 hours, (b) 363/4 hours; and (c) 35 hours or less. 
I support what has been said by my colleague the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  I do not know for the life of me why the Government wants the Bureau to be independent unless the Government intends to appoint someone who through his independence will be able to continue to follow Liberal Party philosophy after the Liberal Party loses the next election. Honourable members opposite should not laugh because they will lose the next election and it is important to us that the activities of the Arbitration Inspectorate, which will be taken over by the Bureau, will be subject to the policy decisions of the new Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I believe that the honourable member for Gellibrand when he becomes the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations ought to be able to direct how the Arbitration Inspectorate, which then will be called the Industrial Relations Bureau, shall carry out its functions. 
After all, what has the Government got to worry about? While the Government is in office the present Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  will be in a position to give the Bureau directions as I did when I was the Minister. While the Government is in office it will have the right to force the Bureau to reflect Government thinking and policies, and what is wrong with that? The government of the day has a perfect right to direct the Bureau just as I had a right, which I exercised, when I was the Minister. However, if the direction of the Bureau is to be taken out of the hands of the Minister it means that the Government is going to perpetuate the kind of philosophy that the person chosen to be the director of the Bureau will be known to possess before the appointment is made. 
Names have been put to me as possible appointees to the job. I have heard that  Mr Justice  Alley might be appointed and if that is so then the second most senior member of the firm of Moule, Hamilton and Denham would not appeal to me as being a particularly good sort of appointment to be given independent powers when the next Labor Government gains office. I have heard that it might even be  Mr Tony  Macken. I could not think of anything worse for the trade union movement than to have our friend  Mr Tony  Macken sitting there as director of the Industrial Relations Bureau and being completely independent of the people's elected government. It may even be  Mr Ed  Taylor who I am told is the hot tip for the job. Judging by what he did in the recent wage indexation case when he found it important to reject the decisions given by the rest of the Bench in order to follow more closely the view put by the Government, I am beginning to think that perhaps he will be the Director of the Bureau. I could not think of anything much more disastrous than having  Mr Ed  Taylor appointed as the Director of the Bureau except, perhaps, the appointment of  Mr Tony  Macken. 
Does the Government feel that it is losing power already? It must, if it can read the temperature outside. If it is, it has no moral right to say that it will give the Bureau complete independence so that when the honourable member for Gellibrand becomes the Minister for Labor he will not have the power to direct the Bureau to implement government policy in respect of industrial relations. If the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations is genuine about this legislation he will not mind altering it in the way suggested by the honourable member for Gellibrand. He will say: 'Fair enough, we will leave the Bureau under the direction of the Minister as the Inspectorate now is'. Really it is the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who causes most of the trouble in the industrial relations area. The Minister himself is an excellent person left to his own resources. I often think that he is basically too good to be a Liberal. He ought never to have been a member of the Liberal Party. But he is not allowed to be himself because he has an arrogant, over-bearing Prime Minister-I have also had experience in this field- who stands over him and compels him to do things he knows are wrong. Therefore, he ought not to have anything to fear in keeping the Bureau under the control of the Minister. He would then be able to tell the Director of the Bureau to prosecute the unions, to send them to gaol and to fine them $500 a day every time they commit a breach of the bans clause. All the things the Prime Minister would like to see carried out could be done simply by the Minister giving a direction along those lines to the Director of the Bureau. 
If this is what the Government wants- we all know that is what it wants- it can achieve that by retaining the present provisions, allowing the Director to be under ministerial control. If the Minister does not make the change for which we are asking and we find ourselves saddled with a director who is biased against the trade union movement as we know the Director to be appointed will be, then I make it quite clear that the Labor Government will not consider itself bound to continue the Industrial Relations Bureau. We will abolish the Bureau and with it the Director whom the present Government appoints. We will be able to do that. There is no way under the Constitution or law of contract that a government is required to keep on a man after the position to which he was appointed has been abolished. We will not accept an industrial relations bureau which has the powers to impose the pains, penalties and processes of the existing Act when it has been established by our political enemies to do the dirty work for the employers. Of course, that will be the prime purpose in life of the Director of the Bureau. The Minister is very foolish in trying to introduce this new element into the agreement. This is not provided for in the existing legislation. The existing processes do not allow the head of the Arbitration Inspectorate to exercise his functions and powers independently of government policy. To insist upon giving independence to the Director of the Bureau is a very serious breach of the agreement and cannot be said to be in conformity with existing processes. 
You have been very good,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  and I hope to repay you when the redistribution submissions are put in. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- I have heard of your suggestions. 
I support the Australian Labor Party's spokesman on this matter. The Arbitration Inspectorate works extremely well within the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. The fact that very few prosecutions are being launched against employers is not the fault of the Inspectorate. The Inspectorate very properly is reflecting the views of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  and the Minister is reflecting the views of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  When I was Minister for Labor and Immigration, the Inspectorate was taking proceedings against employers at a rate of knots. I was very proud of it and pleased with the way it was carrying out its functions. I believe that we do not have enough arbitration inspectors. I notice from the latest annual report of the Inspectorate that even fewer are employed now than when I was Minister and when I was Minister we did not have as many as my ultimate goal required. 
In fact, I often wonder what is going to happen to the Minister's Department, as I look at the various segments of the Department that have been stripped away from him during the last 18 months. He has lost the immigration division. 1 think that that is probably a good thing, because immigration ought to be kept as a separate entity. In fact, I think it is wrong that the Department of Immigration does not have more of the old Department of Immigration than it now has. He has lost the productivity units that used to be attached to the Department. He is shortly to lose the Commonwealth Employment Service, which is to be run by a statutory body. He is now to lose the Inspectorate. It will not be long before the Department of Productivity-  Sir Alan  Cooley is a pretty good operator- puts up to the Prime Minister a powerful case pointing out that it is impossible to have the Department of Productivity unless it has control of the National Employment and Training scheme and the apprenticeship training scheme. It will want a lot more of the Department. I can see the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations being left with nothing but industrial relations. In view of what is now proposed, it will have a very tiny function; but it will make a hopeless mess of it because it will be forced to work within parameters that are not viable. 
I do not believe that an inspectorate or a Bureau ought to be taking action against people who go on strike or against employers who are involved in lock-outs. I believe that an employer should have a perfect right to lock out his employees, if that is necessary to win an industrial dispute, without suffering any penalty. By the same token, I believe that an employee organisation should have the right to engage in a strike of whatever duration is necessary or if it is found to be necessary to win a collective bargaining point. We ought not to be using the Inspectorate for implementing penalties against lock-outs and strikes. The penalties with which the Inspectorate ought to be concerned are breaches of the awards in the ordinary sense. It ought not to be permissible for the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to write a bans clause into an award. Indeed, the Act ought to be altered by the insertion of a section prohibiting the Commission from inserting a bans clause in an award. 
Looking at that award- that is, an award without a bans clause- I believe that both the employers and the employees ought to be bound to observe every other provision of that award. If that award stipulates minimum rates of pay, minimum penalty rates, overtime, shift allowances, annual leave, sick leave, paid public holidays, safety regulations and the like- it can cover a broad range of things- it ought to be an offence punishable by the Inspectorate, whether the offence is committed by the employee or by the employer. If the award says that an employee shall clock on at a given time, shall not leave work until a certain hour and shall be required to present himself for work at a certain hour and the employee does not do that, or if an employee falls to observe the safety regulations incorporated in an award, the Inspectorate ought to get down on the employee, take him to court, sue him and fine him. The same ought to be done to an employer who does not pay the correct wages or does not observe the holiday and other working conditions of the award. He should be taken to court and dealt with. But we ought not to be using the Inspectorate to punish people for going on strike or for lock-outs. That has nothing to do and should have nothing to do with the Inspectorate and ought not to be in the Act. 
The Australian Labor Party's policy on this point is perfectly plain. The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  is looking rather surprised that I should be saying that lock-outs ought not to be punishable. When we wrote the platform of the Party it was pointed out to me that, if we are going to be consistent, when we say that people ought to be allowed to go on strike and that there should be no penalties against strike action we ought to include lockouts in the platform- and we did so. A person who lived in the days of the John Brown lockoutI suppose no one from those days is left now- would be staggered to think that he could pick up the Labor Party's platform and find that lock-outs have been made exempt from penal provisions; but we were being fair about the matter. We said: 'Let the same rule, the same law, apply to both employers and employees. Both ought to be free to exercise this power in the course of wage negotiations if they believe that it will help'. I support most strongly the remarks of the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  He is absolutely correct in what he says. The Inspectorate ought to be active in carrying out the requirements of the Act. 
I shall quote just another requirement of the Act. I quote it because it is against the union movement. The Act makes it clear that trade unions have to keep proper records of their financial transactions. They have to present balance sheets. They have to keep a proper record of membership in a membership roll. They have to keep certain records of union elections. Ballot papers have to be retained for a year after an election has been held. Any union that does not do all of those things ought to be prosecuted. If I were the Minister I would say to my inspectorate if it was handling the matter: 'Not only do I want you to get right after this particular union but also I want you to get the best counsel you can, take the union to the Industrial Court and tell the court to impose the maximum penalty in order that its decision will be a deterrent against other unions breaking the Act in the same way'. That is an entirely different thing from breaking the law in respect of striking. There should be no law against strikes and lock-outs. A law against strikes and lock-outs is a bad law. It ought not be recognised by anyone. It ought to be defied and treated with contempt until it is finally discarded and thrown away. I ask honourable members to look at all the bad laws made through the centuries. They all have been broken by people ignoring them. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
1 ) How many persons have been invited to Canberra to be present at official functions for Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II. 
Who are they, whom do they represent and who selected each of them to be invited. 
) What will be the cost of this exercise. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation on the ground that I have been misrepresented. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
What is the percentage of (a) single women, (b) married women under 20 years of age, (c) married women from 20 to 30 years of age, (d) married women from 30 to 35 years of age, (e) married women from 35 years of age to 45 years of age and (f) 45 years of age and over, included in the total employees of the Australian work force. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice, on 26 April 1 977: 
On what date were import quotas lifted following the 25 percent tariff reduction in 1973. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
Was it through an omission in the drafting or a decision of policy that section 8 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act left the salary and allowances of the  President  and the  Deputy  Presidents of the Commission linked with the decaying Australian Industrial Court whilst the jurisdiction of that Court was transferred to Judges of the Federal Court for whom Schedule 4 of the Remuneration and Allowances Amendment Act (No. 2) 1976 provides a higher remuneration. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice, on 22 February 1977: 
Is it a fact that in the event of the Government abolishing 
the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, 
the Australian Industrial Court, (c) the Federal Court of Bankruptcy, (d) the Family Court of Australia and (e) the Supreme Courts of the Territories, the Government is under an obligation to honour the original commission of the Judges until such time as they die, resign or reach retirement age. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 26 April 1977: 
What was the value of irrevocable letters of credit established through the Reserve Bank during each month between January 1970 and December 1975. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
1 ) Who are the present members of the Australian Population and Immigration Council. 
When was it reconstituted. 
How many committees of the Council have been set up, and what are their titles and areas of responsibility. 
Who are the members of each of these committees. 
How many times has (a) the Council and (b) its committees met since the Council's reconstitution. 
How many times has each member of (a) the Council and (b) each committee been present at such meetings. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
What were the amounts spent in each of the last 6 years on (a) advertising, (b) promotional activities and (c) incentive schemes to attract skilled migrants to settle in Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs the following question, upon notice, on 3 May 1977: 
1 ) What are the special circumstances which determine whether a 'reply paid' envelope is provided to Service pensioners and applicants for Service pension. 
2 ) What is the estimated saving to Consolidated Revenue in discontinuing the previous practice of providing a 'reply paid ' envelope to Service pensioners and applicants for Service pension. 
asked the Treasurer, upon  notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) Will he indicate which portion of the new superannuation scheme of Commonwealth employees is financed by ( a ) members ' contribution and ( b ) the Australian taxpayer. 
Did the committee which first reported on the new superannuation scheme reach unanimous agreement on the various aspects of the scheme; if not, on what aspects did it disagree. 
What would be the estimated cost of the scheme over the period of 1990 if there is a continued rate of inflation of 12 per cent per annum. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 18 February 1977: 
Does he know of any public servants attached to his Department above the equivalent of a Third Division Officer (a) Class 5, (b) Class 6, (c) Class 7, (d) Class 8, (e) Class 9, (f) Class 10 and (g) Class 1 1 who has not been issued with a diplomatic passport while representing Australia overseas. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 March 1 977: 
Will he take steps to ensure that Australian groups who are journeying overseas on fares funded by the Australian Government are required to travel by Qantas Airways Ltd. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) What is the cost to the public of copies of judgments of the High Court of Australia. 
) When were the costs last increased and what were they previously. 
What was the cost to a member of the public of the judgments involving: 
the Seas and Submerged Lands Act 
b ) the Territory Senators case and 
McKinlay'scase. 
How does this compare with costs of judgments of other Courts such as the Supreme Court of New South Wales. 
Can steps be taken to enable copies of judgments of the High Court to be available at a reasonable cost, say $5 maximum, on or soon after the day of delivery. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Does he have any statistics to indicate which countries have a higher percentage of married women among its employed persons in the workforce than is the case in Australia; if so, what are the countries. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 26 April 1977: 
What was the number of prosecutions launched by the Arbitration Inspectorate against employers in each month during the period 1 January 1973 to 31 December 1976. 
Before I deal with the provisions of the Bill, I want to touch upon the manner in which it was introduced. This Bill was deliberately kept away from the Opposition by the Government. The Bill was prepared many weeks ago at the time of the air traffic controllers' dispute. The Government, if it wanted to, could have given this Bill to the Opposition for proper consideration of its contents when the Parliament resumed on Tuesday, but it deliberately withheld it from the Parliament. When a government withholds from the Opposition, it is also withholding from the Parliament. It withheld a provision that it intended to introduce on this day of this week so that the Parliament- not just the Opposition but the Parliament- would not have the opportunity to study the contents of the Bill, would not have the opportunity to discover whether the Bill had objectionable matter tucked away in what might otherwise be seemingly innocuous provisions, provisions against which even members of the Country Party might rebel were they in a position to examine the legislation properly. 
No one knows what this legislation means. It has been impossible to examine it in the short time that it has been available to the Parliament. I keep emphasising the Parliament and I remind everybody that it is the Parliament. It is not just the Opposition members of Parliament who have been cheated by the Government through not being given copies of the BDI. Members of the Government back benches have been cheated too because they have been asked to put their heads in the noose, without knowing what is in the nose bag until the noose is pulled tight. That is no way in which to treat the national Parliament of Australia. The Parliament of Australia is the voice of the people of Australia. When the Parliament of Australia is treated with the utter contempt with which the Government has treated it on this occasion, the Government is registering its utter contempt for the people of the Parliament. The people who sent us here. We are the people, and the Government ought to remember occasionally that the Parliament is the people of Australia. The Government is not the people of Australia. 
The executive government of this country represents in the main only one man, the man who sits at the head of the Cabinet table, and the situation has never been very different since Federation. It is time that the Parliament started telling the executive arm of government and the man who controls the executive arm of government that this is a democracy. We are not living in Hitler's Germany. We ought not to be treated as though we were living in Nazi Germany. This is a country which has always passed for a parliamentary democracy, yet what do we find? We find that a Bill which alters the law of the country which has stood the test of time since the country was colonised is now to be drastically altered without notice, without an opportunity for the people's Parliament to examine properly what the Bill provides. This has been done deliberately and with a callous, cavalier and studied disregard for the rights of the Parliament and of the people of Australia who elected this Parliament. 
Why do I say so definitely and so dogmatically that this legislation has been deliberately withheld from the Parliament? I will direct the attention of honourable members to some of the straws in the wind. When the air traffic controllers ' strike was in progress a couple of months ago the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  made a public statement that the Government had prepared legislation which it would bring in as an urgent measure if the dispute was not settled by a certain time. So we know from what the Minister for Transport said a couple of months ago that the Bill had been prepared then. Let me remind the House of something else. Not only do we now know that the Bill was prepared a couple of months ago; we also know from the remarks made by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  that it was the Government's intention to bring the Bill into the Parliament today. That was the Government's intention on the very day on which the Minister told the Parliament that on Friday of this week the Government intended to start standing down people at the Redfern Mail Exchange if they had not settled the dispute. The Minister had no authority to stand down the people at the Redfern Mail Exchange in the manner that this Bill proposes when he told us on Tuesday of this week that he intended to do it. He knew then what the Bill was. He knew then that the Bill would be introduced into the Parliament today. He knew then that there was no intention on the part of the Government to allow any member of the Parliament who is not a member of the Executive Council to see what the Executive Council was going to browbeat the Parliament into letting go through the Parliament without adequate debate or consideration. 
When we have a law that has remained in the present form of the Public Service Act since Federation and we alter it in the dramatic way that the Government is now proposing, the Government has a duty to the people of Australia as well as to the Public Service of Australia to allow the Parliament of Australia to know fully what it is proposing to do and to have the intricate and complex provisions of the legislation put to legal examination so that the Opposition can come back into the Parliament next week with the benefit of at least one week's mature consideration of what the Bill proposes. I have never known any measure of this kind to be introduced into the Parliament and put through in one day. It is a tradition of the Parliament that the Government introduces Bills of this kind, which drastically alter the law as it has stood for more than 70 years, and then gives the Opposition a week in which to study the legislation and gives it the opportunity to move amendments in Committee. We know from experience that the Executive Council is not the fount of all wisdom and it is conceivable that out of 126 elected members of the Parliament one, two or 22 members might be able to suggest in the Committee stage some amendments that will remove some of the obnoxious features of the legislation. But how can the Parliament do justice to its obligation to the people of this country in the Committee stage if we are not allowed even to look at the Bill or to have a Committee or Caucus meeting to understand what is in it? 
I have been asked to stand up and make this speech without any warning whatsoever. I was not told that I was to speak until 10 minutes ago. I saw nothing of the Bill until it was introduced by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  The method of its introduction raises a rather interesting quirk in the procedures of the Parliament. Whenever before has a Minister been called upon to introduce a Bill dealing with an amendment to an Act that is not under his administration? The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is the Minister in charge of the Public Service, so the Prime Minister is the one who by tradition should have introduced any amendment to the Public Service Act. Is it because the Prime Minister does not know for certain what sort of flack is going to fly around as a consequence of this legislation? He is here in the House; we know that he is here. Why then was the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations brought in here by the scruff of the neck by the Prime Minister and made to introduce the obnoxious legislation which the Prime Minister himself should have introduced if he did his job as Minister in charge of the Public Service? I suggest that it is one of the old trickslet somebody down the line do the dirty work and if it comes off the Prime Minister can come out and say 'There you are; alone I did it', and leak it to the Press that he was the one who proposed it at the Cabinet meeting. If it does not come out right he can leak to the Press that the thing would have been all right except that Tony Street mucked it up. This is clearly what has happened on this occasion. 
From my understanding of this legislation in the few seconds I have had to look at it, it allows any statutory authority or any permanent head to issue a declaration suspending all or some employees of a department for whatever period the authority making the suspension chooses to nominate in the declaration of suspension. Nobody is given a chance to explain what happened. There is no such thing as natural justice. Nobody is charged; nobody is given the right to defend himself and to show why he should not be made the subject of a declaration. There is nothing like that. The old principle of natural justice, the proud pillar of British justice and British common law, has been trampled on. It does not mean a thing to these people in the Government when it suits them. Then, after all or some members of the Public Service have been suspended, either individually or collectively, depending on the declaration, they can be dismissed from the Public Service- full stop. There is no right of appeal. 
-It is a good idea, says the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd),  to sack a member of the Public Service without the right to be heard, without the right of appeal and without the right of protection of promotional opportunities; so that he forfeits all his furlough entitlements, all his recreational leave. The provisions of the Bill are so wide that a member of the Public Service not only is dismissed and not only loses by definition all his remuneration entitlements but also loses the right to any other payments to which he may be entitled under any award or determination. Just to make certain that that award or determination does not prevail in the face of the declaration, the Bill says that wherever there is a conflict between the declaration and the determination of the Public Service Arbitrator or of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission the legislation shall prevail. 
However, just in case something is left out of the Bill because of the short time we have to study it, the Bill also says that the Government may say, in effect: 'If we have not thought of something or if there is something we have in mind, something which we have thought of but which we do not want to let the Parliament know about at this point in time, we are going to cover ourselves by putting in the Bill this provision: 
The Governor-General may make regulations, not inconsistent with this Act prescribing all matters which are necessary or convenient to be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this Act. 
Do not think that a public servant will get any protection or solace from the fact that the regulation must not be inconsistent with the Act, because the Bill is so wide as to embrace almost every possible emergency or contingency that we can dream up. So there is nothing in the Bill that would make a regulation invalid because the Bill has an omnibus application and can be extended to cover anything at all. Therefore, regulations can be churned out to suit a situation suddenly arising, whether it be in the Postal Commission today- which, according to the Minister, is the justification for this legislation- or in any other branch of the Public Service. 
If the Third or Fourth Division officers employed by the Department of Social Security, when the new scheme is introduced whereby unemployment benefits are to be paid fortnightly in arrears instead of fortnightly in advance, find that they are so inundated with work that they cannot carry out their duties and then try to make some protest against doing unreasonable amounts of overtime, they can be dealt with by this legislation in exactly the same way. If I were sitting in the chair at the table now occupied by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications I could sack the  Clerk  of the House because at the moment I do not like the way he is looking at me. Now he is smiling which makes it worse because not only could I suspend him but also I could immediately dismiss him for adding insult to injury. However, this is not funny. I just mention that to illustrate the enormity of the provisions of this legislation. 
If the Government is concerned about a few malcontents at the Redfern Mail Exchange, why did it bring in a Bill that covers employees and officers of the whole Public Service? Why did it bring in a Bill that is wide enough to give me, as Minister for Labour and Immigration, the right to sack Brian Tregillis, the Deputy Head of the Department which, of course, I could do under this BDI? Does the Government intend to sack Al Grassby? 
-It would be a good start, said the honourable member who defeated him for the seat of Riverina. Is that the Government 's intention? I notice that the Bill makes special mention of the fact that the authority has the right to declare a statutory office holder. Let us look at the political overtones of the Bill. The authority, whether it be the Public Service Board or the executive of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, is bound by the Bill to carry out any direction issued to that authority by the Minister administering the authority. The Prime Minister who administers the Public Service Board has the right, by virtue of the Bill, to direct the Public Service Board to sack any person he chooses by first suspending him and then dismissing him. 
-It is not boloney. That provision is in the Bill. The honourable member's interjection illustrates the point I made at the beginning of my speech that he will vote for something of which he is obviously not aware. 
-The honourable member is not.  His  interjection clearly indicates that he did not know that that provision was in the Bill. He did not know that a Minister had the right to move in and direct the Public Service Board first of all to declare and then to dismiss. That provision is in the Bill. Obviously that is something that even the honourable member with all his experience in this place and intelligence did not know. He is an intelligent man or he would not have been a LieutenantColonel in the Army. Even he has not had a chance to discover that what I have just refered to is actually tucked away in the legislation. This Bill is really a ploy by the Government to bring about a confrontation with the trade union movement. 
-No, it is not. It is to bring about a confrontation, and not only with the malcontents in the Redfern Mail Exchange. Wherever anybody is employed by the Government, if it cannot bring about a confrontation by suspending and dismissing the malcontents from the Public Service with all rights and entitlements deprived then it can extend this Bill to the dismissal of somebody else until ultimately it would succeed in getting that confrontation. I warn the Government that it is treading on very dangerous ground when it deliberately courts confrontation on industrial issues. It will hurt people who normally vote for it and support it financially. They will not give the Government much thanks for what it intends to do. They will support the Government while things are going all right but the moment the confrontation leads to a situation in which the Government is seen to be the body responsible for deliberately courting the disaster that will follow from this, then the backlash to the Government will come. 
I warn the Government that not only has it ignored the Parliament in a way that ill befits any Government in any democratic country, it has also ignored the will of the people. It has no mandate to do what it is doing. What it is doing will end in utter disaster not only for Australia and the Government but also - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I join with the other speakers to express my personal regret at the passing of this very great Australian. He was one of the greatest characters and the greatest intellects to sit in this Parliament during the period that 1 have been a memberindeed, not one of the greatest intellects but the greatest intellect. He was an expert on law; he knew a lot more about law than some of the socalled experts in law. He was a great economist; he knew a lot more about economics than the socalled experts in economics. He was a great politician; he knew a lot more about politics than a lot of the so-called experts in politics. He was a great socialist. He was a great Laborite; he was a real Laborite. He came from the ranks, from the working class. He belonged to the working class and never forgot what the working class was all about. He was not a professional Laborite. He was not in the Labor Party for what he could get out of it. He was in the Labor Party for what he could put into it, and for that reason I salute the man and his memory- the memory of a very great Laborite and a very great parliamentarian. 
Oddly enough, and perhaps contrary to the general view of the man, Rex Connor was a very shy person. He was not the bluff, aggressive, truculent person that those who did not know him painted him and believed him to be. He was a very gentle person as well as being a very shy person, but he could not suffer fools gladly. Because he could not suffer fools gladly and would walk away from them or shun their company he was thought to be arrogant and overbearing. But he was none of those things. He was a man of very great integrity. He was very jealous of his good name. He was very jealous of his reputation. He valued that above all other things, and anyone who in any way cast an aspersion on his reputation, on his good name or on his integrity wounded him very deeply. The way to wound Rex Connor was to suggest, even to hint at, the prospect of his doing anything that was wrong or shady or smacked of dishonesty. 
What I liked about Rex Connor was that he was never ashamed to be known as a socialist. He never disguised the fact that the Labor Party is a socialist party, and that is what he wanted it to remain- a socialist party. He often said that once we take away the socialist objective of the Australian Labor Party we destroy the only real difference between the Labor Party and the Liberal Party. He said that if we take away our commitment to the socialist objective we are taking the first step towards a degeneration of Australian politics to the point where there will be no more difference between one major party and the other than there is between the two major parties of the United States of America. For that reason, he always said that it does not matter that the Australian Constitution prevents the socialisation of industry, production, distribution and exchange. That is not the issue. He said that we have to set an objective for the socialisation of industry, production, distribution and exchange, hold on to it fast and educate and agitate for it to the point where the people of Australia will be prepared to alter the Constitution to permit the socialist objective to be implemented. He said that if we as a party were to throw that objective away we would also throw away any intention of wanting the Constitution altered. That was and would have been to him and to all people who believe in the Labor movement a great tragedy. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  very correctly, remarked on the fact that Rex Connor was a great nationalist, and so he was. He also said that Rex Connor was a great socialist, and so he was. Rex Connor would not mind the Prime Minister saying those two things about him. He would smile if he could hear those words being said after his death, because he would want people to remember him as a great nationalist and as a great socialist. That is what he was. Of course, the Prime Minister always attacked him for being a socialist and for being a nationalist. Being an arch-conservative himself, the Prime Minister could not be expected to do other than attack him for being a nationalist and a socialist. It was proper, nonetheless, that he should mention those two great things for which Rex Connor stood. 
Of course, Rex Connor was a great nationalist. He wanted to see Australia- that is, the Australian people- build, own and control a pipeline from our western seaboard to our eastern seaboard, to convey the enormous quantities of natural gas which he believed were obtainable from the North West Shelf. He did not want some private enterprise to own the pipe grid so that no matter who owned the gas or who wanted to use the gas, the owner of the grid would be able to dictate the price of the gas. He wanted the Australian people to own it so that no one could exploit those who produced the gas and those who used the gas. He wanted to establish in Australia a petro-chemical industry costing something like $600m. He believed that, with the discovery of gas and our own oil resources, Australia ought to receive the benefit from the by-products which a petro-chemical industry could provide. He wanted that petrochemical industry to be owned by everybody in Australia. Every man, woman and child in this country would be an equal shareholder in it so that no foreign multinational corporation could exploit them as is being done in so many other industries. He wanted to see the Australian people- every man, woman and child in Australia- being an equal shareholder in the exploitation of Australia's resources of gas on the North West Shelf. He did not want to see foreign cartels and multinational corporations getting the benefit of that which was put in the North West Shelf for every Australian, not just for a few overseas investors. He wanted everybody to share in its benefits. He wanted to buy back some of the farm. Those were his aims and objectives. 
He set about trying to borrow the money from overseas to make it possible to do all of those great things. Had the people of Australia known what his program was and had they understood the reason why he wanted Australia to own Australia's natural resources, what he did in order to try to obtain overseas loans would have been applauded instead of being condemned by those who out of ignorance did not understand what it was all about. The money was available. The Middle East countries between them are getting $65 billion a year in royalties for their petrol and oil. Those countries had the money and were prepared to lend. But for the blatant interference by Treasury officials and the politicking by the then Liberal-National Country Party Opposition, I am convinced that the money would have been made available and that Australians would have had those resources to call their own. Instead of that, we now find that the same amount of money is being borrowed by private enterprise so it can become the controller and owner of that which Rex Connor wanted Australia to have. 
Rex Connor was a very loyal colleague. He always said that the test of loyalty is not to support someone when you believe his judgment is right. Anyone can do that; even an enemy can be forced to do that. The test of loyalty is to support a colleague when you believe that his judgment might be wrong. Rex Connor believed that in government a Minister should be the one to determine what ought to happen within his department. His view was that once a person was commissioned by the Governor-General to run a department he was the one who should be permitted to run that department, subject only to the overriding decision of the Cabinet as a whole or of the Caucus. That was one of the things which distinguished him from other people. 
I sat next to Rex Connor in the Cabinet and on the ministerial benches. I had a lot of talks with him. I think I was closer to him than most people in the Parliament; certainly, I believe I had more talks with him than most people in the Parliament. I had very long talks with him. One day what we talked about no doubt will be published. Rex Connor was a man worth talking to. One could always learn something from a talk with him. In fact, I moved the motion, which was adopted by Caucus, to acknowledge his work as a great Australian and as a great Laborite. I am proud of the fact that I moved that motion. I could have done little less.lt is not surprising that Caucus unanimously adopted the motion. 
Rex Connor's resignation would have been rejected by Caucus had it not been for his intimation to Caucus that he had intended to stand down by the end of the year. Nonetheless, he was hurt inwardly by the fact that the Prime Minister had demanded his resignation. He was a very proud man and valued his good name. His position was vindicated completely when the Caucus met after the 1975 general election and re-elected him to the shadow Cabinet. That gave him enormous pleasure. It gave him a great deal of pride to know that his colleagues in the Caucus still had complete faith in him as a person. 

 His pride and his jealousy of his good name and of his good reputation caused him a great deal of anguish in the Sankey litigation. He felt that he was being pursued for political motives only. He was worried about the mounting costs of the litigation. The Prime Minister eventuallytoo late, I think- agreed that the Government would meet the costs in the same way as the Labor Government met the costs of  Senator Webster  when he was under attack in the courts, including the High Court. It was very proper that the Government should have met the costs. But this Government allowed Rex Connor to suffer for nearly 2 years before it was announced that the costs would be met. He was worried about his good name. Nothing hurt him more than for someone to suggest that he would do something mean or dishonest. These people have had their fun. I hope they are satisfied with the result of their persecution. 
I believe Rex Connor should have been Prime Minister of this country. He would have been a great Prime Minister. He would have joined Curtin and Chifley as the three greatest Prime Ministers this country has seen because he was a great Australian, a visionary. He was not a mean man. He was not a little man. He would have been ideal for the position. What sickens me is the hypocrisy of the Press and of those who denigrated him in life and who now tell the truth about him only after he is no longer here to benefit from hearing it. The Press and the denigrators of Ben Chifley did the same thing. The night before he died he was pictured by one Sydney newspaper as an agent of the Kremlin. The next morning the same newspaper described him as Australia's greatest son. It is this hypocrisy of the people who control the media that sickens me. They knew all along, apparently that Connor was a great man and yet in his life they went out of their way to picture him as a man who was anything but great. 
He was many years ahead of his time- at least 20 years ahead of his time- and history will record this fact. History will give a very proud place to the name of Rex Connor. No Minister was more in command of his Department than was Rex Connor. He was greatly respected by his permanent head,  Sir Lennox  Hewitt, and a Minister needs to be good to command the respect of  Sir Lennox  Hewitt, who is known to all of us either personally or by repute. He also commanded the respect of those beneath  Sir Lennox  Hewitt. Whether they were retired sea captains or of some other calling, he commanded their respect because they all realised that they were dealing with a Minister who knew more about his Department than did any person in it. They all knew that they were dealing with a man who was more conversant with the activities of his Department than anybody else in Australia. He negotiated a new price for coal which benefited the coal producers in Australia but I have not yet read any words of appreciation from them for it. He told his colleagues in 1972 that uranium, which was then $6 per lb would rise to $40 per lb by 1977 and to $100 per lb by 1980. Rex Connor has been proved correct in all his prognostications. 
I have lost a very great and loyal friend, a great Laborite. His sons have lost a loving and very distinguished father and his many other close friends have suffered the same grievous loss as I have suffered. Australia has lost one of its greatest sons. He was an intellectual giant by any standards and Australia can ill afford to lose such people. 
I must congratulate my colleague the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  for having brought forward for discussion this very important matter. If he had not done so I am certain that no honourable member on the Government side would have bothered even to speak on the issue. Government supporters are quite uninterested in it, as is proven by the fact that not one of the Ministers who should be concerned with this problem has bothered to speak in reply, nor has one of them bothered to sit in the chamber and listen to the debate. So completely apathetic is the Government to the problems raised by the honourable member that not one of its Ministers has bothered to make a contribution to the debate. 
Instead, it selected one of the most junior members of the back bench, one who is not noted for having any special knowledge of industrial relations or of structural assistance to speak on the matter, thus showing its absolute contempt for the issue that has been raised by my colleague the honourable member for Port Adelaide. Where is the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)?  Where is the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)?  Where is the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)?  Where is the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)?  Listening to the platitudes that he utters over the media one would think that he had some passing concern for structural adjustment, but when tested it is found that apparently he does not have even that. 
We heard from the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  that the Government has decided to set up an expert body. It was set up last night, he said. Yes, after almost two years of being in government, the Government has decided to set up an expert body. This Government is always setting up expert bodies and interdepartmental committees, sending manpower missions overseas and calling for reports from somebody else. But it never does anything positive. That, of course, is the principal problem- words but no action. 
If we really want to solve the problems arising from structural change we need to match the efforts of the Swedish Government in relation to manpower problems and structural change in that country. It is a very much smaller country than ours, but if we were to match on a per capita basis the amount of money that the Swedes are spending on this problem we would not be spending a miserable $109m which is the proud boast of the honourable gentleman who has just resumed his seat; we would have to spend no less than $ 1,200m. Their constant objective is to make manpower training available to no less than two per cent of the whole Swedish work force, but we would not be providing manpower training for even 0.02 per cent of the work force in this country. That is the trouble. 
Mention was made of the National Employment and Training scheme. Of course, the NEAT scheme in its infancy was subject to all kinds of abuses. That did not last for long, but it is true that when NEAT first introduced it was subject to abuses. It was a completely new scheme and something that this country had never thought of until I became Minister for Labour. The very first thing I did when I became Minister was to send a manpower mission overseas to study the problems of manpower training. It is true that because it- was a new scheme which this country had never ever seen before it was subject to some abuses. I am sorry to say that the abuses came from the middle class sections of the community, the more affluent people to whom the honourable member for Kingston referred. I notice that the honourable member has now left the chamber altogether, leaving only four members of the Liberal Party in the chamber to listen to what I have to say, despite the fact that I am a former Minister for Labour. 
The fact is that the scheme was abused by the middle class affluent people. It was not abused by the ordinary people, the people whom we represent. I am sorry to have to admit that some of the chief offenders came from within my own Department. They were Second Division officers in some cases. In other cases they were class 10 and class 1 1 officers who could see an opportunity to get their wives into NEAT and to sponge on the taxpayers' money with no intention of their wives, relatives or friends whom they had met at cocktail parties ever entering the work force. 
-What did I do? That is a good question. I stopped it immediately. I issued an instruction to the head of my Department that from then on nobody was to be given tertiary education under NEAT unless he had my personal approval. I needed to have from the Department an itemised statement showing the qualifications of the person and what his chances of getting employment would be once tertiary education had been supplied to him. The Department knows perfectly well that I refused approval to anybody unless those particulars were supplied to me. 
We will never have a proper manpower training policy unless we can match it with on-the-job training as well. It is no good teaching somebody technology and giving him technical training in a highly skilled trade unless he has a chance to go into industry and receive on-the-job training. A person cannot get this sort of training in a period such as the present time. Employers are not interested in putting on trainees when they can get ample supplies of skilled labour which does not have to be trained. We ought to be spending a lot more money on technical education and not so much on university education. As I have said on so many occasions now that I am sick and tired of hearing myself say it, we have too many experts on the breeding habits of the white ant and not enough people who can tell us how to make a machine or a decent motor car. That is the trouble. There are too many historians and experts in algebra, geography and all the other kinds of useless subjects and not enough technologists. 
I heard the John Laws show on radio this morning. I heard John Laws telling somebody that he ought to get off his backside- those were his words, not mine; I am merely repeating them- and get out and do a job of some kind whether he liked it or not. The young school leaver at the other end of the telephone said to John Laws: 'I do not like doing that sort of work'. John Laws said: 'I do not care whether you like it. You have to do it whether you like it or not'. That is an attitude with which I disagree. Young people ought not to be forced into doing work they do not like. Everybody has the right to be given a job he likes. All honourable members like the job we are doing. Most people like the work they are doing. It is only if we like the jobs we are doing that we will perform them properly. There are some jobs which people will never like doing. I could never imagine anybody liking a job as the driver of a night cart in some country town. Therefore, these people ought to be given a decent salary so that if they do not like the job the salary is an incentive. We expect people to do rotten, filthy uninteresting, tedious jobs and receive virtually no salary for them. 
The Government is always looking at problems but never finding solutions. Even if the 
Government had any real concern for the unemployed and for industry that is overtaken by the advance of technology in the countries with which we have to compete, it has done nothing at all to equip itself with the implements of action needed to cope with the problems of structural change. We need a computerised Commonwealth Employment Service, something which I authorised when I was Minister for Labour. What has happened to my authorisation for the computerisation of the Commonwealth Employment Service? What has happened to my decision, approved by Cabinet, to set up a bureau of labour economics? Both of these things are absolute necessities. A bureau of labour economics ought to be established immediately on the lines that 1 recommended to my Government to make short term, medium term and long term projections of labour needs right up to the year 2000, as the Americans and Russians are now doing; to measure and record movements in productivity and productivity trends in particular industries and branches of industry; to study the incidence of industrial accidents and and occupational diseases; and to conduct research into ways and means of reducing these. We are losing twice as much production through accidents and industrial diseases than we ever lose through strikes. That is something people always seem to overlook. 
We ought to be in a position to provide information to employers, trade unions and industrial tribunals on matters relating to industrial relations. We need the computerisation of the offices of the CES for the purpose of providing a selfservice to persons seeking work and to employers seeking employees. 
I begin by congratulating the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  on an excellent address. Without doubt the honourable member is the best informed member of this Parliament on the question of nuclear energy. He is a long way ahead of me and I say in advance that to the extent that my views might differ from his I would say that the difference is represented by my lack of knowledge compared with his knowledge. I make that explanation of any future conflict that may exist between what I say and what the honourable member for Hawker said. I want it known in advance that the conflict is due to my ignorance of the situation rather than to his. That leaves me free to lash out now and say what I think ought to be said. Firstly, it is nonsense to suggest that nuclear energy is a permanent answer to the world 's energy crisis. It is not. 
I am pleased to hear the honourable member for Holt admit it. Of course it is not. If we were to rely upon nuclear energy to produce all the energy that we are now consuming, the whole of the uranium resources of the world would produce less than 10 years supply of energy. Then we would be left without any energy at all from nuclear sources. We would be left only with the radioactive waste which would render the genes of the human race liable to distortion and mutation for the next 500,000 years. So we would have no permanent solution to the energy crisis; all we would have would be a permanent poisoning of the whole of the earth's surface and a permanent risk to future generations yet unborn, for thousands of yearshundreds of thousands of years- to come. 
We ought to be spending more time trying to discover the secrets of fusion energy. We ought not to be bothering about nuclear energy because there is no answer yet to the question of how to deal with the radioactive waste from it. If we were to spend our energy on scientific research and the technology associated with discovering the secrets of fusion energy we would be in the position of not having to worry about the radioactive waste that will come from the use of uranium. That is what we ought to be doing. I am certain that we are more likely to get the answer to fusion than we are to find some safe way of storing the radioactive waste from nuclear energy. That is what we ought to be doing. 
In the meantime we ought to be doing a lot more than we are in the realm of solar energy. When I was Minister for Science I took it upon myself to direct my department to step up solar energy research. We were responsible for the Commonwealth Scientific Industrial Research Organisation stepping up its research in this area to the point where, believe it or not, most other countries looked upon Australia as being the most advanced country in solar energy research. I was very proud when I visited the Academy of Science in the Soviet Union and the Indian Academy of Science to hear leading scientists from around the world say that our country was leading the world in solar energy research. There was a time when people who studied solar energy believed it would be a great thing if we could convert the sun's rays and heat water for bathing purposes. They said the big drawback was that it would be possible only to heat water during the daytime but not at night. Whatever hot water was stored during the day would be stone cold by the next morning. 
Australia has already discovered at the Australian National University a means of storing solar energy. It can now be stored in ammonium. It can be concentrated and compounded to the point where not only are we able to bring water to boiling point and store the energy necessary to ensure water at boiling point right throughout the 24 hours of the day, summer and winter alike, but also we can now produce heat from solar energy by compounding the stored up energy to the point where we can melt steel. The tragedy is that this Government has decided to cancel the research project that was being carried out at the ANU. That project, which was leading the world in solar energy research, was scrapped because of this Government's lack of interest in solar energy. 
In the meantime we ought to be using our coal resources. There is at least 300 years supply of coal resources in the world. That is sufficient to maintain the present rate of energy use until such time as we are able to discover the secrets of fusion. After all, when we are looking at the sun we are looking at the fusion of hydrogen atoms. If we can discover how to fuse hydrogen atoms there will be an unlimited supply of the source material in the water and in the atmosphere and there will be no contamination at all. All we have to do is discover the means of generating sufficient heat to trigger off the fusion in the first instance. Once that is done we have a permanent answer to our energy crisis. 
We hear all this nonsense about the poor Third World and about how we are trying to help the Third World. It is the Third World for which we are weeping; our hearts are bleeding for the poor black people in Africa and South America. Honourable members opposite are not worried about the Third World at all. It is nonsense. Nobody in this Parliament is capable of being hypocritical because that is contrary to the Standing Orders but the people outside the Parliament who talk about the Third World are blatant hypocrites of the first order. They do not care about the Third World. They know damned well that the Third World has not the resources to provide nuclear reactors to get nuclear energy. Those countries cannot even buy enough coffee to make a cup of coffee for themselves let alone provide nuclear reactors. So do not be such hypocrites by talking about the needs of the Third World. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! Is the honourable member calling members of the Government hypocrites? 
-No. I was talking about people outside the Parliament. I am also surprised to hear people talking about the need to help other people for our own sake. One would imagine listening to them that we are losing money by not selling uranium now. When the late  Mr Connor  became the Minister for Minerals and Energy in late 1972 he said to me in the Cabinet room one day: 'This crowd '-and he did not mean the crowd of which he was a member; he was so used to calling the previous Government, the McMahon Government, 'this crowd''had entered into a contract under which they were going to sell all our uranium resources on a long term contract basis at $6 per lb when by 1976 it will be worth $40 per lb and by 1980 it will be worth $100 per lb'. And so it will. The longer it is left in the ground the more valuable it will become. I would like to wager the proposition that the pro-uranium lobby that is now spending so many millions of dollars to try to con the media and the public of Australia into the belief that we have some special bounden duty either to the Third World, if that is the argument that the lobby thinks will appeal to the people to whom they are addressing their remarks, or to ourselves because we ought to sell our uranium before it goes down in price, would not be spending a single cent in pushing the point of view it is now putting if uranium were owned and controlled by the Australian people and mined and exported for the benefit of the Australian people. The uranium lobby is concerned only with the profits it will make out of uranium. That is all it is worried about. 
People like  Sir Ernest  Titterton, Baxter and these harlots of the pro-uranium lobby are prepared to sell their souls to the highest bidder. They are prepared to do anything for the 30 pieces of silver that might be thrown in their direction. Unfortunately Titterton has addled the mind of the great thinker, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  That is the man who has got hold of the honourable member. It is not the corns who have ruined his thinking process, it is Titterton and Baxter- bosom pals of the honourable member. It is no secret that yesterday the two of them were huddled together in the lobbies working out what the honourable member was going to say tonight. We do not want foreigners like Titterton coming to us and telling us what is best for us. 
I want to refer now to the proposal of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. Already the proposal to the ACTU Congress is a dead letter. Even if the Government had been prepared to accept that proposal for a referendum, what position would Bob Hawke have taken in the referendum? Would he have been in favour of mining or in favour of the Australian Labor Party's policy for a moratorium? He would have had to decide which hat he would wear on the occasion of a referendum. He would then have had to decide whether he would wear the Australian Labor Party hat and be in favour of the Labor Party's policy or wear somebody else's hat. I have not yet heard anybody tell us what those in the ACTU who have recommended the referendum propose to do. I know that Edgar Williams of the Australian Workers Union, who behaves as though he is the AWU, is prepared to poison and distort the genes of the 130,000 of his members to keep less than 2,000 of his members in a job in which they will lay themselves open to death from cancer caused by the radioactive effect of uranium mining. Everybody who has studied uranium mining knows that those who are engaged in the industry sell not only their labour but also their lives. It is all right for Edgar Williams in the safety of Dunstan House to say that he is prepared to put at risk the lives of members of his union for the sake of keeping up his falling membership and to appease the mining lobby. 
The honourable member for Mackellar talked about a propaganda campaign that is being run by the opponents of uranium mining. Apparently he has not seen the millions of dollars that have been spent by the pro-uranium lobby, by people who respond to the decisions that are being taken in their names from the board rooms of New York and London. He does not say anything about that. He talks instead about the communists. He said that this is a foul communist plot designed to immobilise the Western world so that the Soviet Union can forge ahead with ample power while we will have no power at all. How does the honourable gentleman account for the fact that there is a very serious rift in the ranks of the Communist Party of Australia over this matter? From what I can gather there are more members of the Communist Party supporting his view on uranium than there are against it. I know that  Mr Pat  Clancy is a notable exception. It is extraordinary that when the ACTU Interstate Executive was considering what it would recommend to the ACTU Congress, people who are members of the Australian Labor Party put up a proposition that was opposed to the Labor Party's policy.  Mr Clancy  and others moved an amendment asking the ACTU Executive to support the Labor Party policy for a moratorium. When a vote was taken it was the members of the Labor Party in the main who were responsible for defeating an amendment that was in line with Labor Party policy. So just where is the trade union movement going? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr WENTWORTH (Mackellar)-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 17 August 1977: 
Why are members of the armed forces who are stationed in isolated country areas required to pay the same rent for their housing as that charged to members who are stationed in city areas which are provided with recreational and other facilities not available in isolated areas. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 18 August 1977: 
What was the percentage of employees in the Australian work force registered as unemployed with the Commonwealth Employment Service for the months ended 
December, March, June and September of each year since 1970. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Is he in a position to indicate whether his Department has finalised its consideration of the report on proposals being developed in other countries concerning the desirability or otherwise of requiring wine makers to indicate on wine labels the sugar content, alcohol content, pH and acidity (expressed in gram/litre as tartaric acid) of the contents of each bottle of wine sold in Australia. 
-I am one of the few honourable members who served with Leslie Haylen for the period from  1949  until he retired from Parliament. I am pleased that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  said what they did about him. I am pleased that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  spoke in the way that he did of Les Haylen 's attributes. If Les Haylen could hear the valedictories of this Parliament he would be pleased that we reminded ourselves of some of his witty exploits and some of the examples of practical jokes for which he was quite famous. 
I know that it is normal to say that so-and-so was a colourful character; it is done almost always when we talk about people. Leslie Haylen was indeed a colourful character. I cannot remember him ever coming into this chamber without wearing a red carnation. I think it is sad that others did not follow the example he set because many of them would have improved their appearance considerably had they done so. 
I said that he was a practical joker. I should like to remind the House- and I know Leslie Haylen would like me to do so- of an example of his practical joking. One day the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)-  standing in the very place where he now sits, incidentallywas making one of his normal speeches against communism, unity tickets, the Russians and the Chinese, when Leslie Haylen said to me: Quickly, go into the bar and get a couple of white coats. Wardie will put one on and I will put on the other and we will stand alongside him and see how long he keeps going'. I rushed to the bar and gathered two white coats which belonged to the stewards. Eddie Ward could not get into his because it had narrow shoulders, but Leslie Haylen was able to scramble into his. In his white coat he walked up and stood alongside the honourable member for Mackellar. He quietly said to the honourable gentleman, as he was talking about communism: 'Excuse me, but the green van is waiting'. 
-The honourable gentleman was at once collected by, I think, the Sergeant-at-Arms, who was a little chap named Pettifer. This little man crept up on the honourable member and asked him to remove himself from the chamber. I think he was taken into the Speaker's room for an address of some kind. That was Les Haylen 's idea of practical joking. 
He had a very healthy disregard for the Country Party. I can recall the former honourable member for Mallee,  Mr Turnbull,  coming into the House, holding up a skeleton weed, and saying: 'Here is a skeleton weed'. Les Haylen said: 'Which is the skeleton weed?' The honourable member for Mallee was concerned about its spread. On one occasion Les Haylen invited us to observe the bovine expressions of those in the Country Party corner. To give an example of their doleful approach to life he lamented: 'The wheel of the waggon is broken; it ain't goin' to rain no more'. That was Leslie Haylen. He was a great character. He was one of the characters of the Parliament The honourable member for Mackellar is another. No doubt the Minister for Defence will be talked of in the same way in many years to come. 
I thank the honourable member for the promise. I do join - with other honourable members in expressing regret at the passing of Leslie Haylen. I convey my sympathy to his widow and his two sons. They at least will know that their husband and father was highly regarded by this Parliament, and by both sides of the Parliament. 
I preface my question to the Minister for Transport by reminding the honourable gentleman and the House that in September 1974 the Whitlam Government appointed  Mr Justice  J. B. Sweeney to conduct a royal commission into alleged payments to maritime unions. It had been alleged that the unions were receiving moneys by way of extortion obtained from shipping companies under threat of holding up shipping. That royal commission presented its final report to the present Government on 23 April 1976. 1 now ask the honourable gentleman: Did the Commissioner recommend certain amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and/or the regulations under the Act concerning the financial records of registered unions? Is it true that his Department recommended action along the lines of the commissioner's recommendation but that the Prime Minister intervened to prevent any action being taken in the matter? If this is not true, does the Government intend to take any action to implement the recommendations of the royal commissioner who was appointed by the Whitlam Government to make this inquiry? 
I am sorry that I was preceded by such an uninteresting speaker because the listeners around Australia will by now have turned off their radio sets. They wil be denied the opportunity of hearing the contribution I propose to make. That will be their loss. This Budget will do nothing to increase the level of employment in Australia. It will lower the level of employment. All experts- I emphasise the word 'experts'now agree that the number of unemployed by the end of this year will increase to at least 430,000. If this Government is still in office by the end of next year its Christmas present to the people of Australia will be an army of unemployed that will exceed 550,000. It will go on blaming wage levels for its own rising levels of unemployment and inflation. It will go on blaming the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for the wage increases which have occurred, arguing that wage increases are the cause of inflation. Wage increases are not the cause of inflation. I pause for a moment to examine the charges, made by people who ought to know better, against the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for being responsible for wage increases which occurred, particularly in 1973-74. The record proves that the Arbitration Commission was not responsible for them. 
-The Labor Government had nothing to do with the wage increases which occurred in private industry in 1973-74. They came about as a consequence of agreements made between the unions and the private employers. Private employers were able to offer increased wages because they knew that they could simply pass the increases on to a goods hungry public who were willing to pay whatever price was asked for the goods they needed so badly at a time when they were getting for the first time in their lives the money they needed to buy them. The Prices Justification Tribunal should have more accurately monitored the effect of increased wages which were given under sweetheart agreements in order that the price increases could be passed on so that these excessive demands should not have had to be paid by the rest of the people. 
I remember an occasion when the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union asked me to support an application before the PJT for an increase in the price of products of Comalco Ltd or Alcoa of Australia Ltd- I am not sure which. I told the official of the AMWU bluntly that I would not be a party to any policy that would allow selected groups to give specially increased wages to a tiny handful of workers and pass the increases on to the others. I am sorry to say that my own Government went before the Prices Justification Tribunal and actually supported an increase in the price of steel by Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd at a time when I was being told as Minister for Labour that we ought to be taking a more active part before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission against increases in prices. The fact is that the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission had nothing to do with the increases in wages which occurred in 1973-74. It was a bystander, a spectator standing on the sidelines, unable to do anything about them. No one bothered to go to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
It is true that the Australian Public Service Board offered very substantial increases to the public servants which had a marked effect upon wage levels outside. It offered a 12 per cent increase to second and third division officers and a 16 per cent increase to the people whom I describe correctly as the fat cats of the Public Service. The next year the Board offered a further increase. These offers, made without the authority or approval of the Cabinet, were the principal reason that the wage escalation occurred. We can no longer give massive increases to the Public Service and expect people outside the Public Service not to want to try to match them. They have every right to match them. If taxpayers are put in a position where they have to give their public servants more money, better superannuation schemes and all kinds of recreational schemes they have every right to expect the same benefits themselves. If the public cannot afford to give themselves these sorts of benefits, the public servants who are supposed to serve the public have no right to ask for them. 
We should not live in a situation in which we are governed by a group of modern mandarins who expect everything from the public purse for themselves and expect everybody outside to put up with wages which are infinitely lower than their own. It is a terrible crime in the name of justice that metal workers are getting less money now than a Class 4 clerk in the Commonwealth Public Service. It is a travesty of wage justice that a toolmaker should be getting $60 a week less than a Class 2/3 clerk in the Public Service. I know Class 4 clerks who are no more than 23 years of age and are earning about $10,000 a year. That cannot go on. It has to end. If honourable members want to see the real cause of the wage spiral in that year they should look in the direction in which I am now pointing. 
The claim that wage increases in the private sector have been responsible for inflation and unemployment does not stand up to critical analysis. If wage levels have anything to do with the levels of inflation and unemployment we should now have a lower level of inflation and a higher level of employment than we had two years ago. The level of real wages has fallen by more than 6 per cent since this Government came to office less than two years ago. If this argument is sound the reduction of about 6.2 per cent in real wages should have brought about a reduction in inflation and an increase in employment. It has done neither. If low wages would solve unemployment and inflation, how is it that levels of inflation and unemployment in low wage countries such as Mexico, India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Brazil, Indonesia and the Philippinesone could go on and on selecting the low wage countries of the world- are higher than they are here? 
The causes of inflation are not hard to find. There is not one single cause. In the financial pages of the daily Press record profits are announced every day of the week. I challenge anybody to produce for me a daily newspaper for any day of last year in which there was not an announcement of a record profit for some company or another, usually the Australian subsidiary of some multinational corporation whose board rooms in places like New York, Stockholm, London or Amsterdam govern the policies and prices of the company. Excessive profits, price transfers to parent transnational, high interest charges and indirect taxation are the main causes of inflation. The increase in the price of petrol, which this Government has deliberately brought about with its eyes wide open, will increase the consumer price index by 1 per cent and that will immediately impose upon industry an increase in wages of $2 a week for everybody on average weekly earnings. 
Not only is inflation affected by these influences, employment is affected by them as well. Unemployment is also partly due to inefficient management. Honourable members talk about inefficient labour. I assert now that management in Australia is about the most inefficient of any part of the highly industrialised world. Australia is notorious for its bad management. Management here has no idea of rationalisation of its industry. I point to one of the biggest and oldest companies in Australia, the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, which is one of the worst managed companies in Australia. For years it was managed by alcoholics. 
-Do not laugh. BHP is badly managed and I do not care whether honourable members have shares in that company; they are being robbed. If their shares were being properly managed they would be receiving a much bigger dividend than they are receiving now and the price for BHP shares on the stock exchanges would be greater than the present price of $5.60. 
-It is an inefficient leviathan. That is the expression used by the honourable member for Oxley and I agree with that. It is an inbred management. Top management people are not brought in from outside BHP. They have to come up through the company as do public servants. The company does not get any new bright ideas. McLennan will be succeeded by somebody else who will be just about as outdated as the man he succeeded. What is true of BHP is true of many other companies in Australia as well. I believe that industry needs to be rationalised. It needs to be updated so that throughput can be increased, so that overhead can be reduced. What is also very important is a reduction in interest rates. It is interest charges as much as anything else that are killing industry in Australia today. We need a greater use of modern technology than we now have. Too many of our industries are trying to continue with outdated machinery, outdated technology. We should be spending more time seeing what kind of technology is available to industry in countries such as West Germany, the United States, even the Soviet Union, Italy and France. But we do nothing about that. The Government does nothing to encourage the inflow of modern technology. 
It is no use having modern technology if we do not have technologists and technicians to operate it. It is no use having modern laser machinery in this country if we do not have people to operate it. We ought to spend more money on technical education, on teaching people to become technicians and technologists, and a lot less money on universities. I am sick and tired of seeing this country spending hundreds of millions of dollars on universities, teaching people to be good at arithmetic, algebra or something else but knowing absolutely nothing at all about productivity or about how to make this country tick. Such people can tell us all about the moon, they can tell us about the stars, they can tell us how many cells there are in a sour sob bug, but they cannot tell us anything about industry or how to make this country more productive and more competitive. We need to expand the level of employment in tertiary fields. 
In countries such as the Soviet Union and the United States they have now discovered that, with the rapid pace of life we are living towards the end of the century, they need a big influx of psychologists if people are to be able to handle the pace of life. But what are we doing? We have some psychologists, but not enough. We have some social workers, but not enough. We need more people to provide child care facilities for the mothers of this country. More money needs to be spent on recreation. It is not necessary for the whole of our work force to be out there shovelling dung. They do not all have to spend their lives that way. There are more ways of earning a living than that. We have to commence an expansion in the tertiary level because the secondary industries are dropping rapidly in their capacity to employ as technology comes into being. 
What we need more than anything else and we need it urgently-I eventually persuaded the Government of which I was a member to agree to it but nothing more has been done about it- is to set up a bureau of labour economics for the purpose of making period projections of labour needs right up to the year 2000 at least. The Americans are doing it and the Russians are doing it but we have done nothing at all. If one went to the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations and asked how many computer experts would be needed in six years time they would probably want to know what a computer expert was. They would not be able to say what would be the needs in that time. We need to have facilities, and this can only be done by a properly organised bureau of labour economics, which would be able to tell young people what vocational options are available to them. IBM has a machine now which, if the various factors important for determining vocational opportunities are fed in, such as the background, the parents background, their educational capacity and so forth, can come up with as many as 400 different options. Probably 350 of those options would be vocations of which neither the parents nor the child had ever heard. This is what we need. 
We need this bureau to measure the trend and the incidence of industrial accidents and occupational diseases. Honourable members opposite talk about strikes, but we are losing twice as many man days through accidents and diseases in industry which could be avoided. The only good thing I can ever say about BHP is that it has reduced the incidence of industrial accidents and disease from 95 points to 15 points. If an inefficient industry like BHP can reduce the level of the incidence of accidents to that level, others ought to be able to do it as well. Honourable members opposite talk about productivity, but nobody knows the productivity trends in Australia today. If we had a productivity index for increasing wages to compensate for increased productivity no one would know where to start. They would not know what the starting point of the productivity bonus scheme would be because nobody knows the productivity. We need to be able to measure year by year the productivity in Australia as a whole, the productivity industry by industry and branch by branch of industry. Unless we do that we have no chance whatever of competing. 
Part of the cause of unemployment is buyer resistance. We reached market saturation for the upper and middle classes of people during the 1973-1974 years of economic buoyancy. The people who have needs to be satisfied now are not receiving the incomes necessary to meet thenneeds. The wrong people are benefiting from the Government's fiscal policy. Some 330,000 potential buyers of the goods that the factories in Australia want to sell have no income except social service handouts. A proper coal export levy on Utah and the other coal exporters would have yielded an extra $200m in revenue each year. But that was not done. Instead of increasing the levy, as should have been done, this Government reduced the levy. Whom did it help? Nobody but the wealthy Utah Development Company and the foreign owned multinational corporations which now have control of our vast resources. 
The Government could have done more to encourage a manpower training program. It did nothing at all about that. A consumer-led recovery is our only hope for getting increased employment. But that calls for a higher level of income for those who are most likely to spend it on consumer goods- the 64 per cent of the work force who are not getting the average weekly earnings. Of course we know that life was not meant to be easy. It is not meant to be easy even for the rich. They have to put up with an 8,000 acre property; they have to put up with three sports cars; they have to put up with three separate homes. The poor things have to send menchildren to Melbourne Grammar School. If they have only one child they have to send him to Magdalen College at Oxford. They have to try to get by on $2,000 a week. So it is after all, an egalitarian society. Even the rich are having it tough. Life is not meant to be easy. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Does the Conciliation and Arbitration Act or its Regulations make any provision that requires that the rules of a registered organisation shall give its members ample notice of the opening and closing date for nominations for official positions. 
If not, is it the practice of the Registrar to refuse to register rules which fail to provide for suitable public notice of the opening and closing dates of nominations, particulars or offices to be filled and ample time within which a candidate may nominate for office. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
What is the reason for the alteration made to subregulations (2) and (3) of Regulation 139 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Regulations. 
In what way does the new regulation affect persons belonging to an organisation whose rules stipulate no opening andclosing date for nominations, but allows its management committee to summarily fix such dates without notice or publication. 
How can the practical application of this Regulation be reconciled with the provision of Regulation 146AD except by keeping nominations open for at least 2 months. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) What were the amounts spent each year since 1 974 on the implementation of the recommendations contained in the report of the Australian Committee on Technical and Further Education. 
What is the present ratio between students attending technical institutions and those attending universities. 
Does he have projections of the short term, medium term and long term labour in (a) technical grades and (b) non-technical tertiary educated grades; if so, what are they. 
If he has not arrived at an estimate of Australia's future labour needs, when does he propose to do so. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 18 August 1977: 
1 ) What were the amounts of letters of credit established by trading banks during each month between January 1970 and December 1975. 
Does the Reserve Bank have to be informed of letters of credit established by the trading banks. 
Are trading banks obliged to obtain the approval of the Reserve Bank or any other authority for the establishment of letters of credit. 
In view of the State Electricity Commission dispute in Victoria, has the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations examined the system of voluntary conciliation and arbitration which operates so successfully in Canada? If he has, or even if he has not, will he take urgent steps to consider the adoption of the Canadian system by which the parties to the dispute may mutually agree upon an arbitrator outside the arbitration commission to consider the dispute and to reach a decision which would then be binding on all concerned? 
The Latrobe Valley workers are entitled to a substantial increase in their wages. That is the starting point. The reason that we have this trouble now is that when wage indexation was first introduced we did not adjust the wages of the metal trades group to the natural or historical nexus that always existed between fitters and carpenters. Ever since Judge Higgins fixed the rate for carpenters and fitters and turners more than 60 years ago there has been this nexus between the two. When wage indexation was first introduced the award rate for a fitter was $27 a week less than the award rate for a carpenter. My view then was that wage indexation would eventually break down unless this anomaly was corrected at the beginning of wage indexation. I have been proved correct. 
It is all very well for members of this Parliament who recently voted themselves a $60 a week increase and it is all very well forjudges of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission who have been awarded an $80 a week increase- not an $80 a week increase on top of $180 a week, but an $80 a week increase on top of $800 a week- to sit in judgment on these workers. That is the position. It sickens me that judges of the Arbitration Commission should sit there in their smug satisfaction, on their $44,000 a year, and be telling useful people- people who are useful to the community and without whom we cannot exist- that they are not entitled to an increase in their salaries. I agree entirely with Bob Hawke that these men have a case. This Government knows that they have a case, but it is deliberately conniving with the Commission. I say 'deliberately' because the Government has been in touch with the Commission, and I know it. 
-It has. How do I know it? 
-You are not denying it. I am not telling you how I know it, but I know that this Government has been conniving with the Commission to refuse to give these men the just increase to which they are entitled because it wants to bring about sufficient chaos in industry to cause people to believe that the real culprits are the men who are merely asking for an increase in wages commensurate with the value of the work that they are doing. These men are getting $20 a week less than average weekly earnings. Do honourable members opposite know that? Do they know that a 21 -year-old clerk in the Third Division of the Commonwealth Public Service gets $20 a week more than average weekly earnings? Such a clerk gets $40 a week more than a fitter and turner. The clerk works 36% hours a week in an air-conditioned office. These men have to work out in the heat, the noise, the dirt, the smoke and the fumes of the industry in which they are doing 40 hours a week for $40 a week less. Of course they are entitled to an increase. Members opposite are nothing more nor less than a pack of hypocrites, sitting there on their $60 a week increase that they gave themselves only a little while ago, saying that these men are not entitled to a miserable $40 a week increase. Honourable members opposite got their $60 a week increase on top of a salary that was already in excess of $400 a week. What right have they deliberately to cause members of the public of Victoria to have to suffer the privations that they are suffering just to make it possible for them to win another election? They will find, just as Edward Heath found, that if they try putting the public to an inconvenience that they are deliberately setting out to do inorder to win some political advantage the attempt will backfire on them, as it ought to. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
That the honourable member for Hindmarsh be granted an extension of time. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Is he prepared to consider giving legislative force to Convention No. 1 1 1 of the International Labour Organisation. 
I rise to oppose the Bill. I seek to establish beyond all reasonable doubt that the Bill is phoney, that it is an attempt to create a situation that will produce a political climate that the Government hopes will enable it to hold the next election in a spirit of division and dissension. This Bill will not solve the State Electricity Commission dispute or any other dispute in which key personnel are engaged because where you have key personnel involved in a dispute they can, if they use their heads, always defeat any legislation and any government. The present SEC dispute will be won by the strikers unless they are sold out or betrayed by their leaders. 
The SEC employees have a just claim. Nobody can assert that these kev men, doing work that nobody but trained, skilled operatives can do, should be required to work for $40 a week less than a class 4 clerk employed by the Commonwealth Public Service who sits in an air conditioned office, working for 36% hours a week, enjoying all the frills and benefits that go with being employed by the Public Service. It is monstrous to suggest that key personnel like those involved in the strike doing the kind of skilled work they do and working in conditions that they work under should be forced to do so for $40 a week less than a 2 1 or 22-year old clerk in the Public Service. That is what the strike is all about. The men have justice on their side. We should have the decency to stand up and admit it and the courage to defend them for their actions. 
I hope that the men will not be deceived or betrayed into agreeing to a settlement that will cause them to lose their present advantage and to lose the justice of their claim. As I said, they have a just claim. If the Government proposes to send troops into the Latrobe Valley, as is now being talked about, or to send in scabs, there will be an immediate stoppage of all power production because members of the Municipal Officers Association have announced already that they will not work side by side with scabs and members of the Federated Engine Drivers and Firemens Association most certainly would refuse to work side by side with scabs or troops. If the Government of Victoria wants the Victorian people to forget about its own land scandals. To do this it will ask the Fraser Government to send in the troops and it will send in the scabs. Once that is done there will be no power produced in Victoria at all. That is the great strength of the people who are on strike. They know the Government's weakness and the Government ought to know their strength because the strength they possess is enough to win the strike for them. Because they can win and will win, the Government ought to face the realities of the situation and be prepared to talk to them in a commonsense manner. 
This Government wants a confrontation. This Government is carrying out a deliberate policy which is designed to create the division within the people of Australia that will help it politically. It is a cynical abuse of power for purely political motives so that the Government can divert public opinion from rising unemployment, galloping inflation and the pending collapse of the dollar. One of the leading industrialists in this country has recently stated that, by 1983, if we are still governed by the present political party, the number of unemployed persons in this country will rise to 750,000. 
-He is not mad.  His  name is Rod Carnegie and he is not as mad by a long way as the honourable member. That is his view. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  knows that he has lost control of the economy and that next year Australia will have more than half a million people unemployed. It will have a record number of bankruptcies and greater industrial unrest than ever before, in spite of the legislation that we are now asked to carry. There will be more and more foreign takeovers of Australia's industries and natural resources and a further drastic cutback in funds for education. There will be a savage increase in Medibank levies and indirect taxation, a further fall in real wages and a general reduction in the real value of social services. 
The Prime Minister's uranium policy will ignore the dangers of proliferation and the deadly risks associated with the storage of radioactive material. He will ignore the rising public opinion against the mining and export of uranium because he hopes to be able to force an election now on false issues and to be able to have another three years after the end of this year in order to defy public opinion and to treat the public with utter contempt. He hopes to rule for another three years in utter disregard for the wellbeing of the country. 
This legislation is deliberately designed to spread confrontation with organised labour to every State in the Commonwealth. The confrontation in Victoria is not enough. The Prime Minister wants to extend industrial confrontation to the three Labor controlled States as well and then, in the atmosphere of the situation which he has deliberately created, he will go to the people and say: 'Look, you have to decide who is going to govern.' The people, however, well know that the sole author of the confrontation and dissention will not be the person against whom the campaign will be waged but will be the Prime Minister himself. Then, in this atmosphere of division that the Prime Minister has deliberately created, the Prime Minister will call for an election to let the people decide. To decide what? They will not be deciding anything at all because the Government now has a record majority in the House of Representatives and it has a huge majority- huge certainly by Labor Party standardsin the Senate. There is no legislation that this Government cannot put through overnight. 
The Government has demonstrated that it is possible on this issue to put through in less than 48 hours the most contentious Bill that this Parliament has ever seen. If this Bill was three times as thick it would go through in exactly the same time as is now allowed under the guillotine mechanism. This Government has the power now to do whatever it wants if it has a solution. But it has not a solution. The Government will pretend to the people that if it is re-elected it will suddenly be able to pull a rabbit- and it does not have that rabbit yet- out of the hat. This is utter nonsense and the people will see through it. I repeat that the Government has the numbers now to pass any legislation it likes. What kind of legislation does it have in mind that it cannot pass today? What new powers will another election give to the Government that it does not already have? If the Government cannot point to some new power that an election will give to it, why does it not use the powers it already has to cure the problem we are talking about. 
Governments of the Liberal and National Country parties have been in power for 25 years out of the last 28 years. In that time they should have had every opportunity to examine the powers available to them and, if they have the powers to cure the confrontation that we are talking about, those parties stand indicted for having failed to carry them out over the last 28 years. 
It is now clear, as it was to me several months ago, that the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations and the special conference of the federal unions were led up the garden path when they were conned into saying that they would accept existing penalties and processes of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act m return for the abandonment of the more obnoxious provisions of the original Bill. The only peak organisation which had the gumption to reject the proposition was the Australian Council for Salaried and Professional Associations. I salute the leaders of ACSPA for the fact that they would not have a bar of it. It is equally clear that the establishment of the National Labour Consultative Council was a confidence trick and that regrettably the ACTU and CAGEO fell into the trap. It has no power. Its opinions are treated with contempt. Trade union collaboration with it does no more than provide sitting fees for its members and a facade of respectability to disguise its real purposes. The trade union members of the NLCC are not even allowed to report back to their constituent bodies on what happens at meetings of the NLCC. This has to be kept secret. That is the condition on which they go into the meetings. They should have been free to come out of the last meeting of the NLCC held eight days ago and to have exposed everything that we discovered, only at 7 o'clock last night, the Government proposed to do. Why have not we read a word in the newspapers about this from representatives of the unions on the NLCC? I think that one could almost call the NLCC a  national labour compromising committee '. 
So far as I am aware, the ACTU and CAGEO representatives have not held a meeting of the constituent unions since their last meeting with the Government's NLCC eight days ago. I believe that they had a duty to tell all the trade union movement by way of a special federal conference what had been planned so that at any rate the Labor spokesman and the people who represent labour on this side of the House would have had at least more than 12 hours notice of the present intention. 
I do not know whether the peak unions accept the principle of allowing union rules to be made by regulation. I assume that they do not. But that is what the Bill provides for. Here is a new concept proposing that the Government may make union rules by regulations. Where the union rules are in conflict with the rules specified by regulations, the rules made by regulations shall prevail. What sort of a situation is that going to be? It means that we have taken the first step towards giving the Government the right to make a set of uniform rules that will apply to all unions that wish to remain registered with the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. I do not know what sort of opposition was expressed by the unions at the last meeting of the NLCC to the proposal that the court can order that an elected official shall refrain from holding himself out as being so elected. I assume that they opposed it. I am certain they opposed it. But I have not read anywhere in the Press that representatives of trade union organisations on the NLCC have indicated their opposition to it. I repeat that they ought to be free to attack publicly what is being proposed at those meetings of the NLCC. If they are not free to do that, then if they have any self-respect at all, they will get off the NLCC altogether because they are being used as a facade by the Government to give respectability to the Government's rotten proposals to try to hogtie and weaken the trade union movement. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  claims that it is necessary for the court to have new powers to deal with demarcation disputes and to make orders prohibiting a union from covering a particular employee or group of employees. 
The only solution to demarcation disputes is to have a method by which organisations can amalgamate more easily than they now can and with greater expedition. We have at least 250 more unions than we ought to have for a population of 14 million people. After I had passed in the House of Representatives in 1973 a Bill to make it possible for the 303 unions we now have to amalgamate with greater expedition, the Liberal and National Country Party senators not only rejected the proposal but also on that occasion refused to give the Bill a second reading. Amalgamation is the only cure for demarcation disputes. Nobody defends demarcation disputes. They are indefensible; but the solution to them must lie in easier amalgamation resulting in fewer and more efficient unions. 
The Government talks about the democratic right of union members to control the policies and affairs of their unions and blames the communists for forcing members to go on strike against their will. In the case of the Latrobe Valley dispute the members involved in that strike have done exactly what the Minister now advocates. The log of claims was approved by a mass meeting of the employees concerned. By rank and file decision the log was served on the State Electricity Commission. When the SEC refused to accept the log the rank and file authorised the Electrical Trades' Union to serve the claim on their behalf. By rank and file decision, the workers then agreed to allow the matter to go to arbitration. It went to arbitration and they were betrayed again by the arbitration system for the third time in three years. Is it any wonder they no longer have any faith in the arbitration system? When the SEC introduced an objectionable roster system without consulting the workers concerned, the rank and file, by democratic vote, decided to strike again. None of these decisions was forced upon the rank and file by some communist agitator. The decisions were reached at a democratically conducted meeting of members which 2,300 members attended and by vote decided to support the actions that were taken. 
The present strike came about as a result of rank and file decision, not by a directive of some union bureaucrat. Since we are talking about communist union bureaucrats it is perhaps appropriate to mention that when John Halfpenny went down to the Latrobe Valley to try to persuade the men to go back they howled and hissed and jeered rum out of the meeting. So much for the nonsense about communists union officials forcing people to go on strike against their will. One cannot force people to go on strike against their will when they have to suffer as they do through strike action. Workers do not get paid while they are on strike. A strike means a real sacrifice not only for the person concerned but also for his wife and children. It is not a paid holiday as Liberal Party members seem to imagine. The decision to take the dispute back to arbitration last week again was taken by the rank and file. When they were betrayed by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission on Tuesday this week for the fourth time in less than four years, the rank and file, by democratic vote, voted on Tuesday to go on strike again. 
The maintenance men in the Latrobe Valley have justice on their side and they should not surrender until they win. I hope they will not surrender until they win this dispute because if ever a claim was justified it is this one. This dispute has now reached the stage at which the strikers are in a position to force the issue. To give up the fight now would allow the Hamer Government to snatch victory from the very jaws of defeat. That, I hope, they will never do. 
We are now going to give the new GovernorGeneral an increase in salary of $7,000 tax free, which is nearly $400 non-taxable income a week. While the Government says that these useful men who are doing something for the community are not entitled to $40 a week it gives the equivalent of a $400 a week taxable income to some person like the Governor-General who has no useful purpose at all. He produces nothing. 
-That is right. The Labor Government increased the salary - 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes. I refer to a book published by  Mr Paul  Kelly entitled:  The Unmaking of Gough.  In it  Mr Kelly  states that I resigned as Minister for Labor and Immigration. That is not true. 
-I direct my question to the Prime Minister. I refer to his quite categorical statement that there will be joint elections in either December of this year or AprilMay of next year. In view of the fact that a joint election cannot be held until the House of Representatives has been dissolved before its term expires- only the Governor-General can do that- and in view of the fact that the incoming Governor-General cannot dissolve the House of Representatives before he takes office on 8 December, will the Prime Minister state whether he has already talked with the present GovernorGeneral about a dissolution of the House of Representatives? 
-At 3.47 p.m. today  Mr Charlie  Oliver was expelled from the Australian Workers Union on the casting vote of Edgar Williams, a man who is not fit to wipe his boots, for no better reason than that Oliver moved to give the rank and file of his union the right to elect a new general secretary and a new  president.  For years and years now General Secretary Frank Mitchell and  President  Edgar Williams have been responsible for allowing one of the finest unions in Australia to detenorate into a disgraceful shambles with some of the worst awards in Australia and an utter comtempt for the democratic rights of the union membership. The union's funds are depleted. In Queensland, Victoria and Western Australia the wage rates and conditions of employment would be a disgrace even if measured against the standards of 40 years ago. Oliver wants to change this state of affairs. He wants to restore the AWU to its former greatness. He wants to give to AWU members in Queensland, Western Australia and Victoria the same high level of awards and rights of participation in the affairs of the union as AWU members enjoy in New South Wales, South Australia and Tasmania. So he decided to nominate for the position of general secretary himself and arranged for a colleague in New South Wales, John Quilkey, to challenge Williams for the presidency. 
Oliver has been a lifelong member of the Australian Labor Party. He served for a near record term as State President of the ALP in New South Wales. He served as an officer of the AWU in Western Australia. He was then elected as a Labor member of the Western Australian Parliament. When the New South Wales branch of the AWU appealed to him for help nearly 30 years ago, he left his cosy seat in the Western Australian Parliament to rescue the New South Wales branch of the AWU from the mess it had got into. Oliver has dedicated his whole life to his union and to the Australian Labor Party. It has often been said that the Labor movement has been Charlie Oliver's religion. When he dared to arrange for the General Secretary and President of the AWU to be opposed I told him that he would never get to the finishing post because his opponents would find some way of expelling him and his mate so that the General Secretary and President could be re-elected unopposed. My forecast has in fact come to pass. Mitchell's only opponent has now been expelled from the union which he has served so faithfully for all of the working years of his life on the casting vote of the very man whose position is under challenge by Oliver's colleague. 

 Mr CLYDE CAMERON Yes, I am sure the court will reinstate him. Significantly enough the six delegates who voted for his expulsion were all from the States in which AWU members have been so sadly betrayed, and the six who voted against the expulsion were from the three States of New South Wales, South Australia and Tasmania, in which it is the policy of the paid officials to do their very utmost to keep AWU awards amongst the best in Australia. Oliver's only crime is that he wants AWU members in Queensland, Western Australia and Victoria to share the benefits which AWU members already have in New South Wales, South Australia and Tasmania.  His  crime is that he and his colleagues dared to oppose the two men chiefly responsible for the shameful neglect of AWU members in the three States I have mentioned. 
It is not possible in the time at my disposal to explain all of the technicalities associated with what is known as the law of Moore v. Doyle, but in essence it is this: When the New South Wales branch of a federal union registers in the New South Wales Industrial Commission it ceases to be a part of the federal body and its officers are no longer bound by the federal body's directives insofar as they may relate to those officers ' activities in the State union. Oliver, in his capacity as  president  of a State registered union, had carried out a directive of his State union to increase membership fees payable by members of the State union to $40 a year- little enough, but more than the federal union was charging its members. This is one of the reasons that the federal conditions are so shamefully bad. The price of the federal union ticket is only $30 a year. Mitchell and Williams used this difference in the charges that the two different unions fixed for their fees and imposed upon their members as a subterfuge for charging Oliver with misconduct and called upon him to show cause why he should not be expelled. This was not a reason; it was an excuse. Their action is illegal and will be set aside by the Federal Court of Australia when it gets before that court. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  section 1 3 3 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

133 (1 ) 'In addition to the conditions referred to in subsection (2) of section 132, the conditions to be complied with by associations applying for registration as organisations and by organisations include a condition that the rules of the association or organisations- (a)...... (b)...... 
. . .... 
. . ... (da) . . .... (db) . .... . 
. . .... (0 Shall not provide for the dismissal from office of a person elected to an office within the association or  organisation unless he has been found guilty, in accordance with the rules of the association or organisation, of misappropriation of the funds of the association or organisation, a substantial breach of the rules of the association or organisation or gross misbehaviour or gross neglect of duty or has ceased, according to the rules of the association or organisation, to be eligible to hold office'. 
-I thank the House. In that section we see that the only way that an elected official can be expelled from any union nowadays is if it can be shown that he has been guilty of misappropriation of funds, substantial breach of the rules of the federal union, gross misbehaviour or gross neglect of duty. Charlie Oliver has never misappropriated a cent of the union's funds. 
-I am glad to hear I have support from my two colleagues. Charlie Oliver has never committed a substantial breach of the union's federal rules. He has never been guilty of gross misbehaviour and he has never been guilty of gross neglect of duty as the Act requires his accusers to prove. The chief objects of the Act also are germane to this case that I now present to the Parliament. I ask leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the relevant part of section 2 of the Act. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Section 2(f) 
The chief objects of this Act are- 
. . . 
. . . 
. . . 
. . . 
. . . (0 to encourage the democratic control of organisations so registered and the full participation by members of such organisation in the affairs of the Organisation. ' 
-I thank the House. The part I refer to is paragraph  (0  which says that the chief objects of the Act shall be to encourage the democratic control of organisations so registered and the full participation by members of such organisations in the affairs of the organisation. Charlie Oliver was seeking to give the members of the AWU all over Australia the right which the Act says they shall have- the right to participate in the affairs of the organisation by determining by secret vote conducted by the electoral officer as to who shall be their federal secretary and federal president. But the people who laid the charge against him are very cunning and crafty. The man whose casting vote was used to expel this great Australian this great Laborite and this great unionist from the position he has held for so many years of his working life was a man whose own position is under challenge by Oliver's colleague. That man had the audacity to use his own - 
-There you are. The honourable member just voted for Oliver.  His  vote could be wasted unless something is done quickly to save the situation. This ballot is now in progress. It is half completed. It will not be completed until early in December. Hundreds of votes are coming in every week and now that these men have succeeded in expelling Oliver the word will go out that it is no use voting for Oliver because he has been expelled. The members will then feel that they have no alternative but to vote for the man who used his casting vote to put one of his rivals out of office. This is what is happening. Mitchell and Williams believe and hope that as a result of expelling this man there will rest upon his good name and reputation a dark cloud which will suggest that he has done one or more of the things which the Act states has to be proved before anybody can be expelled from a union. They Wil want the members to believe that he has been guilty of misappropriation of funds or that he has been guilty of a substantial breach of the rules, gross misbehaviour or gross neglect of duties. 
-The reason they gave is that he had issued tickets in the State union which carried a fee different from that fixed for the tickets of the federal union. They have no power whatsoever to give a directive to an officer of another union that is a completely separate entity with its own separate legal personality. They know they are wrong but they do not care because they want to brand Charlie Oliver as doing something that is reprehensible. Nobody would believe that they would dare do what they have done unless they had established a case for one of those four offences. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I refer to the ballot that is about to begin in Victoria for the Shop Assistants Union and to the fact that the challengers of the sitting officials are unable to obtain a copy of the voters' roll. Is the honourable gentleman aware of the fact that the Electoral Officer has refused to allow the challengers to pay, at their own cost, for the computerised copy of the electoral roll which will be used in the ballot that will start on 24 November? Is he aware of the fact that when the roll was brought back to the Australian Electoral Office yesterday the Electoral Officer told the candidates concerned that they still could not have a copy of the roll because the computer company had made some mistakes? Does he know that the challengers have only the names which were published on the roll for about March of this year and that the many thousands of names which have been added since are not known to them? They are, however, known to the encumbents. Will the Minister take urgent steps to arrange for the Electoral Officer to postpone the opening date of the ballot so that all candidates will have a proper opportunity to put out their voting material? Will he take steps also to have the Electoral Officer comply with the quite reasonable request of the candidates concerned, that they be permitted to purchase at their own cost duplicate copies of the computerised account of the electoral roll? 
I preface my question to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations by reminding him and the House that among the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which take great care to ensure that members of unions are able to participate effectively in the affairs of their unions are three sections: Section 133, which gives to all financial members of the union the right to vote; section 152, which requires that union secretaries keep a correct account of union ticket butts; and section 170 A, which requires union secretaries to supply to the Commonwealth Electoral Office full particulars of all butts which they have in their possession. Having regard to those conditions or requirements of the Act, I refer to a very serious example of union balloting malpractice which is occurring right now in relation to the Australian Workers Union. At Mt Isa in Queensland more than 1,000 financial members of the union have been refused the right to vote. Does the Minister know that when complaints were made to the electoral officer the electoral officer told the members that he cannot get from the union secretary concerned a list of the members who are entitled to vote and that the union secretary is in breach of the Act and nothing is being done about it? Does the Minister know that the union secretary, on the other hand, when complaints are levelled against him accuses the electoral officer or not sending out the ballot papers? I want to know from the honourable gentleman now what action he proposes to take to ensure that all members of the Australian Workers Union who want to vote for or against the present office holders shall be given the right to vote, providing they are financial. 
I will not talk for very long. I begin by congratulating the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  on the excellent speech that he just delivered. It surprised me, and I am sure it surprised everybody in the Par.liament, to learn that he can speak with such eloquence and common sense on a matter such as this. What I liked about his speech was the fact that he did not read a single word of it. It aU came from the heart. My advice to him, which I offer in the kindliest of ways, is that from now on he should continue to speak from the heart- he has proved himself to have a heart- and not to read and rant from papers written to him by the Australian Cattlemen's Union or whoever used to write his speeches. The honourable gentlemen is improving rapidly and I am sure that in the dim, distant future, when his side comes to office again, we will see him in this place as a Minister. I hope that one day he is made a Minister. He is worthy of it. 
I wish to deal mainly with the point that the honourable member for Darling Downs made about Jondaryan Station. He is entitled to a great deal of praise for what he has done to foster this wonderful historic relic of Australian history. Not only is it a relic of the pastoral industry; it also is a relic- a very important relic- of labour history and the industrial history of Australia. I remember so well the honourable member coming to me, when I was Minister for Labour and Immigration and in charge of the Regional Employment Development scheme, and asking for support for the restoration of that magnificent old building. I approved his request and gave my support to it. I am sorry that I was dismissed from the ministry before I was able to see it restored. Of all the projects Labor carried out under the RED scheme- many very fine projects were carried out under that scheme- none was more deserving of support than the restoration of Jondaryan Station 
Jondaryan is the station where the Australian Workers Union first secured agreement from the pastorialists of Queensland for an all-union shop. It was agreed with the late Spence and Macdonnell that in the shearing season of the following year all of the workers there would be union members. Spence made the mistake-it turned out to be a mistake later but at that time, in the short term it was not- of threatening the owners of Jondaryan. He said that if they did not agree to a union shop, as it was called- to work according to agreement rates- the waterside workers would refuse to load the wool onto the ships. I have studied the history of the AWU and I have documentation to prove that Spence was never given authority by the Australian Waterside Workers Federation to make that threat against the owners of Jondaryan. That fact has not been previously recorded in any of the official history books but it will be recorded in my history of the AWU. He made that threat as a bluff, something for which he was notorious. The owners of Jondaryan caved in. When the waterside workers heard about the situation they took umbrage at the fact that their name had been used without consultation in the course of an industrial dispute. However, because Jondaryan eventually agreed to the union demand, the waterside workers were quick to turn around and claim credit for a threat that was made in their name. 
History shows that the settlement of the Jondaryan dispute sowed the seeds of the great maritime strike. When the ships officers were refused the right by the ship owners to affiliate with the Melbourne Trades Hall Council, the ships officers, in conjunction with the waterside workers, made the same threat which had been so effective against the owners of Jondaryan. However, the ships officers and waterside workers lost and one of the biggest strikes ever recorded came into being.  
Jondaryan is an important part of Australian labour history. It has the biggest shed ever built in Australia and perhaps anywhere in the world. It is fitting and proper that it should be restored. I hope that the parties now in office will support the party which will be in office after 10 December in giving a substantial donation for the purpose of restoring Jondaryan so that we can proudly show it to people from overseas and, perhaps more importantly, to the people who live here. 
-I rise only because, with the departure of the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  I am the longest serving member of the Opposition. I have served with three of the four retiring Labor members during the whole of the period that I have been in the Parliament and for most of the period that they have been here. Mr Beazley - I hope I Will be permitted to break the Standing Orders to call him by name- is without doubt one of the most able debaters this Parliament has ever seen. He has an analytical mind. We will miss him. He will go down in the annals of the parliamentary records as being one of the parliament's greatest debaters. The same comment can be made of  Dr Cairns  who was also a great debater with an analytical mind. I wish him and  Mr Beazley  a happy retirement. 
In my view,  Mr Crean  was the best qualified Treasurer and the best Treasurer this country has seen over the past generation. He was a magnificent Treasurer. He was too much of a gentle.man I think, for the people with whom he was dealing. He should have been tougher but it was not in his nature to be as tough as he should have been on the type of people with whom he was dealing. He was too much of a gentleman for that. I will always remember him as a great elder of the church of which I am a member. He has been a great companion of mine. I wish him a happy retirement. I know he will relish the opportunity of spending more time with his wife, Mary, than it has been possible for him to do in the past. 
I come now to you,  Mr Speaker.  Of aU the people who trampled on the Standing Orders when they were in opposition, I know no one who erred as often and with such relish as you seemed to do. When you were Leader of the Opposition it did not seem to occur to you that you had to get the call before you could rise and start talking. I thought you knew no different. I took pity on you. I felt sorry for you. I thought: 'He is a nice chap. He is a lawyer. He is a Q.C. He is very clever in aU things except the Standing Orders'. I thought you had a sort of mental blockage with regard to the Standing Orders, until you became  Speaker  when I found that you were most meticulous in pointing out to members that they had no right to rise and start talking; they had to wait until they got the call. You seemed to hold it against me for the best part of the last two years that I was the one who constantly drew  Speaker  Cope's attention to your shortcomings. I did not think you had noticed it at the time but after your appointment I was sure you had noticed it and were determined to make me pay for it. In recent months, I am pleased to say, you seem to have forgiven me. I now get the call occasionally at Question Time; not very often. 
In my view, you have proven to be one of the very best Speakers under whom I have served. You have an extraordinary quality about you as Speaker. I have not seen it in anyone else. You know when to be firm. You can be firm without standing and shouting your head off. You can be firm in a voice that is barely audible. You look firm. I think I would look as firm if I had that wig. You are able to defuse periods of great tension. I pay you a very sincere compliment. I have told you this privately, but failed to produce the results for which I was hoping. Now that it cannot be said that I am looking for further favours from you, I say it to you publicly: You are a very great Speaker. 
I shall be very sorry to see the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  leave. I hope he is elected to the Senate. The Senate deserves him. We have had to put up with him for 28 years and I think it is only proper that the Senate should have its stint now and have him for six or 12 years. To the electors of New South Wales, to those who are to the extreme Right, to those Liberals who have some doubt about where the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  stands, as to whether he might be veering deep down in his heart towards socialism, let me say this: If they want to be absolutely certain of having a senator who will never show the slightest sign of weakness towards the Left or even towards the centre, or even to those who are bad enough to be just right of centre, they can do no better than to vote for the honourable member for Mackellar for the Senate because he will never betray them. He will never betray their most conservative wishes, thoughts and aspirations. He will always be there slogging it out for them, saying all the things that they would like to say in the Melbourne Club, Tattersall's Club and the other places where their ilk meet. 
I regret that time and the Standing Orders have not permitted me to point out to the new members, who unfortunately will not be present to hear it in the next Parliament, something about the escapades for which the honourable member for Mackellar is so famous. I refer to the blowing up of the Cronulla Bridge, the capture and holding incommunicado in the Blue Mountains of Sir Thomas Blamey, the presenting of the  Illawarra Mercury  cup to that dangerous communist Roche, and the way in which he took possession of the Redfern police station by dressing up all his members of the home guard as trammies just as the tramway people were changing their shifts, and instead of taking over the trams he took over the police station to make the point that Australia was in a defenceless state, that was not in a position to defend itself. I think that other members have missed something by not having heard me give what until now has been a ritualistic kind of diatribe, as he called it, to let members know what a magnificent man we have with us. The greatest of all W. C. Wentworths is about to depart this Parliament. I am sorry for that. 
I am sorry for the others who are leaving. Altogether 13 members of this Parliament know that they will not be back because they are retiring voluntarily or involuntarily, but they are retiring for certain. Many more will retire involuntarily. We do not know how many. I have made a calculation and I know that there will be at least 24 fewer members on the other side and that there will be 24 new members on this side. The thing about which I am saddened is that out of 27 Federal Ministers in 1975 only 10 remain. Since I became a member of this Parliament I think more than 500 members and senators have come and gone. I think it is very sad to see so many bright young men from the government back benches opposite who have been condemned to sit there for these two years knowing that they could never make it- people who have been unable or unwilling to crawl their way into the Prime Minister's favour so that they could serve in the Cabinet. I mention only some of them: The honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown),  the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil),  the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly),  the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock),  the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu),  the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury),  the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards),  the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  and the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  who, I think, will be defeated in the pre-selection for Wakefield by Bert Kelly. All of these men are men of very great talent. If there had been an election for Cabinet by the democratic means which the Labor Party follows in the selection of Cabinet, most of them would have been in the Cabinet and some of the no-hopers who are front benchers now would be back where they belong. 
-As the longest serving member of the Australian Labor Party in the Parliament I have taken the unusual course of joining the leaders and the defeated candidate in rising to congratulate you,  Mr Speaker,  upon your election. You have been a very good  Speaker.  As I said during the closing stages of the last Parliament, you have been able to preserve the dignity of the Parliament; you have been able to preserve order without screeching your head off, just by looking important. It was once said that it would be impossible for anybody to be as wise as  Sir Charles  Lowe looked. I often think that it is impossible for anybody to be as fair as you look. Of course, you are not as fair as you look. It does not pay to be. 
You must hear the same kinds of rumours as I hear around the corridors. They have died down since the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  won with a fairly good majority at the last election, but there was a time last year when he was starting to look sick politically, when people on your side were saying to me confidentially that they felt the time had come when they had to go back to Billy Snedden and ask him to lead the party again. That will certainly happen again,  Sir. It  may happen sooner than you expect. I hope that when it does you will rise to the occasion and remember, of course, that revenge is sweet. In the meantime, I should like you to do more than any other  Speaker  has ever done to protect the Parliament and its authority over the Executive. 
Government supporters-  Hear, hear. 
I am pleased to hear approval from the other side of the Parliament on this matter. Our parliamentary system will collapse unless the Parliament asserts its right over the Executive, and in that respect we can look only to you,  Mr Speaker.  You are our voice in this Parliament. You are the one who has to uphold the final authority of Parliament over the Executive, and the only way to do that is to tell the Executive that the estimates of Parliament are a matter for the Parliament and not for the Treasurer to submit.  Mr Speaker,  you are the one who ought to bring and recommend the estimates for Parliament. You are the one who ought to decide what amount of money the Parliament should spend in order to carry out the functions of Parliament and the Parliament should tell the Executive what is the amount needed. The Executive arm of government should not be allowed to subvert the authority of Parliament. 

 Mr Speaker, I know you will be pleased that in this Parliament you will be ably assisted by the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  as your  Chairman  of Committees. He was of tremendous assistance to you in the last Parliament and has already served under four Speakers. We can all look to the honourable member as being competent to carry on the high traditions which you have followed, and for that I congratulate you as well. I hope that you have a very successful career and that you work in close tandem with the honourable member for Lyne during the currency of this Parliament. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  had certain words to say. I regret that the honourable gentleman does not have the same understanding as I do of the independence of the Chair. I will say no more about his speech, but there is something I believe it is essential for me to say because I feel it very strongly and deeply. It is a great honour to me to sit in this chair, which is a replica of the seat of the  Speaker  at Westminster, the mother of Parliaments. The chair of which this is a replica was destroyed by enemy action when the House of Commons was bombed during the last war. This chair had come to us before that time and the chair that is now in the House of Commons is a replica of the original. We know from history that the House of Commons is some six centuries older than we are, and during those centuries a constitutional practice built up surrounding the office of  Speaker.  Conventions apply in the House of Commons in the United Kingdom, but one significant convention does not apply in this national Parliament. Great reference has been made to it today, but in an indirect sense, and I want to make it clear that I am referring to it directly. That is the convention whereby the  Speaker  has continuity of office in that Parliament so that he not only may be impartial but also can appear to be impartial. The office itself can be seen to be impartial by the separation of the  Speaker  from all political party activity and from all business, legal and other activity outside the Parliament. That is not the convention we have in Australia; I regret it. In the meantime I believe that the person occupying this Chair must maintain his independence from the Executive and from any threat from the Opposition. That is what 1 intend to do and will continue to do so that I may in my own way be seen to be impartial and in fact be impartial. 
-I join other speakers in expressing my sympathy to the wives, relatives and families of those who are departed about whom we are now talking. Allan Fraser served for a long time while I was in the Parliament. It was said that he was the only honourable member in the Parliament of whom  Sir Robert  Menzies was afraid in debate. I believe that statement came from  Sir Robert  himself. Allan Fraser was a great and powerful debater. He had an analytical mind. One was soon taught to fear him in debate. 
My principal purpose in rising is to pay tribute to the memory of  Sir John  Spicer. I would be less than grateful if I were to sit silent while other speakers talked of the great work of  Sir John  Spicer. It was his casting vote in the case of  Cameron  v.  Dougherty and others  which made it possible for me to remain solvent. The case eventually went to the High Court. I won again there. It went to the Privy Council in 1960, by which time the costs had amounted to more than £57,000. 1 could not have paid that money had I lost. Very few honourable members in the House at that time, apart maybe from the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  could have done so. Had I lost I would have become bankrupt and as a bankrupt I would have been finished as a parliamentarian. 

 Sir John Spicer was a great judge because he was right not only in this case but also in most of the cases over which he presided. It was a wonderful contrast to see the fairness, erudition and learning of  Sir John  Spicer and that exhibited by his brother Dunphy in these cases.  Sir Edward  Morgan sat on that case about which I am speaking. The same exhibition of impartiality on the one hand and the partiality on the other hand by Dunphy J. could be seen - 

 -The Sydney Morning Herald of 20 January 1978 published an article by  Mr Ian  Frykberg which purported to be an accurate version of what happened at the last meeting of the National Executive of the Labor Party. He alleged, among other things, that, in dealing with  Mr Combe  's analysis of the reasons for Labor's electoral defeat, I had been criticised by members of the Executive. He wrote: 
Criticism was not confined to  Mr Combe. Mr Whitlam  and  Mr Clyde  Cameron of South Australia received their share.  Mr Cameron  came under fire because it was thought that his public comments had not helped Labor's credibility. 
The article continued: 
It was said that he had made 'something of a crusade' of attacking  Mr Whitlam  over the past two years. 
I have checked with the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  who was at the meeting, the National Secretary of the party and at least six other members of the National Executive. I can say that nothing like the alleged remarks were made by anyone attending that meeting. No one criticised me for anything. I am told that there was criticism of  Mr Rod  Cameron of Australian Nationwide Opinion Polls on the outcome of his surveys, but even he was not criticised for allegedly making public comments against the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam). 
If this imaginary incident had been reported to  Mr Frykberg  as a fact by a member of the National Executive, I say that that person is an unmitigated liar and ought to be drummed off the National Executive. If it germinated in the mind of  Mr Frykberg,  I say that he is not only a liar but also a menace to the credibility of the paper which employs him.  Mr Frykberg  virtually condemned himself as a fabricator of news, because in another article published three days later he sought to purge his guilt by writing the truth. In that article he wrote: 

 Mr Combe came under fire, but then so did  Mr Whitlam, Mr Cameron,  the party's research organisation and anyone else who could be seen to have had a hand in the rejection of Labor. 
I serve notice on my detractors that every time my good name is sullied, directly or by innuendo, I shall move to defend myself and, if need be, to strike back. I shall send a copy of these remarks to the Ethics Committee of the Australian Journalists Association with a request for suitable action. If that body refuses to act I shall be left with only one other course, but I shall defer any further action until I see the outcome of my complaint to the AJA. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, first of all I would like to congratulate you upon your election to the position of  Chairman  of Committees. I did my best behind the scenes to organise a vote against you. We nearly succeeded. But you are there and we accept with good grace the fact that you had the numbers. The majority decision of the Parliament always carries with it my respect and you of course automatically attract to yourself that respect by virtue of the fact that you are the chosen representative of the majority. But, sir, this brings me at once to the very question of the position of Parliament in relation to the executive arm of government. 
The executive arm of government itself, the Ministers, should remember occasionally that in politics they are birds today and feather dusters tomorrow. They should remember that they are just as much a part of the Parliament as is the most humble newly arrived backbencher. Therefore every member of this Parliament is beholden to remember that we are living in peace and tranquility and in a state of law and order in this country today because we have the institution of Parliament- because we have a thing called the Parliament. But if the Parliament is to be treated with the scant respect with which the executive arm of government, of parties from both sides of the Parliament have been guilty of treating it and if they are to go on treating the Parliament with the contempt with which they have treated it, they will find that the Parliament which alone stands between the rule of law and the rule of the street will collapse and they will go down with it. The executive arm must realise that it has more to gain by preserving the status and the proud position of Parliament than has the private backbencher of the Parliament. 
-The honourable gentleman is smiling at the thought of it. He says: 'We will take government to the streets'. That means that the honourable gentleman, like so many out there in the street, believes that it would not be a bad idea. The more we see of the way in which the Parliament is being abused and being treated with utter contempt by the Executive the more we begin to understand that this institution to which we belong is a very fragile one. It is so fragile that it will collapse unless the Executive starts to return to it the prestige, the power and the position which the people's Parliament is entitled to hold. 
It has been the people's respect for the institution of Parliament that has saved us from the violence of revolution and the law of the street. It has been nothing else. It has just been the people's inane respect for a parliament which most people, foolishly, still think is the supreme power in the land. If the people of the country knew how the Parliament was being treated by the Executive- like the rubber stamp that it has become- they would no longer give us the respect that they, in their ignorance, now give to us. But the veil of ignorance is being torn aside, mainly by the arrogance of Ministers and the arrogance of Prime Ministers. The people are beginning to question whether the thing in which they had such faith for so many generations is something worthy of continued faith. 
Unless something is done to change the relationship between the Parliament and the Executive arm of government the people will not be entitled to continue to have the faith they now have in the Parliament, because the Parliament will be an expensive rubber stamp that ought to be cast to one side. If we are to have a dictatorship by one man let us get rid of the tomfoolery of pretending that we have a democracy. Nobody wants to dispense with the great institution which has stood the test of time and which for 600 years has given to the English-speaking people of the world the proud distinction of their being the only people in the whole world who have true government of the people, by the people, for the people. We have not got that system any more. We now have government of the people by a dictatorship or a faked democracy for the benefit of the privileged few. The Parliament is no longer a people 's parliament. 
Until 11 November 1975 a majority of our people always believed that social justice and reform could be won by constitutional means per medium of the Parliament. I was one of those people. I am beginning to doubt now that it is possible to bring about social justice and reform through the institution of Parliament. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  in particular, is treating the Parliament with utter contempt and disdain. If he is prepared to treat it in that way, why should he expect those outside to do otherwise? 
All Prime Ministers have done it; not only the present Prime Minister. The one before him did it; the one before him; the one before him; and the one before him. Of course they do it. Prime Ministers, irrespective of parties, are all arrogant despots. Once they become Prime Minister they have absolutely no regard for the Parliament. They have absolutely no regard for the Cabinet. They have no regard for the Ministry. 
A Minister who wants to get on under this socalled parliamentary democracy has to be a cringing, crawling cur to the Prime Minister. He has no future if he is not. This applies especially in the Liberal Party. A Liberal member cannot get into the Cabinet unless he crawls his way into it like some termite. At least in the Labor Party members are elected to the Cabinet. A Labor Prime Minister cannot say who can be in the Cabinet or out of it. It is true that the last Labor Prime Minister sacked three of those who were elected by the Caucus. It was done apparently on the basis of the Prime Minister saying: 'The Caucus can elect, but I can reject'. Fortunately, the Caucus has changed its rules. It has now stated clearly that no Minister elected by the Caucus shall ever again be sacked as were Cairns, Cameron and Connor, unless the sacking is done with the approval of three of the four parliamentary leaders and then endorsed by a special meeting of Caucus. At least we have put our house in order, but the Government's house is not in order. 
All members opposite know that there is no future for a Liberal back bencher unless he is prepared to become a yes man to the Prime Minister of the day. When I look around the chamberI notice that the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr N. A. Brown)  is in the chamber at the moment- I see brilliant young men rotting in the back benches while secondraters, nincompoops and yes men are sitting on the front bench. They are there for one reason only. They have been yes men and lickspittles for the Prime Minister. It makes me say that it is time the Parliament sat up and had a good look at itself and had a good look at what Prime Ministers are doing to the Parliament. 
The Executive has permitted the erosion of its own power. The Parliament has allowed the Executive to emasculate the Parliament's power. Prime Ministers have allowed themselves to be seduced and flattered, almost to a point of insensibility, by the expert flatterers in the Public Service. We can hear them now saying: 'Good morning, Prime Minister. Yes, Prime Minister. No, Prime Minister. Would you like me to brush your boots, Prime Minister? Prime Minister, is the sun in your eyes, sir? Prime Minister, I think that you ought to have a talk to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations because I have a letter here from a very influential person telling me that the Minister is being a little too soft on the unions, Prime Minister'. And the Prime Minister loves it. Every time public servants call him 'Prime Minister' their status goes higher and higher. 'What can I do for this great man?', says the Prime Minister at the end of the year. A knighthood? 'No, I would rather have the money', says the man. Of course the public servant is elevated and goes further and further up the scale. He becomes a level 1, then a level 2, a level 3 and a level 4. Finally the great day arrives when he becomes a First Division officer. This happens all because he said 'Prime Minister' often enough at the right time. The Prime Minister's head gets as big as a boarding house pudding. He then thinks he is as great as the polished flatterers in the Public Service tell him he is. He thinks he is so much greater than the rest of the Ministry that he treats them with the disdain that a man who is as great a man as he is made out to be ought to treat them. So the whole thing becomes a shambles. 
I do not mind members of the Executive allowing the Prime Minister to stick the boot into them. I do not mind members of the Executive allowing the Prime Minister to trample on them and to treat them like dirty rags if that is what they feel like. Any thing for the money. I do not mind. That is their business. I object though when the Executive treats the Parliament like a dirty rag. I object to the Executive using the power of party discipline to force Parliament to subjugate its own rights and to grovel in the dirt at the feet of an Executive that ought to be its servant. The party system, I believe, forces the Parliament to debase itself every time the Parliament permits the Executive to tell the Parliament what moneys it will be permitted to spend on its own needs and on its needs to serve the people. 
If we are to succeed in restoring the Parliament to its proper position of power, we must begin by lifting the status of the person we elect to be our  Speaker.  I do not refer to 'the Speaker'; I refer to 'our  Speaker',  whoever he is, whether it be  Sir Bill  Snedden or  Sir Clyde  Cameron. Whoever is elected by this Parliament to be the  Speaker  is not just the  Speaker  from one side; he is our  Speaker.  We have a right to respect him while he is in that position. It is our duty to see that his status is upheld. It is our duty to stand up and revolt against any attempt to demean him, to belittle him or to erode his position of prestige. 
The role of the  Speaker  has been allowed to deteriorate, and the role of the Parliament has deteriorated with it. The deterioration of the role of  Speaker  began about 1920- more than two generations ago- and steadily we have allowed it to get worse and worse. As we have allowed the status of the  Speaker  to be reduced we have unwittingly allowed, whether we know it or not, our own status to be reduced, because our status rests with the Chair. The status of that Chair determines what our status is, and the independence of this Parliament over the Executive is determined by the extent to which the Chair is independent of the Executive. The  Speaker  should have the discretion to accept or to reject a motion for the gag or a motion that a certain elected member of the Parliament should no longer be heard. The  Speaker  should have the right to say: 'I reject the motion. Whether you are the Leader of the House or the Prime Minister, I am here to protect the rights of the elected members of this Parliament. I refuse to accept the motion. The honourable member will resume his remarks.' The Standing Orders can provide for that. By a simple amendment to the Standing Orders we can at once give that power to the  Speaker,  and we ought to do it. It is a parody of parliamentary democracy that we, the members of the Parliament itself, allow somebody outside the Parliament to fix our Speaker's salary. 
I agree. It is disgraceful. There is no other democratic system in the world in which the Parliament or the Congress allows an outside body to determine the salary of its  Speaker.  It is a disgraceful thing and we ought to hang our heads in shame that we allow it to be done. The Speaker's salary should be fixed by the Parliament itself. 
-Hear, hear! I am glad to hear the honourable member say it. The fact that the Executive has permitted our  Speaker  to be reduced to the salary status of a junior Minister and to a status even below a junior Minister in regard to travel facilities is symbolic of the Executive's contempt for the Parliament. The office of  Mr Speaker  does not even appear on the VIP flight list that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  holds in his office to determine who shall be entitled to a VIP flight when the urgency of the situation demands it. Speakers of the House of Commons have always enjoyed the status of a senior Minister. Never have they been below the status of a senior Minister. A senior Minister in the United Kingdom considers that there are only two positions higher than his own at which he can aim. One is to be Prime Minister and the other is to be  Speaker  of the House of Commons. 
Speakers in England are not seen as party hacks as we have forced them to become here. They remain in office even with a change of government. They are not opposed in the House of Commons after an election and they are not even opposed by the Government or the opposition parties on the hustings during a general election. The more independent of party politics we can make our Speaker, the more independent will be the Parliament. The more independent the Parliament, the more dependent the Executive arm will be upon the power of Parliament. As things now stand, the Executive determines what money we receive for capital expenditure, staff salaries and for the work of the parliamentary committees. We can appoint parliamentary committees until we are blue in the face but that little coterie down there having their legs pulled by the public servants in the Treasury can say: 'You can appoint your committees but we will not give them any money to operate. You will not be able to employ a secretary; you will not be able to go overseas to investigate whatever you might need to investigate because we control the Parliament; the Parliament is our rubber stamp and no more.' 
It is contempt of members. The Parliament can set up whatever committees it likes but always the Executive arm can prevent them from operating. The  Speaker  now determines the staff, for the Parliament but the Treasury tells him whether the money will be provided for that staff. The  Speaker  has the right to approve capital expenditure, but the little tinpot public servants in Treasury tell the Speakerthat is, they tell us- whether the money is to be made available. One former  Speaker  told me that when he wrote to the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet to try to obtain money to make it possible for members of this Parliament to have rooms to themselves he did not even enjoy the respect of receiving a reply. Never did he receive a reply from the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet, so contemptuous was the Department of the letter that the  Speaker  sent. The Governor-General's message relating to Supply for Parliament should be on the advice of the  Speaker. 
The Constitutional point that the High Court would have to resolve- I am sure it would resolve it in favour of the Parliament itselfwould determine whether the  Speaker  is the person who recommends to us what we should spend on our Parliament. The crowning indignity of all- I do not know whether it is true- was the rumour that went around last year that the Prime Minister actually had the hide, the damn cheek and audacity, to tell the  Chairman  of the Remuneration Tribunal what salaries he thought members of Parliament should receive. The Government, the Executive arm, ought to keep its nose out of the question of parliamentary salaries. It is not a matter for the Executive arm to determine; it is a matter for this Parliament alone. If this Parliament chooses to appoint the Remuneration Tribunal to do it, the Government, the Prime Minister and the Executive arm ought to keep their greedy well-paid noses out of the affairs of the Tribunal and allow it to make its decisions unimpeded by the authority of the Prime Minister and the Executive arm of government. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I begin my remarks by saying, without any hesitation at all, that I deplore the action of certain members of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association in refusing to allow people outside the closed circles of the Public Service to come in and be employed in matching job placements and the like. I think it is an absolute disgrace that class 8 public servants on $17,000 a year should be able to stand up and say to this Government: 'So far as we are concerned we are the government of the country, not you. We have decided that thousands of unemployed people are to go without the opportunity of getting a job; they are to go without the right to be paid unemployed benefit because we, the class 8 members of the Public Service on $ 1 7,000 a year, believe that we are more important than the hundreds of thousands of unemployed people in this country'. I hope that they will not be allowed to say that this old school-tie system of recruitment shall go on for ever and ever. Of course the class 4 people who are to be recruited at $ 1 1 ,000 a year ought to be drawn from industry, because they know something about the needs of the unemployed. 
However, that was not what I really meant to talk about. I want to refer to an even more disgraceful state of affairs than that, and that is the appointment of John Kerr to the position of Ambassador in Paris. Here we have a man who, after a miserable 3Vi years of office as GovernorGeneral, is qualified for a pension of more than $30,000 a year. No wonder he retired; he receives a bigger pension than his salary. He was allowed to retire on a pension of more than $30,000 a year, with the Government paying for two first class seats for Lady Kerr to fly overseas while pregnant wives of certain public servants are given a single economy class seat for the same journey. Yet Lady Kerr was lounging back in two seats at taxpayers expense because she says she cannot get a comfortable ride in a first class compartment while travelling around the world. But that is not all. He has now been given a job which is nothing more than the resurrection of a sinecure. It was never anything but a sinecure. It was abolished altogether by this Government. It has now been re-established just to make a job for Kerr. While this Government is telling Kerr that he can have his $30,000 a year pension for a 316-year stint at Yarralumla with all taxes and all expenses paid for, with free grog and free food, he is to be given - 
-Will the Prime Minister give an assurance that in future the Executive arm of government will seek the view of  Mr Speaker  on the estimates for the House of Representatives before submitting them to the Parliament for approval and, in the event of there being any difference between the estimates submitted and those sought by  Mr Speaker,  will he report those differences to the Parliament for resolution? 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes. I refer to today's issue of the  Sydney Morning Herald  which gives an account of what I said yesterday.  Mr Ian  Frykberg has written again in the  Sydney Morning Herald,  saying that he checked with some members of the Executive before he wrote his story of which I originally complained and that they said that I had been criticised together with other people. He goes on to say: 
One source said that it was felt that  Mr Clyde  Cameron's public statements critical of  Mr Whitlam  had not helped Labor's credibility in the election. 
After  Mr Cameron's  statement yesterday I checked again with this source,- source ' in the singular; one person- who confirmed my original story. 
The original story was that I had been criticised by members of the Federal Executive of the Australian Labor Party for my criticism of  Mr Whitlam.  The article continues: 
He did say- 
This is the source with whom  Mr Frykberg  checked yesterday- that  Mr Cameron  was not singled out for a special discussion but was mentioned during general discussions. 
Since yesterday I have checked with other members of the Federal Executive. I can say now that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  denies also that I was criticised by any member of the Executive for anything.  Mr Howard  O'Neill, the secretary of the South Australian branch of the Australian Labor Party who was present, also supports the statements given to me by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and the national secretary of the Party,  Mr Combe,  to the effect that I was not criticised for anything by anybody. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  who has been a member of the Executive for a long time and whom I am pleased to say has been a lifelong friend of mine - 
-He has long been a friend of mine. He told me last night that he had spoken to  Mr Frykberg.  I presume that  Mr Frykberg  telephoned him and he confirmed this morning that he had not confirmed to Frykberg that the statement Frykberg published was a fact. I accept the assurance of the honourable member for Port Adelaide. I accept also the statement made to me a few minutes ago by the honourable member for Port Adelaide that there is probably no doubt at all that there is one person who was at that meeting who is telling, and did tell in the first instance,  Mr Frykberg  the lying statement that was published and who has since, according to  Mr Frykberg  's article published this morning, confirmed it. I can say only this:  Mr Frykberg's  source, whatever it might be or whoever it might be, is a cowardly liar who will deliberately defame a colleague in return for a free meal and a gutful of grog. If  Mr Frykberg  is wise he will break off his association with his source or if that cannot be done, he will discount his leaks as nothing more than the meanderings of a person with a diseased mind who wants to use the Press to do the dirty work that he is too cowardly to do himself. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether there is any truth in reports that in August 1974 the Australian Broadcasting Commission increased the paid recreation leave of its General Manager to five weeks a year and that at its meeting in February 1975, after noting the General Manager's assertion that he then had 78 days accumulated leave, it decided to grant him special permission to breach the strictly enforced rules of the Australian Public Service Board that accumulated leave in excess of eight weeks shall be forfeited by providing that, upon his retirement, he would be entitled to a cash credit for his leave entitlement for his last year of service, plus untaken credits brought forward from the preceding year and, in addition, half of all untaken recreation leave accummulated in respect of earlier years? 
Does the right honourable gentleman realise that if these reports are correct, the General Manager could retire at 60 years of age in October 1981 and, even if his present salary of $37,000 were frozen at its present level, could collect a lump sum of $27,000 for annual leave alone, to say nothing of untaken furlough? Does he agree that if this precedent remains unchallenged it will not be long before Public Service organisations demand the same entitlement for all public servants? Will he act to see that furlough, as well as recreation leave, is taken within two years of its falling due? 
-I seek your indulgence,  Mr Speaker.  As a member of the Committee of Privileges, I wish to quote from Erskine May's Parliamentary Practice on the priority which reports by committees of privileges must be given over all other matters. At page 353 it states: 
In view of the requirement that a matter of privilege should be raised at the earliest opportunity it is generally brought on without notice. But provided there has been no undue delay, the claim to priority of such a matter is not prejudiced merely on the ground that it has been possible to place a motion dealing with it upon the Notice Paper. 
The same treatment is accorded to a matter of privilege if, through the adjournment of the debate on the motion in which it is embodied, it becomes an order of the day. The priority of a notice of motion or order of the day relating to a matter of privilege is not prejudiced by the fact that the day on which it is to be raised is a day on which, under an order of the House, government business has precedence. 
I pause to make this point: It is noted that May says that even Government Business cannot take precedence over a report of a committee of privileges. But when the committee has its report ready to present to the Parliament and does so the consideration of the report takes precedence over all other matters before the Parliament. Even Government Business has no precedence over it. May's  Parliamentary Practice  continues: 
A motion that the report of a committee on a matter of privilege be now taken into consideration or a substantive motion expressing the agreement or disagreement of the House with the report has been accorded the priority assigned to a matter of privilege unless there has been undue delay in bringing it forward; such a motion is either placed at the head of the Paper immediately after any 'notices of motions at the commencement of public business', or if placed lower in the list, may be taken as if it stood first. A Member was not held to have delayed unduly if he waited until the report of, and the minutes of the evidence taken before, the Committee had been printed and circulated. When a report has been appointed for consideration on a future day, it will be given priority as a matter of privilege on the day so appointed. 
The Standing Orders, until altered by this Parliament, are virtually a part of the Commonwealth Constitution. The Constitution provides that the Standing Orders of the House of Commons shall continue to operate in this Parliament until such time as the Parliament itself determines to alter them. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Sinclair's)  be agreed to. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Prime Minister, by saying that there will be widespread public support for the Government's action in putting the pruning knife through the surplus senior public servants in the Public Service Board. Will the right honourable gentleman give an undertaking to this Parliament that he will not yield to the opposition that he can expect to be generated in the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association to the action to be taken? Will he give a further undertaking that he will now carefully examine all other departments and government agencies, instrumentalities, statutory authorities and the like to see what other divisions can be abolished or amalgamated, so that the enormous cost of maintaining highly-paid senior public servants in jobs that are unnecessary and could be done with greater economy, can be effected? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 2 May 1978: 
What was the total amount of letters of credit established for import transactions in each of the years 1969-70 to 1 976-77, inclusive. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 2 May 1978: 
What is the normal practice used by the Reserve Bank to advise the Government of (a) the amount of letters of credit established each month for import transactions and (b) the total amount of these letters current each month. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 2 May 1978: 
1 ) Is the Reserve Bank supplied with figures which enable it to calculate the total amount of letters of credit established for import transactions current at the end of each month. 
If so, what was the. total for each month from 1 January 1970 up to the latest month for which figures are available. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Health. Are any of the Vietnamese refugees now being permitted to enter Australia former prostitutes and drug pedlars, some of whom are suffering from a venereal disease which is resistant to all known antibiotics? Is it true that there has been an outbreak of a certain strain of non-specific, non.gonoccochal urethritis attributed to contact with Vietnamese refugees, for which there is no known permanent cure? Is it true that NSU or NGU as this disease is more commonly known cannot be detected in some cases until a month or six weeks after contracting the disease? Are tests being made within four weeks and again within six weeks to make sure that people with this incurable disease are not entering this country? Has the Minister read an article in the  Medical Journal of Australia  of 22 April 1978 which points out that as a result of a study of NGU it was concluded that in view of the pruritic and other complications of tetracycline therapy there is a proportion of urea plasmas which are resistant to tetracyclines? 
I rise to express my concern, which is shared by many millions of Australian people, about the number of Vietnamese who are invading our shoreline and about the Government's failure to do anything to prevent it. If these people were genuine refugees one would feel sorry for them and would want something to be done to help them. But the vast majority of them are not genuine refugees. They are people who have chosen voluntarily to leave their own country, in some cases by hijacking vessels to do so. Many of them are very wealthy. Many of them have come to Australia with bars of gold. 
An officer of the Bank of New South Wales in Adelaide told me that many of them who have arrived in Adelaide have come to the bank with bars of gold for sale. He or his staff have been required to tell them where they could sell them to a gold dealer. Others have come into the country with many tens of thousands of dollars worth pf diamonds. 
These are rich people who have been racketeers, drug peddlars and, in some cases, prostitutes in their own country and who have not found it possible to fit in with the new lifestyle. It is not good enough; it does not fit the definition of refugee, for a person in Chile, Bangladesh, India, Malaya, Singapore, the Philippines or Indonesia to say that he would be four times better off in Australia on the unemployment benefit than he is in his own country, unemployed or even working for six or seven days a week, and therefore he will get into a boat to go to Australia and help himself to the social service benefits of the Australian taxpayer. That is what is happening in relation to the Vietnamese. 
The other feature of the situation that worries me is that I am certain- the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs has not told me this but I am certain for reasons which I cannot disclose- that the action of the government does not have the support of the Department. I do not believe it has the support even of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar).  It is a decision that is being imposed upon both the Minister and the Department. 
I turn now to the question of disease, leaving aside the fact that these people are not refugees in the true sense. It has now been brought to my notice that some of them are riddled with a form of venereal disease that cannot be cured, that is resistant to all known antibiotics. It is a form of VD which is not only gonococcal but also nongonococcal in nature. There is no known cure for it. It is a virulent disease, it is highly infectious. Although people will say that there has been evidence in Australia for several years of the disease from Saigon known as Saigon Rose the fact remains that another one is now being brought into the country, allegedly via the so-called refugees. A young man who contracted it and has not been able to cure himself of it attempted to commit suicide not very many days ago because of the disgrace and because he sees himself condemned for life. 
What is the Government doing to stop this? The Government ought to put these refugees in quarantine for at least six weeks- it cannot be done any quicker- until it can guarantee that they are not suffering from this incurable venereal disease. If they are found to be suffering they ought to be sent back. Never mind about the niceties of sending people back to somewhere they do not like. There would not be a person in the whole of South East Asia who would not come here and finally force himself on us if we did not make it clear that we are flat out trying to look after our own people. 
-The honourable member says that it is a bit rough to be shot for having venereal disease. 
-I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
I compliment the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins)  and the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  who have just completed their addresses. I agree with everything they have said. I rise to object to the fact that this is the second occasion that this Department has allowed Parliamentary Counsel to draw up a Bill in which in one single clauseclause 7- they have grouped together 24 subject headings consisting of 198 lines in the Bill, and in the next clause- clause 8- they have brought together 14 subject headings running into 224 lines. I warn Parliamentary Counsel that if they ever do this again while I am in this Parliament, I will use the forms of the House to demand a division by moving an amendment on each single item or subject heading within the clause, and I will expose Counsel for what they are- no longer the servants of the Parliament but now the servants of the executive arm. Parliamentary Counsel have treated this Parliament in the most cavalier, most impolite and, I believe, most discourteous manner. They are treating us with absolute contempt. 
If it is the Government which suggested to Counsel that they ought to group together 24 subject headings and 198 lines into one clause, and then turn to the next clause and group 14 subject headings with 224 lines, they ought to tell the Government that they are the servants of the Parliament and not the lackeys of the executive arm. 
Tonight honourable members have seen the sobering effect of the guilt conscience that is strickening the voices of Government members who have participated in this debate. The honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck),  the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)  and the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  who has just spoken have delivered reasonable speeches for the first time that I can recall, except that the honourable member for Darling Downs on one occasion a fair while ago delivered a reasonable speech. Tonight we have heard them at their best. Because there is a sense of decency about some of the things they have said I compliment them on the sensible things they have said and I shall try to forget the silly things. They had to say something silly to support a Bill like this. 
I thank the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  for the generous reference he made to me in his second reading speech. He paid tribute to my work in setting up the Trade Union Training Authority and he also said, and I thought it was generous of him to do so, that it was fitting that I should be remembered permanently in the name of the National Trade Union Training College- the Clyde Cameron college. It was the proudest achievement of my three years as a Minister. I shall always be grateful to the permanent head of the Department,  Dr Ian  Sharpe, as he then was, for proposing that the college be named after me and for the fact that it was Bob Hawke, the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, who, seconded the resolution. I am grateful for the support that I received from the Australian Council for Union Training, the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  and the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  in this place. 
I am not going to let this opportunity pass without paying a tribute to the Minister. He is not behind this proposition; his heart is not in it. The thrust has not come from the Minister. The Minister has tried to support what the trade unions want. But, he is too loyal to his Government even to acknowledge that what I am saying is true. I thank the Minister for the amount of finance he made available in the first year of his ministry to enable the Clyde Cameron college to be completed, at a time when the Labor Government's budget for TUTA had been much lower than the amount the Minister finally agreed to in the first year he was a Minister. I am not going to allow anyone to have any doubts about where I stand in relation to the Minister's role. 
The Committee of Inquiry was appointed for the purpose of advising the Government. Everyone was led to believe that the Government would act on the recommendations of the Committee. The Committee of Inquiry took evidence all around Australia from a lot of people. Then, right at the death knock, right at the end of the consideration by the Committee of Inquiry the bureaucrats in the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations put in a last minute submission which roughly represents the very proposition that honourable members have now ultimately been asked to consider. No one else wanted what is now proposed. 
The peak unions, the trades and labour councils did not ask for it, nor did the employers ask for it. The Minister did not ask for it. The Committee did not ask for it. In the debate so far no one has ever suggested, and no one can, that the amendments now proposed will improve the standard of tuition. No one has said that the amendments will increase the number of participants. No one has said that they will save money. Indeed, the standard of tuition and the level of involvement, which have so far exceeded the wildest expectations, will diminish, rather than increase, now that this is seen for what it is- an instrument for the National Civic Council. 
I shall elaborate on that and show that the thrust for the proposition has come from Tony Macken and the National Civic Council and the secret agents of the National Civic Council who have been strategically placed within the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations for the last generation. I repeat that the cost will not be reduced, it will be increased, because it is now proposed to feather bed and bureaucratise the organisation at greatly increased cost and with greatly reduced efficiency. 
When he was first appointed I told Peter Matthews that I thought his salary, which is fixed at level 2 of the second division of the Commonwealth Public Service, was far too much. We could have got Peter Matthews at class 10 salary of the Third Division. He would have been glad to take the job because his heart was in it. One never gets a successful director who takes the job only because of the money he will receive for it. I told the head of my Department that in no circumstances should the salary for the director be fixed at higher than class 10. Peter Matthews knows that I said that. 
Though honourable members have not been told what the salaries will now be, it can be assumed that the salary for the director of studies will not be reduced as a result of this Bill. One can assume that he will keep his level 2 salary. And in order that the national director, that is the director of the supreme body, will be able to give orders- and because due to the bureaucratic structure of the public service one cannot give an ord  n  to someone else who is getting a zack more than he is getting; it can be assumed that the remuneration tribunal will fix the position of national director at level 3. It is time this matter was looked at especially by a government talking so much about cutting down the Public Service and saving the money of the taxpayers, bearing in mind the enormous payout in salaries to public servants. This is a payoff to Tony Macken and the NCC. I have already said that. Inside the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations there are key men who are directly tied to the NCC. Ted Dunphy 's son-in-law was advising the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  as he now is, when he was the Liberal Party spokesman on industrial relations. He was feeding NCC poison into the Prime Minister and into the Department, and is now trying to force the Minister to take it as well. 
It is no use anybody saying that the peak unions and the trades and labour councils are seeking to politicise TUTA. Nothing at all can be produced to substantiate a charge like that. The people who are guilty of politicising TUTA are the National Civic Council and its stooges inside the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. I give this warning to the Government and to the National Civic Council which now controls the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations: It will be a pyrrhic victory for the National Civic Council, for the Department and for the Government because the bureaucrats in the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations will now be seen for what they really are- bitterly anti-trade union, and fanatically pro-NCC. They have succeeded in winning this battle but the bureaucrats in the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations have lost the war of being able to convince organised labour that it is has anything to offer the trade union movement. The very act of pushing the Minister into proposing something that the employers, the unions, the Minister and the Committee of Inquiry did not ask for, but which was contained in the last minute submission that the NCC put in to the Committee of Inquiry, is the last straw. The Government will never now be able to convince organised labour that it has anything at all to offer the trade union movement. 
This legislation will be seen as the hallmark of anti-labour activities by a department that ought to be pro-labour. If it is all right for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs to be pro-Aborigine, if it is all right for the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development to be pro-environmentalists, if it is all right for the Department of Industry and Commerce to be in favour of industry and commerce, if it is all right for the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs to be pro-business and consumer affairs and for the Department of Veterans' Affairs to be pro-veteran what is wrong with the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations being pro-labour? I saw nothing wrong with it when I was a Minister. I believe it was right for Ken Wriedt to go out and screech his head off on behalf of the cockies; and I had a right to go out and defend organised labour as the then Minister for Labour and Immigration. The officers of the Department have sown the wind and they and the Minister and the Government will reap the whirlwind. 
The honourable member for Darling Downs made a good speech for a National Country Party member. He is emerging now as one of the most radical of the National Country Party members. He was one of the worst when he first came here. He has gradually learnt, by listening to people such as me, how wrong he was when he first came here. He said a lot of sensible things about employment and trade union training. Honourable members should not think that when I established the trade union Training Authority all the trade unionists went on their hands and knees and prayed for me or kissed my shoes or did whatever people do when they want to show their appreciation. Not at all. I once had a meeting with trade unionists at which Peter Matthews was present and when Harold Souter found out that Matthews had been here to talk to me about introducing a system of trade union training he telephoned me to tell me in no uncertain manner that Matthews had no authority to speak for the Australian Council of Trade Unions on trade union training. Ask Norm Gallagher what he thinks of trade union training. He will say that it is a foul capitalist plot thought up by Clyde Cameron to soften the future leadership of the trade union movement. That is Gallagher's idea of my proposal. 
I had no support from any substantial section of the trade union movement anywhere in Australia, from either right, left or centre, because the trade union movement saw it as being a foul capitalist plot to subvert its future leadership. It was only when I was prepared to offer the trade union movement complete control of the organisation and said 'we will fund it and you can have complete control over the curricula and the syllabus and the election and appointment of the people who will do the job' that the movement was finally prepared to come in and become part of it. If the Government intends taking that away from them it is the surest way of killing this scheme. But it is doing it and is doing it with a vengeance. Not only is it insisting on a stacked executive committee with the casting vote of its appointed chairman deciding every issue; it is adding insult to injury by demanding that the trade unions send it a panel of names of double the number required to be represented on the council or executive body, so that it can hand pick the trade unionists it would like to see on those bodies. 
I know what the idea of the National Civic Council is. Its idea is to have this device so that if the trade union movement nominates anybody that it does not like it can put the cleaner through the list of nominations and end up with a purely pro-National Civic Council body in charge of everything. The National Civic Council will be able to do what it falsely accuses us of doing now. It will politicise the organisation to make it teach the philosophy of the National Civic Council. 
The honourable member for Darling Downs said that employers have helped the college by giving paid study leave. That is true and I pay tribute to the employers who have done this. I pay special tribute to Gordon Jackson of C.S.R. Ltd, to Brian Loton of Broken Hill Pty Ltd, to Rod Carnegie and many other captains of industry who have been able to see what the Government cannot see and what the National Civic Council will not see; namely, that if we are ever to get trade union leaders who are efficient, sophisticated and able to give sensible leadership to the trade union movement we will have to start training them now. When I first introduced this proposal I said that it probably would take 10 years before the harvest of leaders from the Clyde Cameron College and from the State training centres would be wide enough to make the desired impact upon the thinking of the trade union movement. We will not get any immediate results. We will have to wait until there are enough graduate trade union leaders and future trade union leaders on the factory floor and on the floor at union meetings to make their presence felt. For too many years union meetings have been sparsely attended with all the talking coming from the table. That has been the trouble with union meetings. 
I am critical of the way in which union meetings are conducted because generally speaking the only people at union meetings now who are able to talk with any confidence are those at the table and an occasional sprinkling of graduates from the 
Clyde Cameron College who are beginning to get enough confidence to stand up and speak. However, we will not get this result if we end up with the Clyde Cameron College appearing to be the sepulchre of the NCC. There is no way that we will get it then. 
I have mentioned the captains of industry. I want now to pay tribute to  Mr Justice  Terry Ludeke who telephoned me from his sick bed in the Sydney Hospital on the day that the Clyde Cameron College was opened. He tendered an apology and indicated to me how wholeheartedly he was behind the concept of trade union training. He was not asking for what the NCC is now asking, in spite of the fact that in his balmier days he is alleged to have been an NCC supporter.  Sir John  Moore is not asking for it. I have not met anyone of any consequence who is asking that we destroy the union control of the Clyde Cameron College or the Trade Union Training Authority generally. 
The honourable member for Darling Downs made a valid point, I am prepared guiltily to concede, when he said: 'We are only doing the same as the Labor Government did with the Wool Corporation when it made us supply it with a list of names of wool growers so that it could pick the names of the people that it wanted'. I concede that the honourable member made a valid point. He criticised what we did then and he was right then; but he is wrong now for wanting to do what he then condemned. He also said that employers should be able to make some sort of input to trade union training. I think that is an absurd suggestion. To allow employer representatives to sit on the Australian Council for Union Training is like demanding that the Catholic Education Office in each state should accept the Grandmaster of the Freemasons Lodge on its board of control and demanding also that as catholic education is being given millions of dollars of Federal funds a government-dominated board ought to be appointed and made answerable directly to the Minister to decide what the syllabi, curricula and appointments shall be in all the catholic colleges and schools in Australia. In other words, because the catholic schools are getting Federal funds they should be controlled by bureaucrats that we should put Jack Mundey or the head of the Orange Lodge on the board just to keep them honest. This is setting a precedent but if it is the sort of precedent that the Government wants, let us do it thoroughly. If this precedent is to be accepted who could say that we are being inconsistent if we say that the Catholic church should be put under the control of a bunch of bureaucrats who would tell it how it should spend Federal funds? 
-Because the Catholic church is getting more in the way of educational grants than any other church, but we could say that the Presbyterian church should be treated in the same way. I have mentioned the Catholic church because the National Civic Council prides itself on being the authentic voice of the Catholic church on Catholic social doctrine. It is not, of course. 
I am glad that the honourable member has repudiated it. The bishops, of course, have repudiated it, but that does not stop  Mr Bob  Santamaria from posing as spiritual adviser to Belloc House. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice on 2 May 1978: 
1 ) Has any public servant attached to his Department with a salary level approximating the salary of a clerk (a) Class 5, (b) Class 6, (c) Class 7, (d) Class 8, (e) Class 9, (f) Class 10, or (g) Class 1 1 of the Third Division of the Australian Public Service been issued with a diplomatic passport. 
) If so, what are the particulars. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 2 May 1978: 
What percentage of the total amount of letters of credit established for import transactions were approved by (a) the 
Reserve Bank, (b) the Commonwealth Trading Bank and (c) each of the other banks authorised to act as an agent of the Reserve Bank during each year since 1 969. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 2 May 1978: 
In what cases are trading banks authorised to approve establishment of letters of credit for import transactions without prior reference to the Reserve Bank. 
asked the Treasurer upon notice, on 2 May 1 978: 
What was the rate of variation in the volume of money broadly known as M3 at the end of each month since 31 December 1969. 
-My question is to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I ask the honourable gentleman whether he is aware of the considerable apprehension among trade union organisations that, in the light of what the Government has already done to alter the structure and the control of the Clyde Cameron College and of the Trade Union Training Authority generally, the Government is planning to cut back, or, if not cut back, to refuse to give an adequate increase in the Budget for the forthcoming year to meet running costs and, more importantly perhaps, capital costs to complete the Clyde Cameron College and to meet the costs of certain capital expenditure which has to be met at the various State training centres. Will the Minister give an assurance that will allay the concern that these trade union organisations now have? 
asked the Treasurer upon notice, on 2 May 1978: 
On how many occasions has the Reserve Bank refused an agent trading bank authority to establish letters of credit for import transactions since 1 January 1970. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 2 May 1978: 
On what dates and by what amounts has the Australian dollar been revalued, or devalued, since 1 January 1970. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 2 May 1978: 
1) Is it a fact that the registered rules of the Australian Workers' Union require that ballots for the election of Federal and Branch officers shall be held at the same times and places but that, subject to certain criteria, the Executive of each Branch may fix a different opening and closing date for these ballots. 
Is it also a fact that, whilst the rules fix 2 1 June as the closing date for Federal and Branch nominations, they do not indicate the year in which nominations close or any date on which these nominations open. 
On the other hand, is it also a fact that the rules specify no opening date for Branch nominations, leaving these dates to be determined by the respective Branch Executives with a requirement that these dates be published in the Union's official journal but that the opening date and the year in which nominations for Federal offices close are not required to be publicised, and in point of fact the opening and closing dates are not advertised in the Union's journal. 
If the position is as stated, can he state the means by which a member of the AWU can discover from the rules (a) a full date on which nominations for Federal positions open and close in each Branch and (b) the opening and closing dates of Federal and Branch ballots in each Branch. 
If, by reference to the Union's rules, he is unable to give the information referred to in part (4), is he satisfied that the rules comply with the policy of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act generally and, in particular, paragraph2(f) of that Act. 
If not, does the Act give the Registrar a specific power to require any modification of registered rules that omit requirements called for in the Act. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 1 5 August 1978: 
Has the Public Service Board finalised its guidelines on court appearances by public servants. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
What is the new staff ceiling for the Australian Bureau of Statistics. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
Will he instruct all members of his Ministry that questions on notice must be answered fairly and fully and that evasion, semantic and technical syntax should not be used as a device for depriving the Parliament of non-security information that is already available to public servants. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
Will he inform all Ministers that the Parliamentary Library is answerable only to the Presiding Officers, the Library Committee and ultimately to the Parliament, that a Minister who seeks to direct the staff of the Parliamentary Library not to give certain information to private members of the Parliament is exceeding his authority and that if this practice is repeated the honourable member for Hindmarsh proposes to take action to charge the offender with contempt of the Parliament. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
How many permanent Commonwealth public servants since Federation have been dismissed for (a) lying or misleading a Minister, or causing a Minister to mislead the Parliament, (b) incompetence, (c) publicly criticising government policy, (d) taking bribes of any kind from persons or bodies benefiting from their administrative decisions and (e) breach of the laws or conventions relating to secrecy. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
1 ) Does his Depanment have a list of the interdepartmental committees appointed since he became Prime Minister. 
If so, (a) how many are there, (b) what is the composition and function of each, and (c) for what period of time has each of them been active. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
1 ) Will he inform the Parliament how many interdepartmental committees were appointed by Cabinet or a Minister in each year since 1 January 1973. 
How many of these committees reported to the Parliament. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 1 5 August 1 978: 
Will he tell the Parliament the date on which the Government was first informed of the policies likely to be put at the multilateral trade negotiations by the United States of America. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
Will he tell the Parliament what approaches were made by the United States of America which were in any way responsible for the decision to permit Vietnamese nationals to enter Australia without permits. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
When will the Government introduce its legislation to amend sections 47c and 82b of the Public Service Act to make it mandatory rather than a matter of discretion for the Board to reinstate an officer who, having resigned to contest a parliamentary election, fails to be elected. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 1 5 August 1978: 
Will he allow the Parliament to see a copy of the departmental reports on which the Government based its offer to reduce tariffs as a bargaining base for the multilateral trade negotiations which commence in Geneva in June 1978. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
Does the Government intend to do anything to curb the greed of the rip-off merchants who fatten on the gap between the hoof price of meat and the price charged to the Australian housewife. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
May an Executive Councillor refresh his memory from documents handled by him personally while holding a commission to administer a particularDepartment. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
What are the criteria used for classifying documents as confidential, secret and top secret, and at what level in each Department is the classification so made. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
1 ) Will he allow the Parliament to see the submission put to the Committee of Inquiry into Trade Union Training by hisDepartment. 
When was that submission put to the Committee. 
What are the names of (a) the originating officer, (b) those officers who edited it and (c) the officer who approved the final text. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
Does hisDepartment still classify documents or information of any kind as not for Minister's eyes, or words to that effect. 
MrKillen- The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It has never been the practice for my department to so classify documents or information. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
Will he table for the information of members of the parliament, the results of tests conducted by the Defence Standards Laboratories which would provide information likely to aid consumer protection. 
MrKillen- The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Tests by the Materials Research Laboratories* (MRL), on products which may be of general consumer interest are carried out for the Armed Services, Commonwealth and State Departments and Instrumentalities, and product manufacturers and wholesalers interested in defence contracts. 
Some reports are too narrow in scope to be of interest to consumers; others contain information that is confidential to the client. In most cases the test reports are internal technical documents which would require editing, modification or perhaps expansion before they were suitable for public dissemination. It would not be appropriate, therefore, for all such test results to be tabled in the Parliament. 
Arrangements have been made, however, for quarterly lists of unclassified tests by MRL, which might have consumer interest, to be provided to the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs. These lists will be given to State and private consumer agencies. If requested the Department of Defence will provide, through the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs, such 'consumer interest' information as can properly be made available. 
* Formerly called ' Defence Standards Laboratories '. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
Will he allow the Parliament to see the calculations, reports and recommendations which formed the basis of the Government's recent decision to permit Ansett Airlines and TAA to impose a further fare increase upon travellers using Australia 's domestic airlines. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
1 ) Is any Government Department supplied with figures which enable the Government to calculate the total amount of letters of credit established for (a) import transactions or (b) other purposes. 
If so, what was the amount for each month since 1 January 1970. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 1 5 August 1 978: 
Does his answer to Question No. 971 (b)(Hansard, 23 May 1978, page 2370) mean that no public servants know the total amount of letters of credit established each month for import transactions. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 5 August 1978: 
Will the Minister table in the Parliament the document which sets out the guidelines governing the exercise of departmental discretions in the administration of the law relating to the functions of the Department of Social Security. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 654. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1652. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1651. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1630. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 648. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1647. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 646. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1632. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1631. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 630. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 627. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 624. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1623. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1622. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 162 1. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect and answer to question No. 1620. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1619. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may 1 expect an answer to question No. 1618. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 6 1 7. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1616. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1615. 
, asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1614. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1613. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 6 1 1 . 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 6 1 0. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 609. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 608. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 563. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 607. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 605. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 602. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 60 1 . 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 600. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 599. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1598. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1597. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 596. 
asked the Prime Minister upon notice, on 14 September 1 978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 595. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 593. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 592. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1591. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 590. 
asked the Prime Minister upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 589. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 588. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1587. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 586. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1585. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1584. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1583. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1582. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1581. 
asked the Prime Minister upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 580. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1 978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1579. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 574. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1572. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 5 7 1 . 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 570. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1569. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 1 4 September 1 978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1568. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1567. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 12 August 1978: 
Are any of the cables received by the Australian Ambassador to the United Nations during the period that the United Nations General Assembly is sitting withheld from the Parliamentary observers attending such sittings. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
Has his Depanment itself conducted any surveys of household expenditure in the past 5 years, or co-operated with any other Branch of Government to do so; if so, when were these surveys conducted. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 S66. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 565. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 364. 
I preface my question to the Prime Minister by referring to an article in today's Melbourne  Sun  which reports the Prime Minister as having denied that he was briefed by  Mr Whitlam  on the reason for the dismissal of the then Director-General of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and that  Mr Whitlam  briefed him on an alleged infiltration of ASIO by the KGB. Since only the Prime Minister and  Mr Whitlam  would be privy to the briefing if it did take place, firstly, will the Prime Minister say whether the report is correct and, secondly, will he state whether he told anybody else about it? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
What was the number of unanswered questions on the Notice Paper at each prorogation of the Parliament since 1971 and how many of these were (a) answered after the prorogation and (b) restored to the Notice Paper at the following Paliament or session. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 1 5 August 1978: 
When did the inter-departmental committee appointed in January 1 973 to study and to report on the then Government's proposed freedom of information legislation complete its report. 
When did that report reach the Government. 
) When was that report tabled in the Parliament. 
Did Cabinet decide that it was desirable to invite public comment on the report and that this proviso be included in the foreword to the report. 
Was such a proviso included in the foreword to the report. 
How many reports were printed and who was responsible for giving the order for such printing. 
Was each Member of the Parliament and each organ of the media supplied with a copy of that report. 
8 ) How many copies of the report were made available to the public. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the fact that towards the end of some week days, particularly on Fridays, the telephone switchboards in some departments are left unattended. 
) Does this arise from an abuse of flexitime. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
1 ) What levels, classes and grades of the Australian Public Service are denied access to the Australian Government Security Handbook. 
Is the Handbook made available to serving members of the Executive Council; if so, how many of the presently serving Executive Councillors have been given access to it. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
1 ) Is it a fact that many Cabinet submissions are dreary, routine and innocuous documents that have no bearing on defence or national security and contain nothing that is detrimental to public interest. 
Will he consider lifting the 50-year blanket of secrecy that applies to Cabinet documents of this category. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 1 5 August 1978: 
Apart from specified exceptions made in writing by an authorised officer, are top secret, secret and confidential documents automatically downgraded at regular periodical intervals until declassified altogether, as in the United States of America. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 1 5 August 1978: 
Are all Ministers given full details of departmental practices and precedents used in the decision-making processes of their respective Departments. 
Is the Ombudsman given the abovementioned information. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
When will he make available to the Parliament all of the information concerning United States-Australian relations which is currently available to (a) the United States Congress and (b) a United States citizen under the United States Freedom of Information Act. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 1 5 August 1978: 
What are the Australian Government Departments that do not present annual reports to the Parliament. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
When was the inter-departmental committee appointed by his Government to study and report on the proposed freedom of information legislation. 
When did the committee complete their report. 
) When was that report tabled in the Parliament. 
How many copies were printed. 
Was each Member of the Parliament and each organ of the media supplied with a copy. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
Will the Minister allow members of the Parliament to see the departmental manuals and internal circulars which are made available to the public servants employed in the Department of Social Security. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
1 ) Is there any information known to public servants in his Department which he will give to (a) Cabinet, (b) an individual Minister and (c) a parliamentary backbencher on the (i) Government benches or (ii) Opposition benches on a confidential basis, which he would not give to the Parliament. 
If so, what are the classifications of such information. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
What are the guidelines used for deciding whether information will, or will not, be given to the Parliament. 
-I preface my question to the Prime Minister by reminding the Parliament that I was the Minister who was responsible for introducing flextime on a trial basis into what was then my Department; I was the Minister who was responsible for ignoring the warnings issued by the Public Service Board against an uncontrolled system of flextime; and I was the Minister who thought he could trust public servants to be honest in their use of flextime. Will the Prime Minister take action, if need be, to appoint an independent outside personnel or management consulting firm to look into the whole operation of flextime in the Public Service, to evolve some means of having a proper control over the starting and finishing times of public servants? Does the Prime Minister know that in recent times I have telephoned the central offices of three departments, including the Public Service Board itself, on a Friday afternoon and have been unable to get an answer from the switchboard? 
asked the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
Is a public servant invalided out of the Public Service and put in receipt of a superannuation pension, lawfully entitled to accept full-time or part-time employment outside the Public Service. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
Is it an offence for a public servant not to behave at all times with courtesy to the public and to give prompt attention to all reasonable requirements. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to Question No. 1 659. 
asked the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to Question No. 1 626. 
asked the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 14 September 1978. 
When may I expect an answer to Question No. 1 625. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on15 August1978: 
What are the dates on which the Loan Council has met since December1972. 
asked the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on15 August1978: 
Will he table for the information of the Parliament the medical guidelines used in the administration of the Superannuation Act. 
asked the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 14 September 1 978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1S94. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on15 August1978: 
) By what monetary amounts, as distinct from percentages, have the salaries of each grade, class and level of Australian public servant with a minimum of 3 years' service in that grade, class or level increased since 30 June1 970. 
By what monetary amounts, as distinct from percentages, have the award rates under the Metal Trades Award increased for (a) a fully qualified toolmaker, (b) a fully qualified fitter and turner and (c) a fully qualified boilermaker with a minimum of 23 years' service in his classification since 30 June1970. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on15 August1978: 
Will he give to the Parliament details of the criteria used by the Commissioner of Taxation for carrying out his various discretions under the Income Tax Assessment Act. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on15 August1978: 
Will he take steps to ensure that the Commissioner of Taxation carries out his legal obligation to report fully to the Parliament on his administration of the Income Tax Assessment Act, including particulars of the extent to which he has taken action under section1 36 of the Act. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on IS August 1978: 
Will he allow members of the Parliament to see the reports given to the Government since 1 January 1976 on tax avoidance schemes including his estimate ofthe loss to revenue of such schemes. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
Did he discuss staff ceilings for the Australian Bureau of Statistics with the Australian Statistician,  Dr R.  J. Cameron. 
If so, did  Dr Cameron  agree with the staff ceilings that have been set. 
What sections will operate with lower staff numbers and with a restricted scope in the year 1978-79. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
What is the reason for disbanding two sections of the Australian Bureau of Statistics, namely, the one dealing with foreign ownership of Australian industry and the one dealing with job vacancies? 
-I seek leave to make a personal explanation because I have been misrepresented. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 66 1 . 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
1 ) How long does a person who entered the country without an entry permit have to remain in Australia before he or she is entitled to social security benefits. 
How many of the Vietnamese who entered Australia without permits are now receiving (a) sickness, (b) unemployment or (c) any other social security benefit. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
1 ) Why did the Government prevent the publication of the consumer protection magazine,  You,  which had been established by the Minister for Science in 1 975. 
How many copies of the first issue were printed and not distributed. 
What was the cost of setting up the first and only issue and what consumer items did it cover. 
Will he give consideration to re-establishing the magazine, ensuring that it does not duplicate surveys carried out by  Choice. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1675. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 674. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services upon notice on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to Question No. 1649. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services upon notice on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to Question No. 1645. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services upon notice on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to Question No. 1644. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to Question No. 1 643. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to Question No. 1642. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 1 4 September 1 978: 
When may I expect an answer to Question No. 1 64 1 . 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to Question No. 1 640. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to Question No. 1 639. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to Question No. 1638. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to Question No. 1 637. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 1 4 September 1 978: 
When may I expect an answer to Question No. 1636. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 1 4 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to Question No. 1 635. 
asked the Treasurer upon notice, on 28 September 1978 
Is the Parliament entitled to a better reply than the one he gave to question No. 1665. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1671. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
What are the criteria for determining the need to know principle. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 670. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to Question No. 1 634. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to Question No. 1633. 

 -Mr Speaker, I should like to speak to the matter of privilege raised by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  I refer to the same point and I ask that when you take into consideration the questions raised by the honourable member for Newcastle you study the publication known as the  Laurie Oakes Report  of 18 October 1978. In it quite serious allegations are made against an honourable member whose name I will not mention because the proceedings of the House are being broadcast. It is alleged that the honourable member concerned had been seen - 
-I am speaking to the same point. 
I will not speak at length. I just draw your attention to the  Laurie Oakes Report  because it puts on this quite serious incident a slant different from that put by the honourable member for Newcastle. It is really a much more serious allegation than the one that the honourable member for Newcastle mentioned. I simply ask that you look at that as well. 
-I seek leave to make a personal explanation on the grounds that I have been misrepresented. 
I refer to an article published in the  Bulletin  of 17 October which purports to be a review of a play by Roger Hall called  Glidetime  or  Flextime.  The article makes this comment: 
Fraser 's sudden concern with flextime was precipitated in the House by Clyde Cameron (Lab. SA) who had telephoned the central offices of three departments one Friday afternoon and had been unable to rouse even a switchboard operator. The Public Service Board later reported that Cameron must have been ringing the wrong numbers or alternatively had telephoned 'after hours.'  On opening night, many public servants in the audience also found it hilariously funny to recognise their associates on stage- if not themselves. 
It is not true that I telephoned the wrong numbers. I did not. I am not as stupid as that. It is not true that I phoned after hours. I would not be so stupid as to do that. If the Public Service Board wishes to judge other people by its own standards that is its business. The fact is that I phoned early on a Friday afternoon. I kept phoning because I was determined to keep an account of how long I had continuously phoned before the switchboard answered. After more than an hour the switchboard answered. It was the switchboard of the Public Service Board. I identified myself to the young lady concerned who will be able to verify this if she chooses to be truthful. I told her that I wanted to speak with a certain officer. I gave his name to her. She said that he was not there but that she would give me his telephone number. I then phoned that number but the officer had flexed off for the afternoon. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 13 September 1978: 
When was the Task Group on Youth Affairs established. 
What are its (a) terms of reference and (b) priority tasks. 
On how many occasions has the Task Group met since it was established. 
Which Departments are represented on the Task Group and what is the level of representation in each case. 
What conclusions has the task force reached concerning youth unemployment and solutions to the problem. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 5 August 1978: 
How do economy fares of Australia's domestic airlines compare with the cheapest domestic air fares charged by the largest carriers in each of the other Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 26 September 1978: 
What kind of cables are withheld from Parliamentary Advisers attending the United Nations General Assembly. 
Why are these cables withheld. 
Who determines what cables shall be withheld from the representatives of the major parties in Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1681. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1679. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1676. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 13 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 669. 
-My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I preface my remarks by saying that his weekend telecast did not do a great deal to enhance my standing with the Hindmarsh federal electorate council. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 13 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1668. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
1 ) Does the Government keep a record of the movements of Vietnamese refugees and Vietnamese who enter Australia illegally. 
If so, how many of the total number involved are (a) in employment and (b) in receipt of any form of social security benefits. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
What is the estimated average weekly cost of travel to places of employment and what is the average time spent in travelling to and from work in each of the capital cities. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 13 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 667. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. I66S. 
asked the Treasurer upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
When will the Parliament receive an answer to question No. 2059 appearing on the Notice Paper in my name in relation to a question which was first put on the Notice Paper on 15 August 1978. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
When will the Parliament receive an answer to question No. 2060 appearing on the Notice Paper in my name in relation to a question which was first put on the Notice Paper on 15 August 1978. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
When will the Parliament receive an answer to question No. 206 1 appearing on the Notice Paper in my name in relation to a question which was first put on the Notice Paper on 15 August 1978. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
When will the Parliament receive an answer to question No. 2062 appearing on the Notice Paper in my name in relation to a question which was first put on the Notice Paper on 15 August. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
When will the Parliament receive an answer to question No. 2063 appearing on the Notice Paper in my name in relation to a question which was first put on the Notice Paper on 15 August 1978. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
When will the Parliament receive an answer to Question No. 2073 appearing on the Notice Paper in my name in relation to a question which was first put on the Notice Paper on 15 August 1978. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 28 September 1978: 
1 ) Does his reply to question No. 1666 mean that he is not prepared to trust the people's Parliament with information known to the people 's public servants. 
) If not, why is he so evasive about the matters raised in the question referred to. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
When will the Parliament receive an answer to question No. 2069 appearing on the Notice Paper in my name in relation to a question which was first put on the Notice Paper on 15 August 1978. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 1 5 August 1 978: 
Are any employees of the Australian Government associated with the Institute for the Study of Conflict in London. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
When will the Government publish the guidelines for official witnesses appearing before Parliamentary Committees. 
asked the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
When will the Parliament receive an answer to question No. 2027 appearing on the Notice Paper in my name in relation to a question which was first put on the Notice Paper on 15 August 1978. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 28 September 1978: 
Will he direct Ministers to follow the examples seto n his own replies to questions Nos 1565, 1566, 1567, 1574,1584, 1586, 1615, 1652 and 1654 instead of adopting evasive and, sometimes, cavalier attitudes towards questions placed on the Parliament's Notice Paper. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 28 September 1 978: 
Will he study the reply given by the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security to question No. 1675 and say whether it complies with the guidelines set out in the reply he gave to question No. 1561. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
Has the Government no lawful right to instruct a public servant to refrain from providing certain information to the Parliament. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
What is the specific sanction that prevents a public servant from selling official data-bank material to a body outside the Public Service. 
asked the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
When will the Parliament receive an answer to question No. 2026 appearing on the Notice Paper in my name in relation to a question which was first put on the Notice Paper on 15 August 1978. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
Is it possible for a public servant convicted of a criminal offence to remain in the Public Service and are homosexual offences disregarded. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
Will he give an assurance that public servants who overindulge in alcohol outside working hours will not be treated differently from other members of the workforce who do so. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
What is the present ratio of (a) Class 4, (b) Class 5, (c) Class 6, (d) Class 7, (e) Class 8, (f) Class 9, (g) Class 10 and (h) Class 1 1, to the total number of persons belonging to the Fourth Division of the Australian Public Service. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
When will the media be given access to the official records relating to the secret history of Australia's involvement in the Vietnam War. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 1 5 August 1 978: 
Will he tell the Parliament whether a 'D' notice was ever issued in relation to news relating to the Indonesian invasion of Timor; if so (a) when was it issued, (b) to what specific information did it relate and (c) by whom was it issued. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
Can he state whether there could be any circumstance under which an officer of any Government Department or agency would be justified in classifying a document or information of any kind as 'not for Prime Minister's eyes', or words to that effect. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
Will he confer with the Presiding Officers on future Budget Estimates for Parliament and allow the Parliament itself to resolve any differences which may develop between himself and the Presiding Officers. 
asked the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 1 5 August 1978: 
1 ) Which of the members of his Ministry have delegated to public servants their constitutional power to supervise and authorise the expenditure of moneys approved by the Parliament. 
Is it a fact that some Second Division Officers have had Ministerial authority delegated to them to spend up to $ 100,000 without reference to the Minister. 
In any event, what are the limits set by the Ministerially delegated authority to the various- Second Division Officers within each department and what limit applies in the case of the Permanent Head. 
asked the Minister for Finance upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
When will the Parliament receive an answer to question No. 1997 appearing on the Notice Paper in my name in relation to a question which was first put on the Notice Paper on 15 August 1978. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1673. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1672. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1 678. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 1 5 August 1978: 
Would he issue a directive to the Public Service Board that the Board bring to the attention of public servants authorised to incur expenditure the provisions of Finance Regulation 93 which requires such officers to exercise due economy in the purchase of goods and services and to see that surplus goods and materials are not disposed of unnecessarily. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 1 5 August 1 978: 
1 ) What is the name of the supervising officer responsible for the document entitled 'Draft Guidelines on Official Conduct of Commonwealth Public Servants'. 
Will he see that when the document is settled in final form copies are made required reading by all 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th Division officers. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
Are the rights and obligations of public servants as governed by legislation, convention, regulation or precedent available in codified form and have they been brought together in consolidated form. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
To what extent is a Permanent Head authorised to approve the use of official facilities for non-official purposes. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
What is the maximum penalty that can be imposed upon a public servant who, in relation to information sought by his Minister, knowingly gives (a) inadequate information, (b) misleading information and (c) false information. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
Has the Public Service Board yet finalised its recommended guidelines on official conduct of Commonwealth Public Servants. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1657. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1653. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
When will the Parliament receive an answer to question No. 2070 appearing on the Notice Paper in my name in relation to a question which was first put on the Notice Paper on 15 August 1978. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 28 September 1978: 
What was the outcome of the decision taken by Cabinet on 23 May 1975 to appoint a Royal Commission consisting of 3 judges to inquire into and report upon the matters stated in the Senate Resolution of 22 April 1975. 
asked the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
1 ) With reference to his replies to questions No. 1 997 and No. 2027  (Hansard,  10 October 1978, page 1679) in what way does the reply given to question No. 1972  (Hansard, 2  1 September 1978, page 1338), drawing attention to the large number of questions asked by me of the Prime Minister have relevance to the very small number of questions asked by me of him. 
How many of my questions took 21 weeks to answer and what was the number of questions answered by me in each year of the period I was a Minister. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 26 October 1978: 
What are the names of present senators and members of the House of Representatives who have completed 18 years service. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 27 September 1 978: 
When will the Parliament receive an answer to question No. 2032 appearing on the Notice Paper in my name in relation to a question which was first put on the Notice Paper on 15 August 1978. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
When will the Parliament receive an answer to question No. 2033 appearing on the Notice Paper in my name in relation to a question which was first put on the Notice Paper on 15 August 1978. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
When will the Parliament receive an answer to question No. 2034 appearing on the Notice Paper in my name in relation to a question which was first put on the Notice Paper on 15 August 1978. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
When will the Parliament receive an answer to question No. 2035 appearing on the Notice Paper in my name in relation to a question which was first put on the Notice Paper on 15 August 1978. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 27 September 1 978: 
When will the Parliament receive an answer to question No. 2036 appearing on the Notice Paper in my name in relation to a question which was first put on the Notice Paper on 15 August 1978. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 27 September 1 978: 
When will the Parliament receive an answer to question No. 2037 appearing on the Notice Paper in my name in relation to a question which was first put on the Notice Paper on 15 August 1978. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 27 September 1 978: 
When will the Parliament receive an answer to question No. 2038 appearing on the Notice Paper in my name in relation to a question which was first put on the Notice Paper on IS August 1978. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
When will the Parliament receive an answer to question No. 2039 appearing on the Notice Paper in my name in relation to a question which was first put on the Notice Paper on IS August 1978. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
When will the Parliament receive an answer to Question No. 2040 appearing on the Notice Paper in my name in relation to a question which was first put on the Notice Paper on IS August 1978. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
When will the Parliament receive an answer to question No. 2041 appearing on the Notice Paper in my name in relation to a question which was first put on the Notice Paper on IS August 1978. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Adminstrative Services, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
When will the Parliament receive an answer to question No. 2042 appearing on the Notice Paper in my name in relation to a question which was first put on the Notice Paper on IS August 1978. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
When will the Parliament receive an answer to question No. 2043 appearing on the Notice Paper in my name in relation to a question which was first put on the Notice Paper on 15 August 1978. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
When will the Parliament receive an answer to question No. 2044 appearing on the Notice Paper in my name in relation to a question which was first put on the Notice Paper on 15 August 1978. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
When will the Parliament receive an answer to question No. 2048 appearing on the Notice Paper in my name in relation to a question which was first put on the Notice Paper on 15 August 1978. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 27 September 1978. 
When will the Parliament receive an answer to question No. 2052 appearing on the Notice Paper in my name in relation to a question which was first put on the Notice Paper on15 August 1978. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
When did the General Manager of the Australian Broadcasting Commission first inform him of the Commission's intention to discontinue its  This Day Tonight  program. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
Is it a fact that taxpayers' money is being used to pay the costs of lighting, heating, cleaning, certain administrative services, worker's compensation, medical expenses and leave entitlements for staff, alterations and repair of buildings and the initial cost of replacement of plant and equipment for public service canteens. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
What action has he taken to force the Australian Broadcasting Commission to require its General Manager to observe the rules set by the Public Service Board in relation to accumulated furlough. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on IS August: 
Will he tell the Parliament the date on which the Government was first informed of the likelihood that the United States of America would increase its purchase of Australian beef. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on IS August 1978: 
Is there a list of public servants who have taken up business appointments upon resignation or retirement, which would place him or her in a position to convey to the appointer useful information that had come to him or her in the course of his or her duties as a public servant. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
Are public servants given regular warnings against accepting expensive gifts, lavish or frequent entertainment, payment of hotel or travel costs, valuable services, inside advice as to investments, discounts and allowances in purchasing and informed of the provisions of section 73 of the Crimes Act. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on IS August 1978: 
Will he tell the Parliament whether any Minister or public servant took part in any communications with a representative of the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd prior to that company's announcement to increase or seek an increase in the price of steel over the past 2 years. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on IS August 1978: 
If required by, or authorised by, himself, is a public servant entitled to refuse to provide information which he has reason to suspect is primarily for party political purposes. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on IS August 1978: 
Does the Government accept the Solicitor-General's endorsement of  Dr H.  V. Evatt in relation to the interpretation of section 25 (2) of the Public Service Act 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on IS August 1978: 
Does the Government endorse the majority view of the Senate Committee on Privileges as set out in its Report to the Senate in October 1975. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
Does he subscribe to the principle set out in the letter of 1 5 July 1975 by his predecessor and read to the Senate by the then President of the Senate. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on IS August 1978: 
What is the current rule relating to the time when classified documents are released for public perusal. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 September 1978: 
1 ) Does his reply to question No. 1661  (Hansard,  1 4 September 1978, page 109S) mean that he treats the confidential commercial nature of the calculations upon which the Government based its decision to permit commercial airlines to impose a further fare increase upon air travellers as being above the right of the people's Parliament to test and debate the basis of the Government's decision. 
If he persists in his refusal to give the Parliament the facts how can it carry out its function of custodian of public interest. 
What have the commercial airlines to hide that causes the Government to protect them from the glare of public analysis and debate. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
With reference to his answer to question No. 1669  (Hansard,  10 October 1978, page 1667), what is the nature of the Cabinet submissions and so-called confidential reports referred to in his reply which are such that the Parliament cannot be trusted to be informed of their contents. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Productivity. By way of preface, I state that when I was Minister for Labor I set in train an inquiry into bringing about a uniform code of safety which could be binding on all government departments so that there would at least be some uniform code to prevent unnecessary accidents. That was more than three years ago. Will the Minister tell the House whether anything has been done since then to give effect to that committee's recommendations? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
Can a tenderer for a Government contract amend the amount of his tender after tenders have closed by phoning the officer holding the delegation to approve the tender. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
1 ) Are tender boxes used for the receipt of Government tenders locked and sealed. 
If so, who holds custody of the keys and what arrangements are made for witnessing and certifying the sealing of tender boxes. 
) How many public servants constitute the opening committee and are all of these present at the opening of the tender box and is there a system that ensures that a person or persons outside the opening committee is always present to witness the opening. 
Are late tenders claiming to have been posted before closing time of tenders always accepted. 
Are tenderers always permitted to place their tenders personally in the tender box. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
Is it a fact that 
After the closing of tenders such tenders are removed from the tender box and transferred to a locked room in which the opening committee studies the tenders 
While this is going on no other person is allowed to enter the room, and 
Notwithstanding (b) above another senior officer may enter the room for the purpose of handing in tenders received after the room is locked. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
Are there written guidelines to gauge what are the best interests of the Commonwealth when determining whether to call for re-tendering and in what circumstances can an original tenderer be denied an opportunity to re-tender. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 1 5 August 1 978: 
What are the guidelines by which a department may decide to obtain amended prices for a Government contract and at what notice are tenders recalled. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
Does the Public Service keep a record of the purchase price of goods disposed of at public auction compared with the price received. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation on the ground that I have been misrepresented. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
When did the Australian Bureau of Statistics conduct its last survey of household income and expenditure. 
Why did the Bureau discontinue its preparations for (a) the 1978-79 survey, (b) the quarterly and annual job survey and (c) the preparation of statistics of foreign participation in particular sectors of the Australian economy. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
When will the Parliament receive an answer to question No. 2067 appearing on the Notice Paper in my name in relation to a question which was first put on the Notice Paper on 15 August 1978. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 27 September 1 978: 
When will the Parliament receive an answer to question No. 2066 appearing on the Notice Paper in my name in relation to a question which was first put on the Notice Paper on 15 August 1978. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on IS August 1978: 
Are details of all tender prices for each contract available to the public. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 11 October 1978: 
How many Second and Third Division officers of the public service were on long term sick leave as at (a) 31 December 1975, (b) 31 December 1976, (c) 31 December 1977 and (d) 30 September 1978. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
1 ) How does the present salary of the Permanent Head of the Departments of (a) the Treasury, (b) Defence, (c) the Attorney-General and (d) Foreign Affairs compare with the present salaries of the respective Minister administering those departments. 
What were the comparisons in August 1 970. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
What salaries are payable to officers of the (a) 3rd Division and (b) 2nd Division of the Australian Public Service. 
What are the standard hours of work for such officers. 
What classes and levels of these officers receive salaries loaded to compensate for overtime. 
What are the penalty rates for overtime payable to those officers entitled to claim overtime. 
What time are officers entitled to take off for (a) morning and (b) afternoon tea breaks. 
Are officers required to meet the cost of tea and biscuits, 
What are the details of compassionate leave, sick leave, special leave, annual leave, maternity leave and long service leave for public servants and are these entitlements standard within the private sector. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
On how many occasions in the past five years has the Public Service Board given its approval for a public servant to accept, in addition to his salary, a fee of any kind in connection with the Public Service. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
Will he look again at Question No. 1672 and explain why he failed to answer the second paragraph of that question. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
Who now holds custody of the Petrov documents which were withheld from publication by the Petrov Royal Commission. 
Have any of such documents been copied; if so, by whom, and where are these now located. 
When will other members of Parliament be given an opportunity of reading these documents. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 18 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1660. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1612. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs: 
1 ) Is the position of Assistant Director, Class 7, in the Adelaide Office of his Department advertised only in the Commonwealth  Gazette. 
If so, why is such an important and sensitive position not more widely advertised. 
What are the qualifications of the members of the selection panel, and what are their linguistic qualifications. 
If linguistic qualifications are not held by the panel, why not. 
5 ) What are the intended selection criteria. 
Does the appointee have to be (a) bilingual, (b) bicultural, (c) of migrant ethnic origin or (d) actively involved with ethnic communities. 
Will the person appointed merely administer existing services or will he assume functions currently performed by personnel within the Department. 
Will the Ethnic Liaison Officers be of equal status with this appointment 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 27 September1978: 
When will the Parliament receive an answer to question No. 2054 appearing on the Notice Paper in my name in relation to a question which was first put on the Notice Paper on15 August 1978. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 27 September1978: 
When will the Parliament receive an answer to question No. 2036 appearing on the Notice Paper in my name in relation to a question which was first put on the Notice Paper on15 August 1978. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
What was the gross value to commercial airline operators of each fare increase approved by the Government since 1 January 1973. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on15 August 1978: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the Executive arm of Government has refused a request by the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives and the  President  of the Senate for funds to provide Presiding Officers the facilities for normal courtesies of entertaining visiting overseas dignitaries. 
Was this decision taken without seeking the views of the Parliament. 
What Department, if any, recommended the refusal. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 28 September 1978: 
1 ) Did the Minister read the answer to question No. 1 674  (Hansard,  19 September 1978, page 1174), to which the Minister made reference in reply to question No. 1675 when she approved that reply. 
If so, can the Minister explain why she gave a reply consisting of 21 words when the same answer could have been fully covered with one word. 
Will the Minister give the Parliament an assurance that the flippancy shown in her reply to question No. 1 675 is never again repeated. 
Has the Minister seen the reply given by the Prime Minister to question No. 1561. 
If so, does she honestly believe that her reply to question No. 1675 meets the requirements of the Prune Minister's reply. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 28 September 1978: 
Will the Minister have another look at the reply to question No. 167S and tell the Parliament why the Munster permits the officer of the Government Department who prepared that reply, to trifle with the Parliament of Australia in the manner represented by that reply. 
Will the Minister tell the Parliament the name of the public servant responsible for such a contemptuous reply. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
Does the Australian Security and Intelligence Organisation have a charter to operate overseas. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
When will the Parliament receive an answer to question No. 2072 appearing on the Notice Paper in my name in relation to a question which was first put on the Notice Paper on 15 August 1978. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
Will he table for the information of the Parliament the list of current ' D ' notices. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1662. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to question No. 1677. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
Is there any rule or statute which entitles a Minister in charge of the administration of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation to sometimes deny, but never confirm, allegations against the Organisation. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
How many occasions over the past 6 years has the Australian Security and Intelligence Organisation intercepted (a) mails or (b) telephone conversations (i) with and (ii) without, Ministerial knowledge, written authority or approval. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on IS August 1978: 
Will he give a categorical assurance that no Minister, Member of the Parliament, Judge, or Permanent Head has had his telephone tapped since (a) September 1974 and (b) July 1976. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on IS August 1978: 
Is a public servant's membership of (a) a Communist Party, (b) the Nazi Party or (c) the National Civic Council relevant to the security assessment of that person. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on IS August 1978: 
1 ) Are any tenders accepted at face value on the grounds that the tenderer is well-known and to what extent are performance reports, current commitments and financial situations taken into account 
What discretion does a public servant have in reducing the amount of detail to be included in respect of small and straight-forward projects. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 1 S August 1 978: 
Are there any circumstances under which the Chief Officer in any Austraiian Government Department would be entitled to direct that any document in his particular Department or any fact known to his Department be withheld from the Executive Councillor for the time being holding the Governor-General's Commission to administer that Department 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on IS August 1978: 
Does the Public Service Board require that public servants exercising discretionary powers to observe the common law principle that decisions shall not be made (a) for ulterior or extraneous motives or (b) contrary to a decision likely to be made by an honest person acting bona fide. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on IS August 1978: 
Will he allow a joint select committee of the Parliament to study and report upon the desirability of changing the present tendering system to provide for a procedure of public opening of tender boxes at the hour on which tenders for Government contracts close, providing an unsuccessful tenderer with a right of appeal to an independent tribunal and the payment of a deposit which would be forfeited in the event of a tenderer withdrawing. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
Are Second Division Officers and Third Division Officers above Class 8 required to furnish a record showing the times they start and finish duty each day. 
What arrangements operate to ensure that flextime is not abused in such a way as to leave divisions and sections of departments unmanned for periods during normal business hours. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 11 October 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to the fact that certain public servants present themselves for work early and receive payment of wages while they read newspapers, make personal telephone calls and generally wile away their time until their supervisors come on duty. 
If so, will he consider the advisability of issuing a directive that will put an end to this unsupervised expenditure of public funds. 
Does he see merit in the installation of some effective mechanical means of recording the starting and finishing times of public servants. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 12 October 1978: 
1 ) Is it a fact that if a public servant is invalided out of the Public Service on medical grounds at, say, 59 years of age, he qualifies for a superannuation pension of 50 per cent of salary but receives only 45 per cent if he chooses to retire at 60 years of age and 50 per cent at 65 years of age. 
What is the incidence of public servants leaving the Public Service on medical grounds. 
What steps are taken to prevent public servants invalided out of the Public Service from taking other employment 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 12 October 1978: 
Will he ask the Auditor-General to arrange for spot checks of all time sheets to be made at selected places of Australian Government employment in late afternoons to ascertain whether all employees have filled in their time sheets before leaving their places of employment 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 7 November 1978: 
1 ) Has a 'D' Notice restriction ever been invoked in relation to information concerning Indonesian action or actions in East Timor. 
If so, (a) when was it invoked, (b) to what action or actions did it relate and (c) by whom was it issued. 
asked the Treasurer upon notice, on 14 September 
Is it desirable that the Government and/or the Reserve Bank be supplied with figures which enable it or the Bank to calculate the total amount of letters of credit established for import transactions current at the end of each month. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 8 October 1 978: 
Would the Department of Social Security reject a claim for social security benefits in cases where it knew that the applicant had entered Australia without an entry permit. 
If so, how many such applicants have been refused social security benefits m the last 5 years. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 8 October 1 978: 
How many of the Vietnamese who entered Australia without permits, but who were subsequently given temporary entry permits to regularise their immigration status while investigations continue, are now receiving (a) sickness, (b) unemployment and (c) any other social security benefit. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
Will the Attorney-General see that copies of High Court judgments are supplied without cost to those Members of the Parliament wishing to learn how that Court is interpreting the legislative powers of the Commonwealth and the meaning of statutes passed by the Parliament. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When will the Parliament receive an answer to question No. 2071 appearing on the Notice Paper in my name in relation to a question which was first put on the Notice Paper on 15 August 1978. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
When will the Parliament receive an answer to question No. 2013 appearing on the Notice Paper in my name in relation to a question which was first put on the Notice Paper on 15 August 1978. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 13 September 1978: 
What were the full legal fees paid to counsel representing the Commonwealth Government in each of the last six national wage cases. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 11 October 1978: 
By what monetary amounts as distinct from percentages, has the salary of (a) Level 1, (b) Level 2, (c) Level 3, (d) Level 4, (e) Level 5 and (f) Level 6 of the Second Division of the Australian Public Service increased since 30 June 1970. 
By what monetary amounts as distinct from percentages, have the award rates under the Federal Metal Trades Award increased since 30 June 1 970. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
What is the number of Second Division Officers now employed in the Departments of (a) Prime Minister and Cabinet, (b) Foreign Affairs, (c) Treasury, (d) Finance, (e) Trade and Resources, (f) Transport and (g) the AttorneyGeneral, compared with the number employed at 30 June (i) 1975, (ii) 1970, (iii) 1965, (iv) 1960, (v) 1955, (vi) 1950 and (vii) 1945 respectively. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
How many man hours of labour were put into ascertaining that the answer to question No. 1611  (Hansard,  10 October 1978, page 1666), would require calculation and compilation of detailed information in respect of over 2000 designations in the Public Service. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
1 ) Has he ever noted the similarity between the views expressed by the newsletter  Syntec  and the confidential submissions put to the Government from time to time by Treasury officials. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
What are the guidelines relating to the logging of telephone calls by public servants in the course of their public duties. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
Is he concerned over complaints that some sections or divisions of Government departments sometimes come to a virtual close-down as a result of officers abandoning their posts to carry out personal shopping or to visit hotels to beat the consumer rush of non-Government employees. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to Question No. 1680. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 9 November 1 978: 
Did he endorse the principle set out in a statement issued under his name entitled 'Industrial Relations- a Policy for People'. 
Did that statement commit the Government to the introduction of democratic procedures in trade unions indicating that in his view it was imperative that the leadership should accurately reflect the views of their members. 
Did that statement boast that since August 1976 all elections for management positions in Federally registered organisations were required to be filled by secret postal ballot. 
Does that legislation still remain on the Statute Book. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the Commonwealth Industrial Court frequently invalidated union rules which were deemed to be vague and uncertain. 
Will he consider removing the vagueness and uncertainty of paragraph 55 (1) (e) of the Public Service Act so that each public servant will have a precise knowledge of what actions or kind of public comment would not be embraced by such subjective terms as disgraceful and improper conduct. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 20 September 1978: 
1 ) What are the names of Federal Judges who upon retirement received a lump sum payment from the Australian Government. 
How much did each Judge receive. 
3 ) Which of the payments were specifically authorised by Cabinet. 
When was the first payment made. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
Are officers whose duties involve the keeping or handling of personal records obliged, upon request of the person concerned, to inform that person (a) what records are held on him or her, (b) the purposes for which such records are kept and (c) of any rights of access and amendment. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on IS August 1978: 
Why are prices of tenders set out in schedules blanked out when placed on notice board lists. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 12 October 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the fact that at least 1 doctor in the ACT has tried to induce a female employee of the Public Service intending to resign, to elect to be invalided out of the Public Service in order to thus qualify for a superannuation pension for life. 
Will he order an independent inquiry into allegations of gross abuse of flextime, sick leave, compassionate leave, and early retirement on alleged medical grounds. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) What is the name of each person who established a need-to-know access during the period S December 1972 to 1 1 November 197S to the Petrov documents withheld from publication by the Petrov Royal Commission. 
To whom did these persons establish this needtoknow and when was the need established. 
Did these persons have personal custody of the documents for any period; if so, for what period and what guarantee is there that the documents were not copied during that period. 
If the documents were not allowed to pass into the personal custody of any person referred in part ( 1 ), were any of the documents copied by any other person for that person; if so, how many documents were copied. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
Will he look at the answers given to the Parliament by the Treasurer in answer to questions Nos 1672 and 2448  (Hansard,  10 October 1978, page 1667 and 22 November 1978, page 3267) and state whether he is satisfied with the respect accorded to the Parliament by the Treasurer in those replies. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
Does he know that the last paragraph of his reply to question No. 1610  (Hansard,  21 November 1978, page 3153) is false. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
What are the departmental procedures and Treasury instructions used to reduce the risk of collusion between tenderers, and are all departmental procedures uniform. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on IS August 1978: 
Are all tender forms and accompanying letters numbered and initialled by each member of the opening committee. 
Are all schedules of technical data attached to tenders initialled. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
1 ) Are tenders received after the opening committee has completed its opening and scheduling procedures sometimes admitted. 
What are the criteria for the admission or rejection of late tenders. 
Is the Tender Board the only body with power to admit or reject late tenders. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
Are tenders for Government contracts received over the counter after the due closing time and are these taken into account when considering tenders received before the closing time. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 1 S August 1978: 
In what circumstances can a public servant sign a contract with a tenderer without referring the matter to his Minister, and from what sections of what Act does he derive this power. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
When will the Parliament receive an answer to Question No. 2075 appearing on the Notice Paper in my name in relation to a question which was first put on the Notice Paper on 15 August 1978. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
Does the dramatic increase in the number of public servants who now claim long term paid sick leave compared with the number who did so only 8 years ago cause him any concern. 
What is the reason for this sudden and widespread breakdown in the health of public servants. 
Has his attention been drawn to the fact (a) that some private medical practitioners have expressed deep concern over the serious breach of medical ethics involved in the obvious collusion that exists between certain medical practitioners and public servants and (b) some medical officers employed by the Australian Public Service are encouraging public servants to abuse sick leave entitlements and are actually conspiring with claimants to improperly claim moneys from the Australian Government in violation of the Crimes Act. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) What was the revenue received from passenger fares from: 
the date on which fares were increased in October 1973 to the date of the increase approved in August 1974; 
August 1 974 to the date of increase approved in July 1975; 
July 1975 to September 1975; and 
September 1975 to April 1976. 
What were the grounds for each approval for an increase in fares. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
What are the circumstances in which compensation for overtime is made by way of an allowance additional to the salary payable to classes and levels of officers who do not receive payment for overtime and what are the additional allowances referred to in his reply to question No. 1610 (3)  (Hansard,  2 1 November 1978, page 3153). 

 -Mr Speaker, I raise a matter of privilege. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
How many applications for employment or promotion within the Australian Public Service were rejected on account of an adverse Australian Security and Intelligence Organisation report and in respect of which the person affected was never told of the nature of that adverse report in each year since 1970. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
Does the Government condone the use by public servants of tape recording devices (a) attached to telephone or (b) attached to microphones hidden in their offices, to record telephone or other conversations in which they may engage with (i) Ministers, (ii) other parliamentarians, (iii) senior public servants or (iv) pressmen. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
How many full-time employees of the Australian Public Service were on long-term sick leave as at 31 December (a) 1970, (b) 1971, (c) 1972, (d) 1973 and (e) 1974. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
What were the costs of international telephone calls placed by: 
Heads of Branches at: 
The Australian High Commission in London; 
) The Australian Em bassy in Washington; and 
b ) The Heads of Mission at: 
The Australian Mission to the United Nations in New York; 
The Australian Mission to the United Nations in Geneva during: 
1974-75; 
1975-76; 
1976-77; 
1977-78. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
Does the answer of his immediate predecessor to Question No. 1634 mean that a tenderer for a Government contract has never been able to amend the amount of his tender after tenders have closed by phoning the officer holding the delegation to approve the tender; if not, when was the change made and what are the details of that change. 
I intend to vote for the amendment moved by the honourable member for McMillan (  Mr Simon  ) but not because I support it in total. I do not because I do not believe that there ought to be any restrictions on the use of medical benefit funds for an abortion provided that a doctor believes it is justified. However, because I believe that there is a possibility that the motion moved by the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  may get up if I do not support the amendment moved by the honourable member for McMillan, I shall vote for the amendment as a safety precaution. I respect the views of those honourable members who have spoken already in this debate. I certainly respect the views of the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  who preceded me in the debate. But I do not hold very much brief for some honourable members of this Parliament who for what they believe to be good political reasons and for no other reasons- in this they are sadly mistaken- have pontificated here on a matter which is purely the concern of women. It is not a man's function to determine what a woman should do with her body. It makes me sick to hear some of the hypocrisy that comes from the mouths of men about the rights of women to control their own bodies. 
As an old campaigner, as one who has been around this place longer than anyone else in the chamber excepting one, and as one whose judgment has more often been right than wrong, let me just give a word of warning to those who fool themselves into believing that the organised minority represents the real view of the electorate. They are in for a sad shock when they see the voting at the next election. I can assure them of that because there has been a drastic change in public opinion over the past seven or eight years. Only six years ago a vote was taken on this matter in this Parliament. The vote was 96 against abortion and 23 in favour of it. We will not see that sort of vote tonight. I cannot predict at this stage, and I do not think anybody else can predict, the outcome of the vote on this motion, but it is not going to be 96 to 23. 
I think that this is an unusual debate. It is unusual because it is going to produce an opposite effect to that which those who are supporting the motion intended it to have. The debate was intended originally to blackmail members of Parliament into voting against abortion by making them believe that the minority view contained in the letters of which honourable members have spoken and which I also have received represents the viewpoint of the people outside. It does not. The gallup poll represents the viewpoint more so than the vocal opponents of abortion. Instead, this debate has produced, I believe, a catalystic effect which has worked against the anti-abortionists. The probability is that when the vote is taken on this motion tomorrow night, if the debate lasts that long, it will settle the issue once and for all in favour of abortion for those who are able to qualify for an abortion in accordance with the medical laws and the common law of the various States. It will then become a dead issue. Just as on one occasion I was the loser when I took part in a similar debate which spelt the death knell to the vote for or against State aid, I believe that my view will prevail on this occasion. 
The Premier of Victoria,  Mr Hamer,  has been very quick to divine the true public reaction to this motion. That reaction is now strongly in favour of laws which allow women to regain ownership of their own bodies. Premier Hamer knows very well where the big battalions are on election day. He is no fool and whatever else can be said about him he must go down as one of the shrewdest Premiers this Commonwealth has ever seen. He has very cleverly seized on this issue because he knows, first, that the majority of voters are women and, secondly, that the majority of people, men or women, favour the right of a woman to decide what will happen to her own body. The organised minority is going to fail in this campaign just as it failed in its campaign against divorce reform, just as it failed in its campaign against the laws relating to homosexuality and just as the militant minority failed in its campaign against clean union elections. Always the loudest voices were the voices of the minority. The organised minority has won only one issue and that was its campaign to use the public purse to meet the cost of teaching a particular religion in particular schools. That was a political issue in which the apathetic majority foolishly believed that the Government could pour hundreds of millions of dollars into church schools without affecting the level of everyone's tax burden. But this is not a political issue. 
-No, I am not. It is a moral issue in which those that are against abortion are united and those that are in favor of it are divided but in the majority. There is no majority support for the anti-abortion position and there is little real support for the position that abortion is to be permitted but that the poor, unmarried girl or the worn out mother of a family that is already too large to be given the normal maternal attention should be forced to face the risk of death at the hands of a back yard abortionist because she cannot afford the cost of proper medical treatment. The only thing that I have seen the pro-abortionists do so far to show their appreciation of what politics is all about- I have not received many letters from those in favour of abortion- is their announced intention this morning to flood the electorate during next year's general election with the voting list from  Hansard  to show how each honourable member voted on the Lusher motion. They have done nothing else to indicate where they stand in this matter. 
I have been a member of this Parliament for a long time. This is my thirtieth year. I believe I am right in saying that many honourable members will be sadly disillusioned at the next election for the positions which they now hold when they find that the way they voted on this issue has become an issue in the election. 
I have no complaint against those who hold the honest conviction that abortion is murder. Nor will any other fair-minded person vote against those practising Catholics who vote according to their conscience. If I held the same views that they do I would vote in favour of the Lusher motion. I applaud the actions of the Catholic hierarchy in pressing the case against abortion in the way they have. It is a duty they owe their faith. After all, it is a moral issue, not a political issue.  Sir James  Freeman has every right to concern himself with this issue without being accused of poking his nose into politics. If I were a Catholic I would expect him to do no less than that. 
I hold nothing against any member of this House who follows the Cardinal's lead if, deep down in his heart, he believes that abortion is unqualified murder. My wrath is confined to those members of the House who, in their mistaken belief, are voting for the Lusher motion for no better reason than that they believe that the anti-abortionists represent the majority position. I am angry because those honourable members who fall within that category are telling women something they would not allow women to tell men if the positions were reversed. Not one member of the House of Representatives knows what it feels like to be a single girl who is pregnant to a man who cannot and more often than not will not undertake the responsibility of providing food and shelter for the child she is carrying for him. Not one honourable member knows what it is like to be the tired and overworked mother of a poor man's clutch of children and to be pregnant with another that will place further and unbearable burdens on her shoulders. No honourable members know what it feels like to be in the position of a woman. 
-There is not one of you who does. 
The  DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member for Hume will remain silent. 
-This remark is directed at the honourable member for Hume. There is not one who has not released his passion upon the body of some woman. 
-Do not look so guilty. Many honourable members have committed adultery. Many more have been guilty of fornication. Some have already been parties to an abortion or have been privy to an abortion of a close relative or friend. If we are endowed with an ounce of Christian charity we should not be indifferent to the anxieties that torture the mind of every woman who is pregnant with an unwanted child. If, by our deliberate act as parliamentarians, we become guilty of passing laws that send a poor woman to her death from blood poisoning or some other complication caused by a non-medical abortion, then that is a death that will haunt us to the day we face our maker. It is no joke. The same burden will plague our souls if we pass laws that result in the birth of an unwanted child whose birth destroys the happiness of its mother, the happiness of its father or the happiness of its brothers and sisters. 
Let those who oppose abortion do more than they are now doing to lift the living standards of those who constitute the majority of the working families so that married couples can at least afford to welcome every child that is conceived. Let those who sound off loudest against abortion do more than they are now doing to wipe out poverty and unemployment, which are the causes of losing more life years than is caused by abortion. 
Abortion is not a satisfactory substitute for contraception but there are some in the community who still oppose even birth control. No woman can get pregnant without the help of a man and most of the honourable members in this House tonight have been responsible for helping some woman get pregnant. If this were a House of 124 women they would have no more right to make laws relating to the bodies of men than we have to make laws concerning medical matters relating to the bodies of women. 
-It is not balls. How would men like a parliament of women to make a law calling for the castration of every husband wishing to exercise what husbands are pleased to describe as their right when their wives are tired, have a headache or would rather read the Sunday newspapers. That is a fair analogy for what is now being proposed in the Lusher motion. There is no difference between the number of Catholic and non-Catholic women having abortions today. Psychologically and physiologically the trauma is the same in the case of all pregnant women. The burden of guilt varies little between one woman and another. The anguish and worry could vary considerably between a rich woman and a poor working woman or a wife of a poor working man but a rich woman can at least face her abortion without medical risk and without financial embarrassment. 
If life is supposed to begin at conception, that means that at the very split second the sperm enters the ovum there is a life. If that is true then anybody who denies the sperm the nourishment which the ovum produces by using the rhythm method or by using any other form of contraception is also destroying a life. That is something one has to face up to. There must be a cut-off point. Nobody can say that it is a human life in every sense of the word from the split second that conception takes place. 
-The honourable member for Kalgoorlie knows very well that that is true. I read the same book as he did and nowhere in the book that I read and he read did it say that we have the right to make people so poor that they cannot afford children and then tell them that they have to have one. I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for McMillan and I hope that it is carried. 
I preface my question which is directed to the Minister for Health by stating that last week the Parliament made it quite clear that it believed that the cost of abortions which fall within the law of a particular State should be covered by this Government's health scheme. I now ask whether the 
Minister has directed his attention to an excellent article written by Jacqueline Rees headed 'Why One Baby in Five is Aborted' which appeared in this week's  Bulletin.  If he has not, will he do so? In any event, will he pay attention to the point made by the writer, namely, that if the cost of abortions is to be met by the Commonwealth Government then it has a bounden duty to spend its money in preventing the necessity of abortions by giving more money to family planning associations so that proper contraceptive means can be employed, rather than the more costly exercise of dealing with unwanted abortions? 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 8 March 1979: 
Did his colleague,  Senator Durack,  in his capacity as Acting Minister for Veterans ' Affairs, inform the Minister for Defence that the Government was considering the Toose report and recommendations concerning the repatriation system insofar as it relates to conditions of eligibility and benefits of merchant seamen who served in a war zone in World War II. 
If so, has this matter been carefully examined and evaluated and with what results. 
The Ministerial statement presented by the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  is the most significant statement he has delivered since the general election in 1975. The most significant parts of the statement have not been touched upon to the extent that I believe they warrant examination. Most of the trouble today is due to the fact that when the quarterly cost of living adjustments were abolished workers were forced to carry a lag in price increases which was more than they could stand. The consequence has been that, because six months is far too long for workers to have to bear the cost of increased prices, they are left with no resort other than the action which they are now taking and the action about which the Government is now complaining. 
The statement contains three main points of attack. First, it proposes to support an application for the deregistration of the Transport Workers Union of Australia and the Miscellaneous Workers Union. Secondly, it proposes to make an application to the Prices Justification Tribunal for an examination of the price structure of the goods and services supplied by the employers concerned in this case should they yield to union pressure. In that event, the Government further warns that it will consider as a third step, in the case of the Miscellaneous Workers Union industries, bringing in products without any tariff duty being imposed in order to see that people do not have to go without paint. 
What I would like the Government to consider is the very dangerous and ineffectual step that it is proposing to take in relation to deregistration. The arbitration system will not work if the unions are deregistered and the arbitration system will not work if the unions decide to get out of the arbitration system. Unions cannot readily get out of the arbitration system. Once they are in it, they are locked into it. There is only one way they can get out and that is by deregistration. It could very well be that the unions might welcome deregistration because, if they begin to see that there is nothing for them in the arbitration system, they will have no terror of being deregistered. If one reads the history books one finds that, when the Conciliation and Arbitration Act was introduced in 1904, the Government of the day had to evolve all kinds of inducements to get the unions to register. In 1904 the unions did not flock into the arbitration system in droves; they had to be cajoled in, coaxed in. Eventually they came in and the law was altered to provide that once a union was in the system it was locked in. 
It does not matter whether a union is registered. As long as it continues to control its membership deregistration will achieve absolutely nothing. The unions will continue to direct their members. Their members will continue to hold their meetings and to be bound by majority decision. Deregistration can work only in situations such as we saw when the Building Workers Industrial Union of Australia was deregistered and the carpenters and joiners came in and picked up the constitutional rights which the deregistered union previously had. But that would not happen in the situation about which we are now talking. That only happened because of a factional war between the right and the left wings of the carpenters union. That situation is not in existence now in either the Transport Workers Union strike or the Miscellaneous Workers Union strike. Unless we have that situation- unless we are able to guarantee that some other union will come in and pick up the registration which is forfeited by the deregistered union and, moreover, that that union has the power and the capability to enroll the members who were doing the work as members of the deregistered union- we will solve nothing at all. What we could do is create the catalyst which will make all the other unions see the folly of remaining in an arbitration system which is lopsided against the interests of organised labour. 
It is possible that, if the Miscellaneous Workers Union were deregistered, the Australian Workers Union could move in and pick up the registration of the Miscellaneous Workers Union. It is possible that, in different circumstances from those which apply now, in the metal trades industry if the Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union were deregistered, the Australasian Society of Engineers and the Federated Ironworkers Association of Australia could move in and pick up the registered rights which the AMWSU now has. But, I repeat, that is not the climate which now applies. Any union which did that would stand branded as a scavenger against unions which were fighting for what the rest of the trade union movement regards as a legitimate case. In this case, what are they fighting for? They are fighting for an amount of money which was awarded to them by the arbitration system but which, on the basis of the policy of automatic appeal, has been taken away from them. No one in the trade union movement, no trade union, would be prepared to act as a scavenger against a union which was deregistered simply for trying to retain what it was able to get from the arbitration system. 
I simply warn the Government that what it is proposing as far as deregistration is concerned will resolve nothing at all. I repeat, it could be the very action which will spark off the kind of climate and the kind of reaction in the trade union movement which will cause the conciliation and arbitration machinery to collapse around our ears. I refer now to what I regard as the most lethal part of the Minister's statement, which is found in the last two paragraphs but two of the statement. He stated: 
Should a settlement be made outside the guidelines, the Government will instruct the Prices Justification Tribunal to institute an immediate inquiry into the industry. 
He went on to state: 
Accordingly, consideration will be given to importation of paint free of duty under bylaw, in order to make up any shortfall in production. 
Those two threats, if acted upon, will be effective unless the employers are carrying much more fat than they are ever prepared to admit they are carrying. If they are carrying the amount of fat which I think they are carrying by way of excess profits, even that will not be effective because they will be able to maintain and absorb the increased wage prices that we are talking about without their having to close down their plants. But even if they succeed in doing that, the second threat will be completely effective. That is to say, if the employers decide to break the guidelines and give the increase to their employees and if the Prices Justification Tribunal refuses to pass on the increased wage cost in the form of price increases and the employers are still able to continue to operate, the decision to bring in paint duty free must inevitably bring about the closing down of the industry, if that is what the Government is looking for. 
There could be circumstances in which the last two proposals which the Government has threatened could be justified. When I was Minister for Labor I was confronted by the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union with the request that I support an aluminium company in an application it was then making to the Prices Justification Tribunal for a further increase in the price of its product in order to meet the AMWU demand for more wages. I told the union that I would not have a bar of it. I told it that I saw no point in the aluminium company, Comalco or Alcan- I have forgotten the name of the company concerned, but it was one of the three alumium companies then operating- making all the workers of Australia pay more for their aluminium just so that the company could pass on by way of increased prices the cost of additional wages that were being paid to the members of one particular union. I bluntly told  Mr Gilmore  of the AMWU that I would have no bar of it. 
The other circumstance which I believe justifies action is the collusion which seems to take place between Ansett Airlines of Australia and Trans-Australia Airlines. Every time an increase is in the wages of pilots or other people employed in the airline industry is sought, what happens? The companies simply give in and come to the Government. The Government automatically gives them authority to increase the price of fares and the paying public has to meet the burden. Again when I was Minister, I made it clear to Ansett that if I had my way I would have said: 'You can pay your pilots what you like but the extra cost has to come out of your profits and not be passed on to the travelling public'. 
I have completed the 10 minutes for which I asked. I thank the House for giving me this time. I know that it was not my turn to speak. That is all I have time to say. The speech is the most significant speech made so far in that what is contained in the last two paragraphs of page 4 of the circulated copy is, I think, the most deadly threat that we have ever seen contrived by any government. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 8 March 1979: 
Have any of the Defence Force been put on red alert or told to be prepared for a red alert or similar exercise since the end of World War II; if so, when. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
When will the Parliament receive an answer to Question No. 2074 appearing on the Notice Paper in my name in relation to a question which was first put on the Notice Paper on15 August 1978. 
Within the last few days I have come into possession of certain documents which reveal a serious criminal offence against the Companies Act by certain union officials. In a letter that I have received from the  President  of the Australian Workers Union,  Mr Charles  Oliver, it is alleged that Squizzy Williams and Frank Mitchell have been guilty of harassing officers of the New South Wales Branch of the Union over their balance sheet, while at the same time being themselves party to what  Mr Oliver  describes as a form of corporate sharp practice involving the colossal sum of $317,000 of members' money. I ask leave to incorporate  Mr Oliver's  letter in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The letter read as follows- 

asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 8 March 1979: 
What are the names of those persons who received a salary or any other emolument for services rendered in connection with the running of Kirribilli House during each financial year from 1 969-70 to date. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 8 March 1979: 
What was the quantity of liquor supplied to Kirribilli House and paid for by the Government during each financial year from 1969-70 to date. 
-Another document that came to me is a copy of a letter written by  Mr Reg  Mawbey, Secretary of the New South Wales Branch of the AWU alleging that the union's auditor has certified that the balance sheet does not give a true account of the state of affairs of the Union's special purpose fund in that a huge amount of more that $ 1 38,000 is now irrecoverable. I ask leave to incorporate the auditor's report in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The report read as follows- 

-Mr Mawbey's letter states that the company operating the Union's superannuation fund now owes the Union's special purposes fund upwards to a quarter of a million dollars and that  Mr Williams  recently presided over meetings of the company and the Union's executive council at which it decided to convert the union's irrecoverable debt to the company into $ 1 shares which will be shown in the next balance sheet as an asset. I quote from  Mr Mawbey's  letter  the Shares will be worthless, creating a fabricated imaginary asset for the purpose of deceiving people who are unaware ofthe true situation . . . 
He also said: 
There is not one iota of Tangible material in this purported asset. 
On the face of it,  Mr Edgar  Williams, the  President  of the Union, in fact presided over a conspiracy to commit a most serious, corporate crime against the members of his own union and the Corporate Affairs Commission should treat him in the same way as it has treated Harry M. Miller by having summonses issued against him. He should be called upon to surrender his passport before he can leave the country. I ask  leave to incorporate  Mr Mawbey's  letter in Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The letter read as follows- 

It is a scandalous state of affairs that paid officials of the Union should be allowed to misappropriate Union funds in this way without any action being taken against them. I am astonished that the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  has not yet gazetted the regulations needed to give effect to last year's amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act concerning union balance sheets. All superannuation funds should be subject to government supervision and independent audit. When I say 'all', I mean that not only union superannuation funds, but also private insurance companies that run superannuation funds, ought to be brought under government scrutiny. Unless this is done, there will be no guarantee that superannuation funds - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr  MillarOrder!  It being 1 1 p.m., the debate is interrupted. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) Why did he supply information in his answer to question No. 1 607  (Hansard,  2 1 November 1 978, page 3 1 52 ) relating to allowances paid to Ministers as against Permanent Heads when my question specifically sought information only in relation to the salaries of Ministers and Permanent Heads. 
Does he see that to answer the question in the way he did distorts the relativity between Ministers and their permanent heads in such a way as to make the large salary gains of Permanent Heads over the last 8 years vis-a-vis their Ministers appear less than in fact they are. 
If he felt justified in supplying some information not sought why did he not supply other information not sought such as the benefits of permanency, paid furlough, accrued annual leave, accrued sick leave, transfer allowances, workers' compensation, the right to receive a lump sum cash reimbursement of all payments made to the Superannuation Fund and other entitlements which Permanent Heads enjoy but which do not apply to Ministers. 
Did he understand the effect of the answer prepared for his signature when he approved it. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 22 March 1979: 
1 ) How many copies of 'Report '74' were published by the Department of the Media for the Australian Government Publishing Service and what was the cost. 
Has a similar publication been published in subsequent years; if so, (a) how many and (b) at what cost. 
Was a publication similar to 'Report '74' published before 1975. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Industrial Relations. It relates to a statement recently put out by the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs about the Government's very great concern about the shortage of skilled tradesmen. Does the Minister know that a large number, said to amount to thousands, of qualified fitters and turners, toolmakers and welders have left the industry because of the low rate of pay and are now taking up other employment, such as transport driving and the like? Does he not realise that the principal cause of the shortage of skilled metal workers is the fact that the wage for that skill is now regarded as being the lowest in Australia on a comparative wage basis? Will the Minister support the putting of a positive proposal to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for the introduction of a more realistic paid rates award than is now the case so that these people can be attracted back to the industry? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 1 5 August 1978: 
Is it still the practice for the Auditor-General to pass Australian Security and Intelligence Organisation accounts on documents certified by him; if so, what kind of audit does he carry out before signing that certificate. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 8 March 1979: 
What action has he taken to force the Australian Broadcasting Commission to require its General Manager to observe the rules set by the Public Service Board in relation to accumulated recreation leave. 
-I should like to endorse the remarks of the other speakers. Charlie Adermann was known to all of us who have served in the Parliament for 20 years or more as a very honourable, very decent, truthful man, who did not have even a streak of meanness in his makeup. I had an enormous regard for him. I honoured him. I know there are few nowadays, but he was one of the few people with whom one could discuss a confidence and know that it would never pass beyond him. It saddens me that only yesterday I spoke to his son, Evan, to inquire after him, and asked Evan to convey to his father my best wishes. Unfortunately, that cannot now be done. 
He was not the sombre, humourless person that the Press tried to depict. He did have a lively sense of humour. He did not go around guffawing and laughing and playing pranks on people, but he did have a very good, healthy sense of humour. I can remember very well, as though it were yesterday, when he was  Chairman  of Committees. We were having divisions every few minutes. It was impossible to get a cup of tea without having to leave it and come into the House. So Eddie Ward and I decided we would try a new experiment and bring the cup of tea in with us, which we did. We sat at our benches drinking our tea, expecting to be thrown out. That was our idea of a joke- or mine, anyhow. But Charlie Adermann did not fall for it. He was a very wise, very clever and very shrewd person. He just let me sit there drinking my cup of tea, and in the end I was the joke of the House, not he. 
-The honourable member for Newcastle is entitled to say, 'Hear, hear', because it was intended to be a joke, but it certainly backfired on me. I remember the occasion when  Sir Charles  Adermann succeeded the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  as the Minister for Primary Industry. Eddie Ward again entered the scene to announce that the right honourable member for Lowe had to give up the job as Minister for Primary Industry because he had become eggbound. The member for Fisher,  Sir Charles  Adermann, took his place. The swearing in ceremony was really something to behold. Orders in those days- perhaps this is so even today- were that a Minister had to dress in striped pants and a black coat to be sworn in.  Sir Charles  did not have these garments and I am told- judging by the way he looked I believe itthat Joe Gullett loaned him some striped pants and John McEwen loaned him the black coat, and that he looked very much like an impoverished undertaker rather than a Minister. 
Again, he laughed at himself over that incident. He thought that that was a great joke, especially since he did not have to go to the expense of buying another suit. I mention those things because there is a wrong impression about  Sir Charles  Adermann, namely, that he was a humourless, dour person who did not have a sense of humour. But he did have a sense of humour. He was a very human person, a good person. I join with other speakers in extending my sympathy to his family. No man ever earned greater respect in this Parliament than did  Sir Charles  Adermann. 
-Has the Minister for Industrial Relations seen a report in the Adelaide  Advertiser  of yesterday's date describing a log of claims served on employers throughout Australia by the Federated Storemen and Packers Union and asking for $500 a week in wages, 24 public holidays, a 30hour week, 8 weeks leave, huge superannuation entitlements as described by the newspaper, 20 days compassionate leave and unlimited sick leave? Does he know that the Secretary of the union in South Australia,  Mr George  Apap, has stated publicly that these are not real claims, but are claims that have been imposed upon the union as a result of a quite stupid if I may be forgiven for describing it as such decision of the High Court of Australia many, many decades ago? Will he now take into account the expectations among members of the union which claims like this create, and consider mounting a test case before the High Court with a view to asking the present judges of the High Court to reverse the decision taken so many decades ago? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 1 May 1979: 
) What was the total number of procedures under Item 6469 during (a) 1976-77 and (b)1977-78, and what proportion of these were undertaken to terminate pregnancies. 
What was the total number of abortions (a) performed and (b) paid for from funds made available by his Department during(i) 1976-77 and(ii) 1977-78. 
What proportion of the female population is of childbearing age. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice on 15 August 1978: 
Is a Permanent Head who believes that a Ministerial direction conflicts with the law governing financial administration expected to (a) advise the Minister in writing, (b) accept and follow the Minister's written instructions or (c) report the matter to (i) the Auditor-General or (ii) the Prime Minister. 

 - Mr Acting Speaker, I oppose the motion. I take the opportunity of saying something of which I believe the House ought to take note. 
-Just a moment. The Leader of the House does not know what I am going to say. He ought to listen. 
-The reason I oppose the motion is to make this comment: During Question Time today there have been two very important questions which have taken up a lot of time. One related to the future of wheat prices, to which the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  replied. It was a reply that the Parliament should have heard. The reply that the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  gave regarding Nomad aircraft was a reply that the Parliament was entitled to hear- but not at Question Time. Both of those replies should have been given to the Parliament by way of a ministerial statement. The two Ministers concerned, instead of sending their questions to the members who asked them, should have asked the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  whether he would be willing to grant leave to them to make a statement and, in so doing, indicated to the Leader of the Opposition the nature of the statement. Had that been done, and had the Leader of the Opposition refused to grant leave, there would have been an entirely different situation. That was not done. 
I believe that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  ought to talk to his Ministers about the way in which they are abusing the forms of the House to draw out Question Time, thereby preventing members from asking questions. Where statements such as the two to which I have referred today have to be made, they ought to be made by way of a prepared statement to the House. I have been trying to get a question in all this week and it is pretty obvious from the way in which the Prime Minister is jumping from his place that it is not likely that I will get the question in tomorrow either. That is about all I want to say. The Prime Minister ought to do something with his Ministers. If that does not work and if the Leader of the Opposition proves to be unreasonable in preventing the Ministers from making statements on matters such as the two subjects to which I have referred, that is an entirely different question. But that has not been put today to the Leader of the Opposition. It should have been, and I hope it will be in future. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 13 September 1978: 
On how many sitting days did each Justice of the (a) High Court, (b) Federal Court of Australia, (c) Supreme Courts of (i) the Australian Capital Territory and (ii) the Northern Territory and (d) Family Court of Australia sit during (A) 1976 and (B) 1977. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Immigration. By way of preface, I should like to inform the House that when I was Minister for Immigration, information came to me and to my Department that heroin smuggled into Australia came principally via New Zealand. People were using the Tasman route, pretending to be New Zealanders- some were New Zealanders- and they were getting into Australia without being subject to control or checking. I can also say by way of preface- 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 12 September 1979: 
1 ) What is the current dependant's allowance in respect of the (a) spouse and ( b) child of a war pensioner. 
2 ) When was the allowance fixed at its present rate. 
Have these allowances been increased in the 1979-80 Budget; if not, why not. 
I begin by taking up a point made by the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman).  Towards the end of his remarks he paid tribute to the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  I do the same thing. I do not blame the Minister for what is contained in this Bill. I do not blame his Department for it either. The trade union movement, which knows the Minister well, also knows that he would not willingly be party to this kind of legislation. I do not even blame the employers. I know that large sections of the employers themselves are fearful of the consequences that will flow from this Bill. Neither the Australian Industrial Court, the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, nor the trade union movement was consulted in the preparation of the Bill now before the Parliament. It is true, as I was charged by the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr),  that I did not call the National Labor Advisory Council together once during the time that I was Minister for Labour. 
-Why not? I refused to call it together because I believe that these socalled bodies are a complete waste of time. They are a futility. Everybody attending them talks for the record and then goes out and defends himself against any charge of having gone soft or having let the side down. I did not call the Council together, but on every occasion on which I sought to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act I sent copies of the proposed Bill to the judiciary, the unions and the employers before it was brought into this House. On frequent occasions, as the parliamentary draftsmen will testify, I made substantial alterations to those drafts after receiving comments from the judiciary, the trade union movement and, on one occasion, even from the employers. The Government is deluding itself if it is naive enough to believe that industrial disputation can be eliminated by Acts of Parliament. It cannot. If it could, all of us would be remiss in not having thought of the wonderful brainwave 50, 60 or 70 years ago. Every parliament in the world has been remiss if passing Acts of Parliament or Congress was all that was needed to prevent industrial disputes. It cannot be done. There is no shortcut and no simple way as we would imagine would be possible by the mere passage of these amendments. 
The Parliament must never lose sight of the objects of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act whenever it seeks to amend that Act. Let me tell the House, because it appears that nobody on the other side seems to have noticed, that section 2 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act- I will paraphrase it- says that the chief objects of the Act are to encourage the prevention and settlement of industrial disputes by means of conciliation and to encourage the registration of unions under the provisions of the Act. Unless an amendment causes the Act to comply more adequately with these objects it will cut right across the policy of the Act. Any amendment made to the Act must keep firmly in mind the objects of the Act. In looking at the objects of the Act we have to keep in mind equally what the Constitution says we can do in relation to industrial laws. 
The Parliament's power to pass laws in relation to industrial matters derives from placitum (xxxv) of section 51 of the Australian Constitution. This placitum provides for the Parliament to be entrusted with the power to make laws with respect to: 
Conciliation and arbitration for the prevention and settlement of industrial disputes extending beyond the limits of anyone State. 
But more than 170 cases have been determined by the High Court of Australia as to the meaning of those few words in the Constitution. In essence the Court has consistently and drastically read down the power of the Parliament to deal directly with laws relating to labour relations. It has never read the power up. It has always read down those powers and the placitum to which I referred. I think it has been wrong in doing so, but it has done so. We are stuck with what the High Court has done. It has specifically ruledthis is the point we are now discussing- against the Parliament's exercising arbitral powers over labour relations. It has specifically ruled against the Parliament's exercising judicial powers. Obviously, on the last point, the High Court could not consistently do anything else. It is axiomatic that the Executive arm of government, that is the Executive Council or the GovernorGeneralinCouncil, cannot exercise powers that are denied to the Parliament itself. Therefore, any powers that we purport to give to the Executive Council or the Governor-General-in-Council are powers that can survive a challenge in the High Court only if they are within the competence of the Parliament to exercise directly and should it choose to do so. I mention this by way of preface because it is germane to what I propose to put to the House in relation to the proposals contained in this Bill. 
The Bill seeks to inject into the Act a provision that purports to give the Parliament power to order that claims for lost wages due to industrial action shall not in any circumstances be awarded by the Commission. Secondly, it transfers the judicial powers of the Federal Court in respect of deregistration processes to those members of the Parliament who happen to be serving members of the Executive Council assembled with the Governor-General presiding. On the first matter it can be said with certainty that the High Court will have to stand all its earlier decisions on their heads to be able to uphold the power of the Parliament to direct the Commission on how it shall exercise its constitutional powers to prevent and settle industrial disputes. 
On the question of not being able to award arrears in wages, let us examine the situation of a strike brought about as the result of a safety issue. For instance, miners may claim that methane gas in the mine constitutes a threat to their health or to life and limb. Surely no one would say that if they went on strike and as a consequence of the strike finally settled the dispute to their satisfaction they would have no right or the Commission would have no right to say that they should not have been forced to lose wages over a matter in which they were completely justified. That is an example which cannot be dealt with once this Bill is passed. If this proposal is held to be valid I believe that the High Court will be compelled to set aside the majority of its earlier judgments in relation to placitum (xxxv) or its members will stand condemned as biased, political partisans. I think that even Lionel Murphy and Garfield Barwick would not like that sort of charge to be levelled against them. 
I turn now to the second point, which relates to the power of certain members of the Parliament to exercise the judicial powers which now reside in the Federal Court. I refer to the processes of deregistration under section 143 and proposed new section 143A. If two members of any union stop work in some remote corner of the Commonwealth, the Minister- not the judge, not the Full Bench- can ask the Full Bench of the Commission to give a certificate to the effect that there are two members on strike in the Gulf of Carpentaria. If the Minister proves that two members of the Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union are on strike the Full Bench is obligated to give the Minister a certificate that he has asked for - 
-Yes, it is. 
I am coming to that. A declaration may be made if it is held that industial action is adversely affecting the health, safety and welfare of the community. Now the words 'health' and 'safety' are just window dressing. 'Health' and 'safety' sound terribly good, terribly safe, terribly paternalistic - 
-Motherhood, if you like. But it is not necessary to show that industrial action is having an adverse effect on health and safety if it can be shown simply that a strike is against the welfare of the community the certificate has to be issued - 
I accept that but I will show that even with those words injected into the provisions of the Bill the situation is still the same. If there is a strike involving shipping, transport, the post office or any public facilities, it can be easily argued that the welfare of the community is affected by it substantially. That is all that has to be done. Once that occurs, given all the factors I have enumerated, the Minister, armed with this certificate, can call one of his ministerial colleagues into session with him, phone the Governor-General and say: 'Your  Excellency, Mr Fraser  and I would like a meeting of the Executive Council. We are going to deregister the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union or we are going to do something else'. I will deal later with the other options that are open to the Minister. The Executive Council may meet in camera with only two members of this Parliament present- there need be no more. They can be biased members and therefore not fit to act in a judicial capacity. Immediately the Executive Council meets they can thereupon determine to exercise the options that are open to them. Those options are enormous and some of the consequences that can flow from the exercise of these options are quite horrendous. 
These two Ministers, sitting in Executive Council with the Governor-General, may freeze the whole of that union 's funds if that is how they feel moved to act. They can direct that a specified officer of that union shall cease to hold office in the union. They can also determine that he shall not be paid for his services to the members. They can direct the trustees not to hand over any money to specified officers who are entitled to be paid their salaries, having been elected to certain offices. They can order that a particular employee or group of employees shall not be permitted to contest a ballot for union office. They can also order that a particular employee, and they can name him individually, or a group of employees- that is, nobody in South Australia, for instance- shall be permitted to vote in a union election, shall be permitted to nominate for any union office or shall be permitted to attend a union meeting. By this means they will be able to stack the meetings by having their stooges at the meetings finding out who are the militants, getting their names and, in the Executive Council, directing that those particular members shall forthwith be disqualified from attending union meetings or voting at union meetings. They can order that a particular employee or group of employees shall forfeit all legal rights to accrued annual leave, to accrued long service leave or sick leave, no matter how much this leave might amount to. In Executive Council they could also deprive particular groups or particular named employees of their rights to claim the rates of pay prescribed by an award or an agreement. 
Should any of these remedies by sought be the Government, I am certain that it will force the trade union movement to court rather than to try to avoid deregistration in order to escape these oppressive, tyrannical and unjust features of the legislation. The irony of the whole matter is that once the unions get into the arbitration system under the law as it now is, they are locked into it; they cannot get out. A union gets in by application but it cannot get out of the system once it is in except by expulsion. Deregistration will remain the only alternative that the unions will have open to them. If that happens, as indeed it must happen, it will cut right across paragraph (e) of section 2 of the Arbitration Act, to which I referred earlier. It states that one object of the Act is to encourage the formation and the registration of organisations under the Act. It will cut right across the object of the Act and do the very opposite to what the Act claims to have as its object. Australia's system of conciliation and arbitration cannot work without the co-operation of the trade unions. How can the system work if it does not have trade unions registered, if the only organisations which are registered with the arbitration system are the employers? How can we do anything at all if that is what the Government brings about? 
The honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr)  boasted that the Government will be reelected whenever the next election is held. It is clear that that boast was made in the context of the hope that this Bill will cause a breakdown in industrial relations and that the Government will ride into power again on the misery brought about by the confrontation that it has directed against organised labour. The employers will be made to suffer; the unions will be made to suffer; the community at large will be made to suffer just because the Government thinks that by enacting this legislation it may create the political climate for being elected again. Let me warn the Government that if this is the purpose of the Bill it is playing with fire. The people of this country are not so wooden-headed as to be unable to see when they are being deliberately punished for purely political purposes. If that is what the Government believes it can do, let me remind the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  or perhaps, appropriately, let me remind the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  of the fate of the Heath Government when it sought to win an election on the misery which followed in the wake of Britain's crippling miners strike when everybody was forced to accept two days work a week and the lights went out almost half and hour after nightfall. That brought about the defeat of that Government. Such action will bring about the defeat of any government, because for a while after a dispute takes place everybody tends to go on the side of the strength; people always go to the side which they think will win. But as people discover that organised labour is not prepared to wilt under these pressures, as they begin to have the scales raked from their eyes and see more clearly what is happening they quickly turn to the side of the underdog. That is what happened in Britain and that is what will happen here if the Government attempts to enforce this legislation. 
Reference was made by the honourable member for Barker  (Mr Porter)  to the case of Woolley v. Dunford in South Australia. He criticised me for seeking to give unions immunity from actions for torts arising out of strike action. But the Woolley v. Dunford case was based upon a decision of the High Court of Britain, upheld by the Privy Council in 1902, the infamous Taff Vale case, which was so bad that the House of Commons was forced in 1906 to bring in a special Act to nullify the effect of that High Court decision. That case was followed by a case against officers of the Australian Workers Union in the same year, 1902, when Spence and Macdonell were charged under the provision of the Taff Vale law. Judgments were entered against them, but it was an archaic decision given by an archaic judicial system that has no place in modern law. The Taff Vale decision was outlawed by the House of Commons, and when it was resurrected in the case of Rookes v. Barnard 60 years later, it was outlawed by the House of Commons again. 
The decisions of the House of Commons were based upon the belief that each human being is the owner of his own body and his own mind and that he cannot be required to deliver those possessions to another human being except on terms and conditions that are acceptable to him. That is a basic human right. It is the right to withhold one's labour and brain power that distinguishes the free man from the slave, and that is something that cannot be gainsaid. If we take away that right from a person we reduce the status of that person to that of a slave. If it is the right of an employer to fix the prices of the goods and services which he has to sell it surely follows that an employee must be given the right to fix the price of the only thing that he or she has to sell - his or her labour power. 
This Government points with pride to the record profits which are now being made by the foreign-owned multinational corporations in Australia. It even points with pride to its own success in reducing the level of real wages so that there should be no profit at all in the sale of what a human being might have to sell in terms of brawn or brain power. This Bill deserves to be rejected. I am certain that if it is not rejected by the Parliament, then the party that supports it will be rejected by the people. 
I would not have risen but for the untrue remarks made by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon).  It is sad to see the performance we have just seen from a former Prime Minister of this country, a member of the Privy Council, a man who has distinguished himself for having a very fine memory. Books have been written about his memory, but tonight we find that the memory has decayed. It is either that or he is lying in this Parliament. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member will use parliamentary language. 
I was about to say that in this Parliament we do not say that people lie, because parliamentarians do not lie. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I understand the point. I ask the honourable member for Hindmarsh to withdraw that remark. 
-Certainly. The right honourable gentleman is wide of the mark when he says that a section was written into the Act in respect of the registration in identical terms to the clause about which we are now talking. I am sorry to say to my right honourable friend that that never happened. No such section was ever put into the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. I will keep talking until the right honourable gentleman can find the previous volume of 1964 and produce it. If he can produce it, I am prepared to wager my cattle station against his that no such provision was ever put into the Act.  Mr McMahon,  one of the advisers who is talking to  Sir William  McMahon now, will tell him that I am correct. 
This Bill is proposing to do the very things which  Sir Robert  Menzies failed to do in 1951, when he sought to amend the Constitution by writing into it every single section of the Communist Party Dissolution Act.  Sir Robert  Menzies tried to discover a way of altering the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to give him the power to prevent communist union officials from holding office, and to prevent people who were declared by the Minister to be supporters of Marx and Lenin from holding office. The Act was even wider. It said that any person who supported any of the principles or teachings of Marx or Lenin would be ineligible to hold office in any trade union.  Sir Robert  Menzies tried unsuccessfully to find a way to achieve those ends constitutionally by means of an alteration to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. He discovered ultimately that it could not be done constitutionally. He was then forced to bring in the Communist Party Dissolution BUI, which was passed and declared unlawful by the High Court of this country. 
This Bill is an attempt to do the thing which  Sir Robert  Menzies was told he could not do. Under this Bill, once a certificate is issued by the Conciliation Commission to the effect that there is a stoppage of work in a particular union which affects the welfare of the community, the Minister will have the right to declare that particular members of that union shall not be eligible to continue to hold office, or that particular members of the union shall not be eligible to contest a ballot for office, or that particular members of a union may not be eligible to record a vote in an election for union officials, or that a particular member or members shall be prohibited from attending a union meeting, voting at a union meeting or attending a meeting of workers on a particular job. 
All of the things that  Sir Robert  Menzies was told he could not do in 1951 when he sought to achieve this very thing by means of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, the advisers to the Government are now saying are possible. Under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act the Government will find that it will be impossible to do these things because the High Court will have to be consistent. I hope that the High Court does say that it is possible to do all of these things. That will leave this Parliament in complete control of the conciliation and arbitration procedures. We will then be able to do that which every State Parliament can do. If we are given the power to do these things the Parliament can fix the minimum wage, the number of weeks leave that employees will be entitled to have on full pay each year, and the period of long service leave we give to our employees. 
Once we start fighting elections on the basis of people voting for the party that is prepared to use the powers of Parliament to increase wages and to reduce the hours of work, I know which party I would like to have my money on. There is the party that is advocating a reduction of hours so that everybody can get a job, or there is the party that says: 'We are going to increase hours and continue to reduce the living standards'. That is the reason why the founding fathers did not want the national Parliament to have the power to legislate directly over wages and working conditions. They did not want to have to fight federal elections on the issue of wages; on the bread and butter issues. They did not want to have to say: 'We are against the Labor Party's proposal for an increase in wages, a reduction in working hours, an increase in sick leave, and an increase in long service leave. Our Party stands for increased hours and for reduced wages. When we get into government we will bring in an Act to do those very things'. That is what all this will lead to and I hope that the High Court does hold that this Parliament has those powers. 
Whilst the Government would have the temporary right to do all of these evil things, it would be only a temporary right, because as soon as it exercised its right in that way it would lose the next election. I would like to see elections fought on bread and butter issues. The trouble with elections today is that they are fought on abstract issues such as foreign affairs and all kinds of other issues that do not directly affect the hip pocket nerve. But if we can have the Parliament doing the things I have mentioned I believe the Liberals would realise that they would be out of government for all time. 
I conclude by again challenging the right honourable member for Lowe to stand up here and produce any Act of this Parliament, whether it be the 1964 amendment which he talked about, which is in identical terms with the clause with which we are now dealing- an Act giving the Minister the right to do all of the things set out in the Bill. 
I take the opportunity of speaking a second time to say something which, after this Bill is carried, I will not be free to say, even in this Parliament. I want to reveal now that I am informed that the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, with the knowledge of the Government, has had a tap on  Mr Justice  Staples 's private telephone for nearly three weeks. It is a damnable thing that a Federal judge should have his - 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Hon. Ian Robinson)- Order! It being 10.30 p.m. I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman, I am astonished that any member of this Parliament would get up in his place and behave as though public servants have any greater morality, greater authority, greater integrity and a greater right to be trusted with these kinds of secrets than has an elected representative of the Parliament. When somebody asks by the way of interjection 'Don't you consider yourself to be equal to a public servant? ', I reject that innuendo also. Any member of parliament who considers himself to be no better than a public servant ought to be treated as no better than a public servant. We are elected by the people of this country; the public servants are not. 
I am bothered by the fact- it worries me- that this Parliament is prepared to pass a Bill that will give public servants who are not answerable to anybody at all the kinds of powers exercised by the OGPU, the Gestapo and the KGB. That is what we are doing. If we have to resort to the tactics of communism to beat communism and nazism to beat nazism, just what have we achieved? What are we left with, if we adopt all of those principles for which the totalitarian countries are so infamous? We have defeated ourselves by default. 
It is an amazing thing to me that anyone would not object to a Minister of State, one of Her Majesty's Executive Councillors, being put in an inferior position to a public servant. That is all the Director-General is, a public servant. We are going to stand up here and solemnly declare that we who are the direct representatives of this democratic society are going to allow ourselves to be treated as inferior to public servants- in effect the faceless people who are nameless and who constitute the Public Service- called ASIO. I do not trust the Public Service at all and I certainly do not trust ASIO. ASIO is made up, to a very large extent, of people who could not get a living anywhere else except in ASIO. Some of them are crooks whose records have never been tested. There is no way of testing them. 
Let me tell honourable members something. I have the number of a car which, I am satisfied in my own mind, was used by ASIO at a quarter past 12 one day of last week to come down to my place at West Lakes to take pictures of the garage in which some of my precious records are stored. They are not stored there any longer. I would not put it past ASIO to mastermind a Watergate attempt to break into my place and take the records that it feels I should not have. I can tell honourable members that we are in the position now where nobody can check on this. The Minister cannot say to ASIO after my speech: 'Have you got anything on Cameron?' If ASIO says 'Yes, we have', the Minister cannot demand that ASIO supply Cameron's file to him. But I am a member of parliament. Something that I just cannot understand is why a Parliament would sit here and allow its authority, its integrity and its prestige and its standing in the community to be so denigrated as is proposed by this Act of Parliament. 
What I find equally astonishing is that members of the Parliament will get up and defend this Bill. I also find it unbelievable that Ministers of State would be party to a proposal that will place them in an inferior position to public servants, secret agents, call them what you like. Members of the secret police is what I call them. They are just as much a branch or just as much an example of the secret police as anything that Hitler ever had. There is no possible way of checking on them, there is no control over the expenditure of the Organisation and there is no way we can tell where the money is spent. The Ministers themselves do not even know whether they are being spied on. 
I say this and I do not say it facetiously: How do members of the coalition know whether they are being spied on by ASIO? How does any member of the Ministry know that he was not spied on by ASIO? How does  Senator Withers  know that he was not spied on by ASIO, at the behest of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  There is no Minister in this Parliament safe from the prying eyes of ASIO. Under this proposal, this Bill that we now have before us, the Prime Minister could, if he discovered that there was a file on somebody, get the file if the Director-General chose to give it to him. We, those of us who have been in government, know the kind of relationship that builds up between an ambitious public servant and a Minister of State. It is highly unlikely that the DirectorGeneral would not give to the Prime Minister the information that was sought. What I find objectionable is the increasing power that one man is gaining over this country, the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister of this country is as much a dictator as Stalin or Hitler ever was. The only difference is that unlike them he has to face an election every three years. In between elections he exercises just as much personal power, dictatorial power over everybody in the Cabinet as did any dictator. This legislation is going to make his power even more absolute. 
I was disapointed to hear the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  say that the proposal put by the Opposition does not give the Minister the right to demand files. On looking at the amendment I am satisfied that that is true. All that the amendment says is that he has the right to ask whether there is a file on a particular person; and once told that a file exists, he is not entitled to have access to any file, dossier or record concerning an individual person unless the Director-General considers it is in the interest of security that the Minister should have it. If the Minister cannot demand the file then there is no way that the Minister can be certain that the Director-General is not lying to him when he says that no file exists. All he has to do is say that no file exists and he overcomes the confrontation that would arise by the Minister's asking him for something that he was not prepared to give him. 
-That is what they said in South Australia- ten per cent of the population. Every member of the Labor Party, State and Federal, had a dossier prepared on him. 
-A few Liberals, three Liberals, were included in it. 
-Yes, trade union officials. Three out of the whole Liberal population of South Australia, but every member of the Labor Party, Federal and State, had a dossier on them. They had a file on me. This is what I think is the whole tragedy of the thing. We are sitting here in this Parliament allowing public servants to con us into doing this sort of thing. Do we not have any self-respect? Do we not have any regard or love for the parliamentary democracy we are talking about? If we do not, let us turn it over to some dictatorial power or authoritarian state. At the rate we are going there is no difference between the system of government that we are slowly building up in this country and the worst features of Stalinism or Hitlerism. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Hon. Ian Robinson)-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I oppose the motion. I did not think I would ever see a day when a so-called parliamentary democracy would allow a Bill such as the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill, which will introduce into this country a police state, to be pushed through the Parliament without proper debate. That is what the motion moved by the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  is all about. He is asking this House to agree to allow a Minister to gag a debate on the introduction of a police state. 
I remember speaking at a meeting of the InterParliamentary Union in Majorca how I astounded some of my co-delegates when I set out some of the complaints I had against the laws and the government of this country. I said that I lived in a country in which people could be forced to fight against their will in an undeclared foreign war; a country in which men could be sent to gaol for refusing to work at a rate of pay fixed by somebody sitting as an arbitrator. I said that I belonged to a country which had a Crimes Act which made it a crime to decide to withhold one's labour until one got a rate of pay that one considered to be justifiable. I went through all the complaints I had about Australia but I concluded my speech by saying: 'But with all the things I have enumerated with which I disagree I have one advantage over most of the delegates at this conference. The advantage is this: When I go back to Australia after condemning my own government in the manner in which I have, nobody will put his hand on my shoulder as I get out of the plane and say "Come with me".' I remarked that to me that represented an enormous advantage. It was something that distinguished my country from those of many of the delegates who had spoken at the same conference. 
-Gough Whitlam did not sack me in 1 974. 
-Now the honourable member is changing his ground. He should make up his mind. Gough Whitlam did not sack me in 1975 either. Gough Whitlam told the Governor-General how to sack Ministers. He pointed out to the Governor-General the section of the Constitution which gave him the right to sack any Minister. There is no such thing in the Constitution as a Prime Minister. I want to correct the honourable member on that point. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! I ask the honourable member for Hindmarsh to remain relevant to the motion. 
-The proposal to gag the debate on a matter such as this must be unprecedented. I could not now go to another international conference and make concluding remarks of the kind I did at the IPU meeting in 1967. This Government is not a democratic government. It treats the Parliament with utter contempt, otherwise it would not have moved a motion such as that which has been moved. This Government is being governed by public servants who are not answerable to anybody. It does not care two hoots for the Parliament. We may as well all pack up, go home and allow the Government to ram through its dictatorial legislation without debate. One would have thought that the Government would at least have gone through the pretence of making it appear that we are living in a democracy. 
I do not know of any democracy in the world in which such a motion could be moved. In the United States a Bill such as the ASIO Bill could certainly not be railroaded through the Congress without proper debate. It was bad enough pushing through the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill without debate and without letting those who wished to make contributions have their say, but to push through a proposal that affects the liberty of every single human being in this country is the last straw. I asked in the debate yesterday- I repeat it now- why is my private residence under almost constant surveillance? That is what I want to know. The Minister will not answer the question. 
-The Minister says that Gough Whitlam wants to look at my papers and that he is about to make a Watergate break into my house. I do not care who is doing it. All I know is that the surveillance is being carried out by two people who are using motor cars from the Commonwealth car pool. 
Last night just before the adjournment debate I made the declaration that a tap had been placed on the private telephone of  Mr Justice  Staples by the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. 
I do know and I am not going to tell the honourable member how I know because when people give me confidential information I never reveal in this place where I get it. That is why I get so much information. People know that they can trust me not to disclose my source. I am expecting to get a little more information as a consequence of the declaration I have now made. 
During the weekend just passed  Mr Justice  Staples phoned me at my home to ask whether I knew whether there was any truth in the newspaper reports that the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  had been the person responsible for leaking to the Press a copy of the letter of  Mr Justice  Staples. I told him- the ASIO tape recording of our conversation will confirm this-that I refused to believe that the Minister had leaked it; that I believed it had been leaked by other persons, perhaps from the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. I asked him whether he had sent copies to the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations, the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations and the employers. This had also been reported in some of the newspapers. He told me quite emphatically that no copy of his letter had gone to the ACTU. I then warned him that I had been informed on impeccable authority that his telephone was under tap. I said to him: 'If you want to say anything more to me that is likely to be of a confidential nature I ask you not to proceed because our telephone is under tap'. 
-He rang me to ask- I repeat what I said earlier- whether I believed there was any truth in newspaper reports that the Minister for Industrial Relations had been the one responsible for leaking a copy of his letter. I denied it. I said that I did not believe that the Minister would do it; that there would be no mileage in it for him; and I am now astonished to learn that somebody from his office, apparently without his knowledge, had done exactly that. I repeat that the tape recording of the conversation which ASIO has in its possession will confirm those remarks. 
It is terribly important that the Minister have the right to call for dossiers and for the files that ASIO might keep. I cite no better case than the case of  Mr Justice  Lionel Murphy, as he now is. When he was the Attorney-General, one Thursday night after the Senate adjourned he decided to go to the headquarters of ASIO in Canberra with  Mr Kerry  Milte and Maureen Barron to have a talk about concern that was being expressed by the Commonwealth Police regarding the security of the Prime Minister of Yugoslavia, who was expected to arrive in Canberra within a few days time. ASIO had previously said that there would be no threat to the Prime Minister's life. It had to say this, because this was the story it had kept feeding to  Senator Greenwood  when he was Attorney-General. When  Senator Murphy  got to the ASIO headquarters he discovered that in point of fact ASIO had received information that it was the intention of Croatian terrorists to put cyanide in the air conditioning system of the Lakeside Hotel. 
What I am telling the Parliament now has never been revealed before but it has to be revealed now because it is germane to the clause that we are talking about.  Senator Murphy  asked the people at ASIO: 'What have you done about this threat?' They replied: 'We have put telephone taps on all the people who we believe might be involved in this attempt to kill the Prime Minister'. He asked: 'What does the telephone tapping reveal?' They replied: 'Oh, we do not know because we have not transcribed the recordings yet'. He asked: 'When do you propose to transcribe them?' They replied: 'Oh, it won't be for a while- perhaps a week or so after the Prime Minister leaves Australia'. He asked: Have you photographs of the Croatian suspects?' They answered: 'Oh, yes, we have photographs'. He asked: 'Have you given photographs to the Lakeside Hotel? "They replied: 'Oh no, but that is a jolly good idea. We have given the Lakeside the names'. He asked: 'Couldn't they change their names?' They agreed: 'Of course, but you have a good idea, AttorneyGeneral. We will give the Lakeside the photos of the suspects'. 

 Senator Murphy then said: 'Now I want to have a look at the file, if I may'. So the people at ASIO handed over the file. Among other things, in the file  Senator Murphy  discovered that there had been a secret meeting among officers of the Department of Immigration, the Department of Foreign Affairs, the Attorney-General's Department, his own Department and the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet at which these officers had decided that they would inform  Senator Murphy  that his answer to a question relating to Croatian terrorism should be in the form of a lie. 
-No, it was not a dummy file, the honourable member would know a lot about this. I will not say any more about his involvement in it. But it was not a dummy file.  Senator Murphy  then discovered to his astonishment that, because the public servants on this interdepartmental committee, had told  Senator Greenwood  to lie to the Senate, they decided it was important that they make  Senator Murphy  lie as well. What I am telling the Parliament now in revealing these facts publicly for the first time ever is information given to me by one of the people who was present at that meeting with ASIO that evening. 
-The honourable member says that Lionel Murphy told him that. I can tell him that somebody else told me the same so that confirms it. What  Senator Murphy  saw in the file was so disturbing that he decided that he would there and then make arrangements to go to Melbourne immediately next day to check on other vital, quite sensational revelations shown up in that file. He sought to make a booking on a VIP aircraft first thing next morning and could not do so because one was not available. But ASIO was immediately told of his attempt to get a VIP aircraft and started to prepare for his visit to the ASIO headquarters in Melbourne next day. When  Senator Murphy  went to the airport on the Friday morning- I was standing alongside him and I can bear witness to the fact that I heard Murphy go through this dialogue- he asked whether he could be given a seat on the aircraft. He was told to his astonishment that every seat was taken up. He said: 'It cannot be that every seat is taken up. Is everybody on yet?' The reply was:' No, but there have been some bookings made by ASIO for all the empty seats. It was not until Murphy discovered about the phantom bookings made by ASIO, for the purpose of preventing his getting a seat to Melbourne, that he asserted his authority as head of ASIO and demanded that seats be given to him. 
ASIO was quite prepared to pay for booked seats it was not going to use in order to prevent its own Minister travelling with one of its officers. On the flight Murphy found himself sitting next to an ASIO officer named Marshall who had been told by his headquarters in Melbourne to bring with him a particular file. Murphy said: What have you got there?' The officer replied: 'I have got a file'. Murphy said: 'I want to have a look at it'. The officer said: 'I am sorry, you cannot have a look inside this file because I am working for the Director-General of ASIO, not for the Attorney-General'. Murphy, it was reported, said: 'You are now working for me; hand it over'. When he had a look at the file what he discovered was nothing short of startling. For people subsequently to talk about - 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  (Hon. Ian Robinson)-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I will not take very long. I now have a copy of the letter circulated to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission by  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Staples. I am concerned that the Press has either deliberately misquoted or has been misled into misquoting that part of the letter which some newspapers say mentions Hitlerite Germany and which others say uses the term Nazi Germany. No such expression appears anywhere in  His  Honour's letter. The letter says this: 
Whether or not the jurisdiction is left in our hands by the High Court, which of us in any event would want to be like the judges in pre-war Germany who simply acted out their office in a train of events that culminated in legal conclusions that 'Jews' and 'Communists' were no longer full citizens entitled to rely on rights previously accumulated, that is to say, were persons who could be struck down by a mere executive act. 
Those remarks which talked about the position that the judges would be placed in were the only remarks anywhere in this letter on which the Press, or whoever handed out a copy of the letter or alleged extracts from the letter to the Press, could have based its reports. But in order to get the worst possible public relations effect of the letter the term 'Hitlerite Germany' was used in one case and in most cases the term 'Nazi Germany' was used. One after the other the newspapers said that  Mr Justice  Staples likened the legislation to Nazi Germany. The situation was entirely different. 
-He did nothing of the kind. That is why I wish to have the letter incorporated in  Hansard.  I hope that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  will give me leave. I am sorry that 
I have not had time to show him the letter but I think that he knows what it is all about. I seek leave to incorporate the letter in  Hansard  so that honourable members can read it and form their own view as to whether the judge has been misreported. Quite clearly, there was an intent to set him up. It backfired and I am glad it did. 
Leave granted. 

 The letter read as follows- 

AUSTRALIAN CONCILIATION AND ARBITRATION COMMISSION 
Chambers, Law Courts Building Queens Square Sydney, 2000 28 September 1979 
CONCILIATION AND ARBITRATION AMENDMENT BILL 1979 
I circulate to members of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission some comments on the proposed amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act introduced into the House of Representatives by the Minister for Industrial Relations on Thursday, 20 September 1979. 
The amendments have been produced under conditions of secrecy not appropriate in a law-making field in which the prime concern is and should remain the conciliation of conflicting interests. 
It appears that the Department of Industrial Relations played no part in the drafting of the amendments, that no member of this Commission was consulted and no trade union or employer or peak council representing employees or employers was consulted. 
The Minister, in his second reading speech claimed that the "initial proposals" (but not, apparently, the final proposals) were shown to some persons present at the National Labour Consultative Council, but he admits that no trade union representatives were present at that meeting. He does not claim that those "initial proposals" were forwarded to the trade union representatives who were entitled to be at the meeting, or left in the possession of the employers' representatives present. He does not claim that the final proposals were shown to any member of the National Labour Consultative Council or to the Council as a whole. Nor does he offer any reason for his failure to take the final proposals to the Council before their introduction into the legislative process. Urgency, if it is ever an excuse for hasty legislating, is not a factor discernible here. 
Considerations of courtesy to this Commission warranted consultation with ourselves if only because the amendments can be construed by uncharitable minds as insulting to the integrity of the Commission as a whole and to certain particular members of it whose decisions are part of the background of the proposed changes. 
Some notice of the "initial proposals" was given to members of the Government parties some weeks ago under conditions of privacy and confidentiality. Persons privy to this disclosure were not permitted to retain the text distributed. Each was required to surrender the same before leaving the place of meeting. "The Government (was) keeping the legislation under tight wraps. Copies were collected at the end of Tuesday night's meeting and backbenchers were asked to regard the briefing as confidential."  (Age,  31 August 1979). 
Law making by these methods is antipathetic to the best procedures open to be pursued in a democratic socity. They deny the search for consensus and the accommodation of conflicting interests. Laws made in such circumstances are not likely to gather up broad assent and respect which it may be desired to put in place of the temptation to resort to force. 
Law reform is often proposed on two grounds: 
Firstly, it may have the purpose to restate in more concrete and substantive manner values which are not obtaining expression in the decisions of persons, judges or administrators. So, a rule must be stated or restated so that its intendment may not be avoided in its application in particular cases. Secondly, law reform is often directed to procedural questions. Most commonly, procedural changes are proposed so as to simplify and expedite, with a reduction in cost, delay and complexity, the trial of issues of fact and law. Procedural reforms set the quality and import of the substantive rules of law. It has been said that the substantive law is secreted in the interstices of procedure'. 
Measured by these considerations the present Bill is not reform: it is reaction. It introduces complexity and delay. It is not argued that the procedural changes are required in order to achieve expedition and economy in the trial of issues. Such a contention would fall before a timeconsuming, cost-incurring, delay-provoking system of resorting to Full Benches on issues which have hitherto been dealt with by one person under the sanction of an appeal procedure, (which is now in practice to be broadly removed with all its benefits taken away). 
The denial of the right of appeal is a step backwards. I take the liberty of reproducing what I wrote in a recent Full Bench decision: 
Institutions such as ours, however, should be structured so as not to afford even the appearance of arbitrariness of judgment, fickleness of decision or other waywardness. That is why an appeal tribunal is put here behind the arbitrator within reach of a dissatisfied party. Law systems that do not provide opportunities for appeal invite suspicion. Thus, the existence of the opportunity to appeal may serve from time to time to condition the manner and the terms in which a decision is brought down. The presence of an appeal tribunal gives confidence to parties to enter into a procedure having a binding result. A decision is more authoritative if it has been confirmed on appeal; it may sometimes fetch authority precisely because it has not been appealed.' (B.W.I.U. and the State Electricity Commission of Victoria, 1 1 May 1979-Print E39.' 
The Bill proposes to require Commissioners to consult with Presidential members in certain circumstances, in a smoke-filled back room, as it were, to deal with the interests of absent parties. In every sense this proposal deprecates the competence and integrity of Commissioners. They are directed to submit their will and their judgment in the discharge of an office (in which they have given their oath faithfully and impartially to perform the duties of that office ') to the overriding determination of another. 
The evil of this proposal is that it can only shake the confidence of parties before a Commissioner in the integrity of any ruling to which he ultimately puts his hand. No party knowing that a Commissioner reserves his decision and submits it to another can have sure confidence that he will report each party's case accurately to the Presidential member or that the Presidential member will accurately understand that party's case. The understanding may be conditioned by the manner in which the Commissioner sees fit, in all good faith, to present it. 
The Minister justifies this astonishing departure from established standards of behaviour by claiming that there is a complex range of awards and agreements within the jurisdiction of the Commission. He argues that 'this very fact demands consistency of principle and decision making  . . there have been some occasions when such consistency has been lacking.' One is entitled to wonder when it came about that identical dollar sums alone may manifest consistency of principle and why a discrepancy in dollar sums manifests a want of principle. 
What is the principle that the Minister contends for? Is it lock-step mechanical judgment in the face of all the circumstances of a case? Is the only decision correct which comes first in time? Is the only decision correct which makes the most modest draft upon the resources of an employer? Is it right that a matter be resolved not by reference to its own facts but by force of other facts established by other persons between other parties? What do we have an appeal procedure for? 
No person need fear that I will deal with the interests of patties whom I have not heard in open court. I will prefer to be a member of a panel of one or, if this is not convenient, to require that any consultation take place in open court with the parties present by way of a rehearing. 
I would do this acting out the values expressed by the Privy Council in the Boilermakers' Case 95 C.L.R. 529 &amp; 544: 'The same qualities of fairness, patience and courtesy should be exhibited by conciliator, arbitrator or judge alike . . . none of them should act without hearing both sides of the case.' It would be inconceivable that the community would tolerate judges acting in the manner enjoined of Commissioners and Presidential members by the Bill. 
Clause 6 of the Bill deals with stand-downs. It sanctions one of the great evils that beset the judicial process from time to dme, namely, the manoeuvring of parties to select the judge of their cause. Where an applicant for a stand-down finds success in doubt he may have another court as of right (even after a matter has been reserved for decision) and thereby not only does he shed one judge but he deprives his opponent of a right of appeal against the decision taken at first instance. Moreover, an exercise expressed to be directed to expedition is thereby beset with delay. 
Further, the second court is permitted to take short cuts without the consent of the parties by having regard to evidence given and arguments adduced in the previous attempt at a trial at first instance. 
Time lost through industrial action. 
The Minister in his second reading speech described his amendments in terms of 'time lost' and 'industrial action'. It is to be noted that 'industrial action' embraces conduct not involving a strike, e.g. bans. Such bans do not necessarily involve any loss of working time. Nonetheless they may attract the amendment. To the extent that the Minister adopted the phrase 'dme lost' he has not stated accurately what is embraced by the proposal, which is directed to claims in respect of a period during which the employees are engaged in industrial action'. This need not necessarily have involved the loss of time as in a strike. The claim may arise in a period in which work was done. The Minister seeks to enrich employers by saving them from paying for what is done. 
This amendment seeks to defeat the common law and to deny employees access to this Commission in the interest of employers. It can only serve to depreciate the status of this Commission in the eyes of the millions of employees who contribute by their taxes to its support, for it is proposed to forbid members of the Commission to attempt to prevent and settle by conciliation and arbitration industrial disputes. 
It occurs under the same speech in which the Minister complains that some unions have failed to bring their disputes to the commission and have 'rejected the proper processes for settling their disputes'. Yet here there is a denial of all process for settling a dispute. 
Other members of the Commission have mentioned to me cases in which they have given decisions which they believe would be caught by the amendment. I wish to add to the count a ruling I gave in a dispute between the Union of Postal Clerks and Telegraphists and the Australian Postal Commission on 26 April 1979 (Print D9961)-a ruling which provoked a certain displeasure in high places at the time. It was a 'no work no pay' case. In the particular case an employee had carried out 99.999 per cent of his duties, omitting one of trifling significance as a work task but of monstrous import to the bureaucratic mind, for by reason of a union ban he had declined to sign a document which was otherwise authentic, complete and accurate, lacking merely his mark. He had performed in every other respect his duties faithfully and well but for none of it would the employer pay him. It was plain to me that the employer had requested implicitly, if not explicitly, the doing of the work for which it would not pay. Inter aiia, I had this to say on the 'work-on but no pay ' principle: 
My understanding of the law and the position is perfectly clear. A servant has certain entitlements of his master and he has certain duties towards his master. If the contract of employment requires of the servant that he should perform certain duties then a refusal by the servant to perform those duties provides an option to the employer. Where a servant declines to perform a task within the duties contemplated by the contract of service the employer may treat the contract as being at an end. It is voidable at his option; he may, if he wishes, dismiss the servant; he may, if he wishes, ignore the refusal. But he is not entitled to take the benefit of services rendered by the employee, by the servant, without paying a fair price for them. It may be that the price that is deemed fair and which ought to be paid by the master to his servant for such services as the master accepts, explicitly or implicitly, from the servant ought not to be remunerated by reference to the amount due if the service that is refused were given and taken into account. In other words, a fair price for the service that is rendered by the servant may not be one that is determined by reference to the wage due in the ordinary circumstance, but it does not follow that a fair wage for services that are offered and accepted may be refused out of hand. The master is under a duty to pay for what he accepts from his servant. The master, however, has another resort and that is to sue the servant for damages if he declines to dismiss him, and he may recover damages from the servant simply for the mere refusal to carry out the full intent of the bargain. The mere breach of the contract gives rise immediately to a right to nominal damages arising from the fact of the breach. Whether the master is entitled to recover damages that are not nominal but, indeed, are substantive is a question that needs to be determined by reference to the loss suffered by the master as the result of the breach. 
In the present case the position taken by Australia Post is ' We will accept the servant and we are accepting the service*. Indeed, it has been represented to me that they actually threatened someone against withdrawing service, or more accurately, perhaps, required of that person that he should actually continue to render service and not go home, although he was on no pay. 
It is not conceivable to me that any authority can be found in the common law which will support a result that the Postal Commission is entitled to take the services without payment on the facts that I have been dealing with here. The Postal Commission, one would have thought, consistent with its being a creature of statute law would at least seek to justify its position by argument about the consequences of the common law rules. However, here they seek to evade the obligations that may appear to be cast upon them by the common law by arguing that in this tribunal there is no jurisdiction to deal with the matter, and further they put that the employee if dissatisfied can take them to law in another place. 
Let me just put the position as I see it. Every citizen in this community has a duty to adhere to the rules of law and has no privilege to escape his obligations by reason merely that he has not been ordered by a court to carry out that which the law prescribes, just as I have a duty to conform to the rules of law as I understand them to be and am bound to do my best to carry them out without the command of a court. 
In my view the Australian Postal Commission, being a creature of the parliament, is acting inconsistently with the public's interest in the upholding of the law if they decline to act out the rules of law of their own volition and sit pat waiting until someone sues them in a court properly vested with the jurisdiction to make the orders appropriate in the circumstances. People should volunteer to obey the law, the Australian Postal Commission should volunteer to obey the law, and the law includes not only the statutes but the rules of common law; in this case, contrary to what one would expect of a great statutory corporation, we find people sitting pat and asking others not nearly as equally placed as they are to call on the courts in their aid if they have a complaint. 
Not only in my view is the Postal Commission at law misconducting itself on the facts revealed to me, but they are misconducting themselves in that they are seeking to impose a situation of total inequality upon their employees. In my view, the proper position for Australia Post to take up at this dme is to pay the employees and then sue the employees at law if Australia Post feel the law is on its side. The resources available to Australia Post to conduct litigation on its own initiative are infinitely greater than are the resources of ordinary employees, and if the law is on its side and it is justified in pursuing the line of conduct it would lead to the consequence that Australia Post should do the right thing and pay these people for the work taken from them, and if it feels it has suffered a loss that goes beyond nominal damages, it can sue to recover the losses.' 
It is proposed in Clause 8 to empower the  President  to take a matter out of the hands of a member of the Commission which is actively before him if he is of the opinion that there are 'special reasons' to justify his so doing. What considerations, one is entitled to ask, constitute 'special reasons'. A definition would be peculiarly appropriate here. 
Nothing is more calculated to strike at the independence and authority of any member of the Commission than that he be under threat of becoming disentitled to act if he does not please. By what corridor of power may complainants hope to reach the ear of the  President  and to induce him to defrock a colleague? What pressures may we expect to be brought against a recalcitrant  President  if he fails to respond to insinuations, subtle or overt, against one judge in favour of another? How will the  President  satisfy himself that there are special reasons'? 
With whom is he to consult? With the parties? Severally, or altogether, or shall strangers be consulted? Or shall the  President  be left to act with all the appearance of caprice? 
The power to remove a matter before a member of the Commission from his hands falls somewhere near a power already in the Act (s. 23 (3) ), under which Presidential members may allocate work to members of the panel who are bound to comply with the directions of the Presidential member. There is no basis for concluding that the power of a Presidential member to organise and allocate the work of a member of his panel permits what is here proposed. I had occasion, not so long ago, to give a direction to a member of my panel not to take any step in a matter which had been previously under his active attention, and which came before me in his absence. My direction gave rise to certain misunderstandings. 
The member of my panel affected was away on vacation when a matter was notified to me and was urgent. When it was last before my colleague certain recommendations he had made had been rejected. The matter had been stood over generally. When it blew up again, I conferred privately with the parties. I gained a strong impression that a manoeuvre was on foot, notwithstanding the urgency of the matter and the absence of my colleague, to delay a further hearing in the Commission until he returned and became available. I had the strong impression that this manoeuvre was founded on two considerations- firstly, to ensure that I did not hear the matter and secondly, to ensure that my colleague did. To put a short word on what I believed to be going on, some persons were intent on selecting the judge of their cause. I gave the direction, of which I immediately informed the parties, without explanation, in order to make it perfectly plain that I would not permit it to appear that outsiders could influence the procedures of this Commission. Whether the particular means I chose to quash the ambitions that I detected were politic is a matter that others may question. It was not my purpose to act against my colleague's stature, rather to uphold his and mine and the independence of the Commission. This amendment strikes at the concept of judicial independence. 
Moreover, the amendment curtails a provision in the Act which is intended to serve the interest that justice shall appear to be done. Section 22 provides that where a member of the Commission has exercised powers with respect to conciliation he shall not participate in an arbitration, if there is an objection. 
Under this proposal the  President  is free to attempt a conciliation and thereafter to impose an arbitration at his will. So much for the spirit of s. 22 (2). 
It is proposed in Clause 16 to empower a Full Bench to make relevant declaration where it is satisfied that two persons have been in the past engaged in industrial action (e.g. a ban) which has had a substantial adverse effect on the welfare of part of the community. 
The declaration may rest upon the losses alleged to have been incurred by shareholders. Such persons are 'part of the community'. The system is not limited to present or future situations and would not be any more acceptable if it were. 
One of the key practices of totalitarian and authoritarian regimes is to dissolve trade unions and to put puppets in their place. This legislation provides for precisely that possibility. 
The amendment is framed so as to manoeuvre this Commission into providing respectability for an exercise which is essentially reactionary and under which this Commission may be rendered perfectly superfluous if it is not willing to be an instrument of the Government's will in a particular case. We have already seen a number of examples recently where the present Government's will has been declared to have been thwarted by the decisions of this Commission. So, amendments have been brought into the Act and are now proposed again for the Act in order to promote the authority of the Government over our deliberations. Under this amendment, if the Government can empower the Commission to make a declaration it can, as well, amend the law so that it may proceed without the need for our declaration. We shall be left with the power only so long as we exercise it to the pleasure of the Government. 
One could write a treatise on the unconstitutionality of this proposal taken as a whole. It is not a proposal to prevent and settle industrial disputes by conciliation and arbitration. Its purpose is to proceed to put an end to relevant industrial action by Government harassment, oppression and expropriation. Furthermore, a choice is given to the Government either to cancel registration or to set at nought the rights of a particular employee. By stripping a man of his civil rights, he becomes to that extent an outlaw. It is not to the point to clothe this diminution of status under the misleading phrase suspension'. A man at any point of time is either within or without the law. This proposal seeks power to put a man outside the law and to do it withal by executive act. 
Who wishes to co-operate in Full Benches trying such applications? Whether or not the jurisdiction is left in our hands by the High Court, which of us in any event would want to be like the judges in pre-war Germany who simply acted out their office in a train of events that culminated in legal conclusions that 'Jews' and 'Communists' were no longer full citizens entitled to rely on rights previously accumulated, that is to say, were persons who could be struck down by a mere executive act. 
I am opposed to the amendments one and all and I would wish that my colleagues were too. We shall be lesser men and women and of lesser use to the community as a whole if they become law. 
F. Staples, Deputy President 
I am not giving an opinion on the matter at all - 
-If anything, I have given reasons why in certain circumstances no charge of contempt could possibly be levelled against the public servant. This is a terribly important issue. It has never been raised in this House before in the context in which it has now been raised and it becomes a matter of tremendous importance by way of precedent. I think that you,  Mr Speaker,  ought to reserve your opinion on the matter - 
-Yes, I know.  Mr Speaker,  you ought to reserve your opinion on the matter, tell us later what you decide and let the Privileges Committee determine it, if that is your opinion. 

 Mr HOWARD (Bennelong-Treasurer)-In making my statement a moment ago, I think I gave the House the impression that it was the Treasury that told the Committee that it did not believe that it could give a written submission and the reasons for that. On checking my papers I find that, in fact, it was I who told the Committee that the Treasury would not be making a submission and the reasons for that. I make the observation that that gives added substance to the point I was making. 
-This, as the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  has indicated, is an historic occasion. It is the first time that the Parliament has used this method of dealing with the Estimates and with Budget matters. I must confess that I have not attended any of the Estimates committee meetings, and I am not very proud to have to make that confession. But I shall be attending future meetings of the committees because I believe that they have a very useful function to perform. I am disturbed, however, by some of the remarks made by the honourable member for McMillan. He found cause to complain about the apathy, or perhaps even worse, the cavalier attitude of Ministers towards the various committee meetings. What the honourable member for McMillan was really saying when he talked of the cavalier attitude of Ministers towards Estimates committees of this House is that there is a cavalier attitude by the Public Service towards the Parliament. It is not the Minister who is to be blamed in most of these cases. It is very rarely that a Minister would say, 'Look, I know the answers. I can help the committee with some of the information it wants, but I am not going to bother to go before the committee. To hell with the Parliament. I am a Minister and I am not going near the committee '. 
Ministers do not do that unless they are incompetent. What is happening here is that in so many governments, whether they be Liberal or Labor- and I am not trying to make a party political issue out of this- there are so many Ministers in all Cabinets, Liberal and Labor alike, or shall I say some Ministers, who are just not capable of administering their departments. They are just not competent to do it. I was a first class Minister for Industrial Relations and a hopeless Minister for Science. I knew nothing about science. 
-The honourable member has got it right for once, but the then Prime Minister, in his very doubtful wisdom, decided that he would deprive the Department of Labour and Industry of the best Minister it had ever had and give to the Department of Science probably the worst Minister it had ever had, bar one. That is the sort of thing that happens. In the case of Liberal governments where the Prime Minister has the personal selection of Ministers, I blame him personally for bad ministries. In the case of Labor governments, the Prime Minister cannot be blamed for the selection of the Cabinet. He can be blamed for trying to put square pegs in round holes, as sometimes also happens. 
We ought to remember that criticisms of Ministers are really criticisms of the Public Service, The Public Service is becoming quite contemptuous of the Parliament. The Public Service, which props up certain Ministers- that is as good a description of the relationship between certain Ministers and the Public Service as I can usefeels that it ought not to be bothered coming to the committees at all. We are approaching- and I think, approaching at a much more rapid pace than many of us realise- a situation where this 
Parliament is going to lose its relevancy altogether. That is true, whether there is a Liberal government in power or a Labor government in power. It is true of State governments, both Liberal and Labor, the same as it is true of Federal governments. But it is a luxury that we cannot afford much longer, because once the contempt with which the Public Service and its stooge Ministers treat us is recognised, then the people outside are entitled to have the same contempt for the Parliament as the public servants have for it. 
There is one thing that public servants are very good at and that is politeness. Public servants know that if they call the Minister 'Minister' often enough and get the word 'Minister' into each sentence as many times as possible without making complete fools of themselves, the Minister gets so big in the head that in the end he believes that he is the department. He does not realise that he is a puppet on a string being played for a sucker by the public servants who laugh behind his back every time he turns his back on them. The two Ministers at the table, the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  and the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen),  are good Ministers. They are laughing with me, not at me, I am pleased to say. They know that what I am saying is true. They are two of the few Ministers who know what it is all about, although the Minister for Defence does not seem to have a tremendous interest in his department. If only he could develop an interest I think that he would be a good Minister. 
I do not think that he would take a position like that. The committees have to insist upon the Ministers' attending their hearings. They ought to insist upon the Ministers' answering proper questions. By that I do not mean that a committee is entitled to make a Minister give information relating to matters of policy that are in the course of being hammered out. That is not what I am talking about. But the committees are entitled to be given factual information that does not impinge upon matters of policy about costs, about where the money is being spent and what it is proposed to do with certain projects. If a Minister does not do that, which is another way of saying that the public servants propping him up have refused to do it, the committee ought to report back to the Parliament and have that Minister charged with contempt and made to explain why he should not be dealt with. Unless that is done, the committee system, which is a marvellous concept, will not produce the results that those of us who are supporting it believe it is capable of producing. Something had to be done about this Parliament. We can not go on as we are, making meaningless speeches in the House, very often with somebody writing the speech for us before we leave home and reading it without alteration regardless of what is said before us and without any regard to whether it is germane to the issues that are under debate. That is not the way to run the national Parliament. 
When I first came into the Parliament members were not allowed to speak from notes or to read their speeches. They could not go to somebody in some office and say: 'Look, you are interested in white ants. What about writing me a speech on white ants?' I remember that I gave a speech in the House one night on the stars. At least it was not written out. I was well briefed. I remember Jim Cope trying to be funny. He said to me: 'Have you ever seen Mars?' I said: 'No, but I have seen Uranus! ' This was the standard of the cut and thrust of Parliament when people did not come along with speeches written out. It made Parliament worth while. I think that was a pretty common, crass and crude sort of way to behave. This is the first time that I have mentioned that incident since it occurred because it is not something that I think we ought to boast about. The Parliament nonetheless was a different institution in those days from what it is now. If we could only get members of the Parliament to debate as we had to debate in the golden days when it was against the Standing Orders to read a prepared speech, the debates in this House would mean something again. People would want to get into the Parliament and stop here. The public outside would have the sort of respect for us that we should never have lost. 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman, I have to support the view you expressed earlier in the debate; that it is a pity the Government has seen fit once again to interfere with the independence of the Remuneration Tribunal. The Tribunal was established by the Labor Government because it felt that it was demeaning to the Parliament, that it was putting members of the Parliament in a false position, to have to fix its own salaries. Until the Tribunal was established that was the position that applied here. Having established the Tribunal we believed that this situation would come to an end. It should have come to an end. It would have come to an end but for the stupidity of certain people in the Senate in 1974 who moved to set aside the determination in that year. We are now in no better position than we were in before the Tribunal was established when we had to face the responsibility of personally fixing our own salaries. It is an invidious position for parliamentarians to be in and it is a position which distinguishes us from all the State parliaments. The question has been asked: Why is it that only members of the national Parliament, whose responsibility is greatest of all, receive any odium for salary increases? People have asked: Why is it that Federal members are attacked whenever a salary increase is proposed but that the State members, whose responsibility is infinitesimal compared with the responsibility of the national Parliament, never have a word of criticism levelled at them at all? The answer is very simple. It is because the States have a truly independent tribunal. For example, Queensland's country members receive much more than do the country members in this Parliament. In Queensland there is not a word of protest, very often not even a line in a newspaper, because the decision is seen for what it is- a decision of an independent tribunal. 
The Remuneration Tribunal recommended that shadow Ministers receive expenses for an unlimited number of nights. We are not helping the Parliament by making the Opposition inoperative. We are not helping parliamentary democracy by tying the hands of our shadow Ministers behind their backs. We are not helping the people we pretend to serve when we do that kind of thing to Her Majesty's Opposition. It does not matter whether it is a Liberal government or a Labor government, the Opposition of the day has a terribly important role to play. We ought not do as is now suggested- attempt to tie their hands behind their backs so they cannot do anything about it. 
I have never had any compunction about accepting the salary that I receive. I have always been underpaid. I have always been worth a lot more than I have ever received in the Parliament. With my talents, with my special gifts and ability, I could get twice the amount I receive in Parliament. Anyone who knows me will testify to the fact that I am worth a lot more than I have ever got in the Parliament; and more particularly perhaps as a shadow Minister than as a Minister. When I was a shadow Minister I worked just as hard with fewer staff than I did when I was a Minister. Whatever my faults might have been as a Minister - 
I do not admit any of them. One thing no one can say about me is that I was a lazy Minister or that I was a Minister who did not apply himself with dedication to his work. What I cannot understand about this Government is its reasoning and its rationale for setting aside the decisions of the Tribunal. I cannot understand why it has set aside the Tribunal 's decision to increase the salary allowance for Ministers. If anybody who has been a Minister thinks that a Minister is overpaid, he could not have been doing his job properly. No Minister in this Parliament, even those for whom I have very little admiration in the political sense as distinct from the personal sense, is not worth the money he is getting. Ministers are worth a lot more than they are getting. I believe that it is a travesty of the whole principle of democracy that a public servant should get a lot more money than the Minister whom he is supposed to serve. 
I am glad to hear the honourable member say that. I have been pressing the Parliament for a long time to try to get a little self-respect. I have pleaded with the Parliament to try to obtain a little self-respect. The Ministers ought to show a little more selfrespect than they now show towards the ministries they administer. In my view a Minister who is prepared to vote for a salary that places him below his First Division officer is not a man who understands the proper relationship that ought to exist between a Minister of State and the Public Service. 
I am glad to hear the honourable member say that. Of all the penny-pinching attitudes that the Government has adopted towards private members and Ministers, the suggestion that if we accept this measure we might set an example to the rest of the community and that people will stop claiming increases in wages is demonstrably false. 
Even if it could be proven, how does the Government justify chopping back the salaries of Ministers recommended to it by the Tribunal but giving the whole of the increase recommended by the Tribunal to the First Division officers? If anybody ought to be setting an example to the community it is the First Division officers, the Second Division officers and the top ranking Third Division officers. They are getting more than anybody. They are getting all sorts of perks about which we know nothing. They get a superannuation scheme to which they make absolutely no contribution. 
-None at all. They loan the fund 5 per cent of their salaries each year. At the end of their term they demand the return of the loan, plus interest. Their 50 per cent superannuation pensions are paid without a single cent coming from them. Yet they have permanency. The real justification for superannuation for parliamentarians is the fact that once they get into this place they cross the Rubicon for all time. They have to be given some guarantee against the day when they will lose their seats or have to retire for some reason or another. They are entitled to a generous superannuation scheme. We have to pay 1114 per cent of our salaries into the scheme. We get no return by way of a lump sum reimbursement of that payment at the end of our pensionable term. 
I have a great sympathy for the Tribunal. I have an enormous respect for  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Campbell and the way in which he carries out his tasks. I believe that we ought to have a little more understanding about how the Tribunal feels to be told that it is an independent tribunal and then to have its independence stripped away as it has been stripped away on this occasion. We ought to be a little more sensitive to the feelings of people who ought to be in a position of complete and absolute independence. We should not simply ride roughshod over their decisions as we do now, almost by habit. The Tribunal recommended that parliamentary salaries should be adjusted every half year. That recommendation has been scrapped by the Government. This raises once again the relationship between the executive arm of government and Parliament. What right has the executive arm of government to tell members of Parliament what their salaries should be? 
-It has none at all. I am pleased to hear the honourable member say that. Eventually this message will get through the dense heads of some of those who continue to support the executive arm of government in its fight against the Parliament. Eventually they will agree with what I have been crying out for for years. We should stand up and tell the government that the Parliament and the government are two separate institutions, that the government has no right to tell the Parliament what it has to do, that the Parliament ought to be the body to tell itself how much its budget will be and not the crowd of people in a corner of this Parliament. The whole thing is so preposterous that words fail me. I cannot properly express my indignation at the thought that here am I, an elected member of the national Parliament, being told by members of the Executive and the public servants who prop them up that I cannot have what the independent tribunal says that I can have. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I refer to the recent handless body murder case in the United Kingdom and to the report that some five or six New Zealanders have already been arrested as suspects in the case. Further, it has been widely reported that other New Zealanders are already operating in Australia and have been direct parties to murders in this country. In the light of this further evidence of the difficulties that arise from having no control over trans-Tasman travel, should not this country again approach the New Zealand Government on the matter? In the event of that Government refusing, for reasons associated with the tourist lobby, to co-operate with us in preventing heroin addicts and drug runners from coming into the country, should we not act unilaterally to place these people under a requirement to enter or leave the country only upon production of an identity card or passport? Should there not be a further requirement that before and after they are allowed to pass through the exit gates in Sydney they be placed under closed circuit scrutiny and not allowed to leave until they have been cleared by the computer data bank in Canberra? 
It has come to my ears that Squizzy Williams of the Queensland branch of the Australian Workers Union is slandering me with statements that my charge that he presided over an unlawful manipulation of union funds was a libel and that he will take me to court if I repeat the truth outside the Parliament. I am concerned that I should be falsely charged with committing a libel, but when I examine Williams' court record I remain unmoved by his threat to face me in open court. 
Squizzy Williams is notorious for using stop writs to prevent people from telling the truth about him. Some years ago he issued a writ against Leo Lorimer of Perth for truthfully accusing him of masterminding unlawful alterations to AWU rules, but then withdrew his complaint and paid all of Lorimer 's costs rather than face Lorimer 's charges in open court. Before that, on 12 December 1965 to be precise, he served a writ on Trevor Alexander of Goondiwindi, claiming £5,000 damages for the fact that Alexander had repeated a very serious criminal allegation made against Williams by John Mulkey and Roy Devin of Goondiwindi. But right on the doorstep of the court, so to speak, he dropped his claim for damages and paid his own costs in return for an unpublished statement which merely said that Alexander did not believe the criminal allegation made by Mulkey and Devin against Williams. He did this rather than face Alexander's witnesses in open court. Significantly, he has still taken no court action against Mulkey and Devin. I know the nature of those charges. I challenge Williams to disclose to his associates the charges made against him by Alexander and by Mulkey and Devin and to explain to his associates why he squibbed a court hearing of those charges. He might also expand on what was known in AWU circles as the quarry affair. 
-Tom Foley, who once served as Queensland Minister responsible for home affairs and had ministerial control of the Queensland Police, gave me certain information from police files. This information, together with certain documents, is kept in a locked vault to which I hold the keys. Also inside that vault are certain instructions which, among other things, direct that if I should predecease Williams those documents are to be handed to a named Labor member of Parliament with my full authority to use them as he thinks proper in the circumstances. This means that there is no such thing as the final solution in this matter. In conclusion, I want to say this: I shall continue to defend my good name against the lies of my defamers. If  Mr Williams,  or Squizzy as he prefers to be called, continues to defame me either personally or by proxy, I shall return to the facts of this case so that my position in relation to his will be put in proper perspective. &lt; 
-I wish to make a personal explanation on the ground that I have been misrepresented by last night's  Hansard  record. 
-To show how obvious the misrepresentation is it is necessary to look at the text, and it speaks for itself. Last night I referred to some very serious accusations of a criminal nature made against Squizzy Williams of the Queensland branch of the Australian Workers Union by two persons whom I named. I said that the late Tom Foley had given me certain information from police files. I am then reported as having said: 
This information, together with certain documents, are kept in a locked vault to which I hold the keys. Also inside that vault are certain instructions which, among other things, direct that I should predecease Williams those documents are to be handed to a named Labor member of parliament with my full authority to use them as he thinks proper in the circumstances. This means that there is no such thing as the final solution in this matter. 
In fact, I did not say that I had issued instructions that I should predecease  Mr Williams.  What I said was that I had issued instructions that should I predecease  Mr Williams,  certain documents shall be made available. I am not the sort of person who gives instructions of the kind attributed to me in the  Hansard  record of last night. I hope that no one would believe that of me for one second. I have taken this matter up with the Principal Parliamentary Reporter. He has now informed me in writing that what I have said today is what I said in my speech, not what has been attributed to me. The Principal Parliamentary Reporter said that it has now been established that this was a printer's error. The chief of the  Hansard  staff stated that the  Hansard  copy, as sent to the Government Printer, read: 
. if I should predecease  Mr Williams  - 
This notification was signed by John Kerr. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 -Yes, Mr Speaker. I refer to a statement made yesterday afternoon by the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly).  He stated that every member, every Minister of the Whitlam Government virtually acquiesced in what ultimately took place when, by military force, the Indonesians took over the Portuguese half of Timor. The honourable member for Bradfield went on to say: 
That is a political fact with which the Timorese and we will have to live for a long time. 
That is quite untrue. No member of the Whitlam Government, other than  Mr Whitlam  himself, was a party to the secret conversations which took place between  Mr Whitlam  and  President  Suharto which led to the annexure of East Timor by Indonesia. 
-Mr Whitlam will deny anything if it suits him, so I do not take any notice of  Mr Whitlam  's denials. The fact is that no member of the Cabinet was consulted on this matter. The then Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Senator Willesee,  told me that he had no knowledge of the conversation that took place between  Mr Whitlam  and  President  Suharto. I am reliably informed that  President  Suharto was just as astonished to hear  Mr Whitlam  's remarks as were his own colleagues in the Cabinet. I am also reliably informed that the Department of Foreign Affairs knew nothing about the conversation between  Mr Whitlam  and  President  Suharto. 
It may be, but the fact is that it was not something prompted by the Department and it was not prompted by the then Minister for Foreign Affairs. No member of the Whitlam Cabinet was ever told about the conversation, and certainly did not approve of it. Moreover, no member of the Whitlam Cabinet knew of the shooting of the journalists. The signals that came back to Australia concerning the murder of those men were suppressed, not only from the public but from Cabinet members as well. 
-Does the Minister for Finance know of any law that entitles a public servant to authorise the payment of amounts of up to $200,000 of taxpayers ' money to any individual without the authority of Parliament? Can he say whether Parliament has made provision for such a payment in any of its estimates? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 22 March 1979: 
Has his attention been drawn to the result of a study conducted by  Mr Nick  Renton, Executive Director, Life Offices' Association, stating the average cost of Public Service retirement benefits to each taxpayer is now$16 per week; if not, will he have the report put to study and publish the result in order to encourage public debate on the subject of a National Superannuation Scheme. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 22 March 1979: 
1 ) What is the annual cost to taxpayers for meeting the cost of retirement benefits to (a) Commonwealth public servants, (b) State public servants and (c) local government officers. 
What is the anticipated cost of meeting retirement benefits for each of these groups in 1 988. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister for Industrial Relations, by reminding the Minister that former public servants in receipt of superannuation pensions are guaranteed by an Act introduced into this Parliament by his Government indexation of their weekly payments on the basis of 100 per cent of consumer price index movements. How does he reconcile a policy of full indexation of the total weekly payments of those who are no longer working for the Commonwealth, while at the same time advocating only partial indexation of the wages of those who are still working for the Commonwealth? 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
Will he give the Parliament a copy of the submission proposing the recent 1 1 per cent increase in postal charges. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 8 November 1979: 
Is the Australian Wheat Board selling promissory notes to the value of $167 million through syndicates of money market dealers and merchant bankers; if so, what is the justification for this action. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 8 March 1979: 
Will he again read his answer to Question No. 1680  (Hansard,  9 November 1978, page 2709) and give an answer as to the date on which the General Manager of the Australian Broadcasting Commission first informed him of the Commission's intention to discontinue its  This Day Tonight  program. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 21 August 1979: 
Has his attention been drawn to reports of an allegation made by  Ms Gay  Thompson, South Australian Secretary of the Administrative and Clerical Officers' Association, that flexi-time has become the greatest disguise for public servants with alcohol problems, if so, does it concern him that certain members of the Australian Public Service are abusing flexi-time in the manner described by  Ms Thompson  to a seminar of public servants held in Adelaide on 1 3 June 1 979. 
