My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture and refers to the locust plague which has severely damaged the grain industry in central Queensland, and the fact that none of last year's Federal grant was made available to Queensland. Is it true that approaches have recently been made by a number of bodies, including the Queensland State Government, to the Federal Government for aid in attempting to protect this vital industry? ls the Government prepared to consider allowing any future Federal grants to be available for control of all species of plague locusts which seriously threaten our rural industry? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Following the Treasurer's announcement last night that the Government had decided to defer or drastically cut back its social welfare program, a program enunciated and much vaunted only 2 months ago when the Government must have known exactly the health of the nation's economy, what programs other than those outlined by the Treasurer last night have been deferred or curtailed? In particular, I would like to know: Will this list include the curtailment of the Australian Labor Party's only new 1974 welfare policy which was to exclude from death duties the matrimonial home when it passes to the spouse of the deceased? 
-I remind the Minister representing the Treasurer of his statement in the Senate last week that the Social Welfare Commission report on child care would be tabled in due course. Has the Government received this report? Can the Senate be given a more precise indication of when to expect this report? In view of the urgent need of our children in this regard, will the Minister undertake to release the report quickly? Will the Government make an early review of its recent decision to give child care much lower priority than it undertook to give this matter during the election campaign? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to reports that a number of local governments in Queensland have been forced to retrench staff and that others will have to follow suit in the near future because of greatly increased operating costs, particularly wages? Is the Minister aware that substantial expenses were incurred by local governments in preparing their submissions for the Grants Commission last year? Since there has been no indication to date as to when local government will receive financial assistance through Commonwealth Government grants, as promised, can the Minister tell the Senate when an announcement on this assistance can be expected? Of course, the Minister will realise that the question has nothing to do with the recently failed referendum. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What programs other than those outlined by the Treasurer in a Ministerial statement made on 23 July 1974 on the inflationary situation, are to be deferred or curtailed. 
Will these include the curtailment of the Government's only new welfare policy in 1974, to exclude from death duties the matrimonial home when it passes to the spouse of the deceased. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. Is he aware that the recent statement by the Minister for Social Security,  Mr Hayden,  on the payment of special benefits to supporting fathers has created some confusion in the community as to the entitlement of those fathers to government assistance? Is it true that these benefits are normally available for only short periods to the father of an ill pre-school age child and then only if it is not possible to arrange any other form of care for the child, such care being entirely at his own cost? Is it also true that fathers of children suffering chronic or long term illness can obtain extended periods of payment of this benefit only in very special circumstances and that approval of the benefit can be given only by the Director-General of Social Security? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration: Has he seen reports of a circular letter from  Mr Jack  Egerton,  President  of the Brisbane Trades and Labour Council and State  President  of the Australian Labor Party in Queensland? Does he agree with  Mr Egerton  's opinion that anarchy has prevailed in a number of industrial disputes recently and that the trade union movement is now at its lowest ebb? Does he agree that some trade unions are engaging in disputes without any thought to the welfare of fellow trade unionists and the general public and that the integrity of unions and the union movement has been called into question? What action does the Government intend to take to meet such industrial anarchy as exists in Australia and to restore and protect the rights of the public and rank and file union members? 
I  present the following petition from 50 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: whereas the Government of the United Kingdom, United States of America, Canada and many European countries have not recognised the unlawful annexation of the Baltic 
States- Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia by the Soviet Union, the Prime Minister of Australia has authorised the de jure recognition of this annexation. 
According to the Charter of the United Nations, the Baltic States are entitled to independence and their people to selfdetermination. 
We beg that such de jure recognition be disallowed. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Since similar petitions have been read  I  do not intend to move that this petition be read. 
I present the following petition from 30 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: whereas the Government of the United Kingdom, United Stales of America, Canada and many European countries have not recognised the unlawful annexation of the Baltic States- Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia by the Soviet Union, the Prime Minister of Australia has authorised the de jure recognition of this annexation. 
According to the Charter of the United Nations, the Baltic States are entitled to independence and their people to selfdetermination. 
We beg that such de jure recognition be disallowed. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has the Attorney-General given instructions to expedite the consideration of the Manning Committee's Report on the operation of the Bills of Exchange Act; if so, when did this happen. 
Has the Attorney-General given any further consideration to the recommendations of the Manning Committee; if so, does he propose to initiate legislation in accordance with the Committee's recommendations. 
Does the Attorney-General intend to act on the recommendation that the law relating to cheques be dealt with in a separate Cheques Act; if so, will he advise the Senate when this will be done. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy President.  As I rise to speak for the first time in the Senate, I preface my remarks by thanking the  President  of the Senate and my Senate colleagues for the warm assistance I have received in my short period in the Senate. Also I congratulate other new honourable senators who have already made their maiden speeches. Those who are yet to come, my warmest felicitations and fellow feelings, particularly at this moment. 
We are debating a very important document, the Budget, which sets the economic and social climate of this country, certainly for the next year and probably for a much longer time to come. I open my speech by quoting, lamentably, from a speech made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  last weekend in which he commented on the Budget. He stated: 
I have long held the view that the Budget is not just an economic document but a declaration of the Government 's view of the kind of society we want and the kind of people we are. That is what our Budget was about. Nothing we have done has so clearly demonstrated, so clearly symbolised, this Government's philosophy and concerns, its priorities and aspirations. 
I suggest to you,  Mr Deputy President  and fellow senators, that this Budget is condemned in the words of the Prime Minister. 
Three very important reflections can be made on this Budget. It will regulate the life style of Australians in the foreseeable future. It shows the Government's assessment of the nature of our society. It is a reflection of the political philosophy of this Government. I suggest that, for all the fine words we have heard from the other side, the truth of the Budget lies under its surface. My leader tonight and my leader in the other place last night revealed some of these truths. It is important that these truths be emphasised and brought forward to the Australian people because in the last 20 months we have had many instances of the Australian Labor Party going to the people and claiming many grand and fine things, but underneath it all the truth lurks. This is not what they talk about. 
We live in a young country, a country with a very young average age; and we live in a unique country. This Budget will affect Australia's expectations for some time to come, as it affects them almost immediately. Never in my recollection and never during my participation in politics in Australia- and it has spread over some years now- can I recall such anticipation of a Budget. For weeks beforehand, indeed months beforehand, there was a very keen public debate on what might or might not be in the Budget. Not with any great sense of glee or looking forward but with a sense of foreboding, because Australians sensed that their way of life was threatened, that their expectations were at risk. 
We have always prided ourselves in this country, regardless of our actual economic standards as we have progressed, on an independence of spirit within the national and economic framework. In the postwar years we have seen in this country great economic growth in which all citizens have participated. At the same time, the Australian has been a tolerant person who has wanted to see social justice. He has a good strong social conscience, and as our economy has grown, as our nation has grown, so we have been able to give greater effect to our social conscience. We have several standards supposed in the Budget. We have several new aspirations, I believe, in this country now. 
In recent times we have seen the enormous growth of our large cities at the expense of the country areas. We have seen the enormous growth of ratio of population in our cities to ratio of population in the country. This has been to some extent inevitable, but I think Australians now aspire to a way of life with a realisation of the benefits of the smaller community. I would like to refer to a section in the Appropriation Bill (No. 1). On page 1338 of Hansard for the House of Representatives of 17 September this statement appears: 
The assistance to be provided in 1974-75 carries forward in a very substantial way the Government's major initiatives to redirect over the longer term the distribution of employment opportunities and hence of population. The growth centres program aims to raise the amenity of urban life by encouraging the rapid development of a small number of regional growth centres to provide viable alternatives to the existing metropolitan centres . . . 
This issue of decentralisation and diversion of resources for the purpose of building up these smaller metropolitan centres is one that is very important to me as a senator from Queensland. Queensland has long prided itself on being the most decentralised State of all the States of Australia. We have long prided ourselves on the fact that the proportion of our total population which resides in our capital city is the smallest as compared with capital city population against total State population in all the other States of Australia. But we have learnt some very strong and some very important lessons along the way, and it appears that the people of Queensland and the people of Australia are about to suffer in the same way while this Government learns the same lessons. 
It is only 3 years since the drought broke in Queensland. Before that we had a 16-year drought in which our primary industries suffered. 
Many struggled on valiantly with government assistance, or without it in some instances. But it is not the issue of the actual primary producer to which I wish to refer. The fact is that when the primary producer suffered, as he did over an extensive period during that extraordinary drought in Queensland, the people in our provincial cities learnt the cost of a depressed rural sector. They learnt that the welfare of those provincial cities, the welfare of the individual, the welfare of the whole State and ultimately, because we are part of the Australian nation, the collective welfare of the Australian nation, are inextricably bound up with the welfare of the rural sector. We are seeing a significant decline throughout the provincial cities in Queensland today in terms of rising umemployment and the expectations of life in those cities. 
I note in a Press release put out by the Minister for Labor and Immigration today that a large number of Queensland's provincial cities are among those listed for special assistance because of their high rates of unemployment. The only notable provincial cities which were not listed were Mount Isa, Rockhampton and Gladstone. All the other provincial cities from Cairns down to the Gold Coast and inland too were listed. There is a lesson in this for the Australian Government, and it would do well to take heed. It would do well to back off from its policy of victimising the rural producer, of trying to stir feeling in the urban centres against those who live in the country. It is totally unjust, and it is a disastrous policy. 
I referred earlier to the fact that I believe that Australians believe in social fairness and social justice, that they are basically a tolerant nation, but over the last 20 months, and particularly latterly, we have seen an alarming divisiveness grow in our society. All of us, of all political shades represented in this Parliament, must be alarmed at the growth of militancy throughout the Australian community. We must all deplore it and we must all fear the consequences if it is allowed to get out of hand. But it is not surprising, because this Government has chosen to ignore the fact that we have sections which are interdependent. With our highest ever standard of education in this country, the Government has chosen to play on what it believes to be a great mass ignorance and to play on lower elements in human nature. In talking blithely about the Bentleys and the Mercedes that are owned by some rural producers- a bland smear with no attempt to show the real truth of the income and the standard of living of all rural producers- it has taken the outstanding few and tried to extend the generalisation to all. It has done so in other areas. I would suggest that if the Labor Party would like to introduce a national health scheme it could do it in more palatable ways than by smearing the medical profession and the private enterprise sections of our medical system. Why has it been necessary for doctors to feel that their backs are against the wall? Why has it been necessary to point to the few individuals deserving of criticism who are inevitable in the medical profession and try to tar all within that profession with the same brush? If the Government's policy on national health is a good one, let it state its merits and let it stand up to public criticism and public debate. Why has it been necessary to use the tag 'multinationals' as a way of invoking national fear in the matter of development of certain parts of our industry? Why is it necessary to try to play on this great xenophobia which apparently the Government believes exists in our society to try to turn the tide of public opinion by this version of our economic development and expansion? Why has it been necessary- and I speak very strongly as a Queenslander on this one- to slur the nursing homes? I can think of no area where it is more important that people be motivated to work. If the motivation be one of profit then that is quite an acceptable motive in my book, if the standards of the nursing home are good and if the costs are reasonable. I cannot think of anybody who needs the care of motivated people more than the elderly; I can think of no group for which it is more important that people should wish to work than in that area. I think it would be lamentable if our old people were to be institutionalisedand there is a real threat there. In Queensland at the moment our private nursing homes are virtually under siege from the Federal Government. It refuses to give adequate subsidies; it refuses to give adequate support to the patients. Each week more and more nursing homes are closing down. We have already lost a couple of hundred beds and there are a large number of elderly people wanting access to nursing homes who cannot get it, and it is no wonder. Nobody is going to risk their money in that area when the Government will not allow the sort of financial support which makes it even within the realms of possibility for these homes to exist. 
I would like to refer briefly to a statement made in this context by  Senator McLaren.  In the whole education debate there probably is no section which has been more unjustifiably slurred than that of independent schools.  Senator McLaren  referred to 'silvertails' whom, he said, the Opposition claimed to defend. I reject entirely that claim. He took just a few schools, just a few people, and hoped that would prove something to the public at large. Our independent school system has contributed many great things to the educational system of this country and I hope it continues to do so. The Government apparently lives under the delusion that there is a very large number of very wealthy people in this country and they are the ones who use private facilities. Nothing could be further from the truth. Many parents work very hard and in many cases mothers go to work, so that their children can experience the benefits of the independent school system, not out of any sense of snobbishness or aloofness but because in some cases independent schools can offer something, in terms of their own enterprise that the State systems cannot offer because it does not choose to offer. This is in tune with the statements of the Prime Minister. I quote again from his speech last Saturday: 
We have heard the expected outcry from the Opposition, the predictable condemnation from the wealthy, the privileged, the richest private schools, the stockbrokers, the speculators, the vested interests. 
Whatever those vested interests may be, I do not know. It is an intriguing phrase but I do not want to dwell on it. I want to draw attention to terms and words like 'wealthy', 'privileged', 'richest private schools' and so on- those terms which are used so blithely and easily and pitted against any criticism of the Government. The facts, of course, are otherwise. 
Briefly I must say, as a Queenslander, that while I welcome assistance to Aborigines I cannot think of anything more frightening or more lamentable than the events of the last few days in relation to statements by the Federal Government as to its intentions towards the Queensland Government on the issue of Aborigines. If the Government is sincere, if these great funds that it is providing in the Budget are well intentioned, it should proceed with a little more caution in what is a very vexed area. Perhaps the Government is badly advised. Perhaps the information it receives in this area is insubstantial. But certainly we cannot tolerate the pitting of white against white and black against white in this society. This is a time bomb for this society which we all must dread. Sincere advances we would all welcome. 
The Government talks much about its ideals of social justice. Again this was a term that  Senator McLaren  used a little while ago. There appears to be some difference between socialism and social justice at the moment. The Prime Minister- I again quote from last Saturday's speech- forecast that the alternatives to the sort of Budget brought in last week were: 
. massive unemployment, bankrupt businesses, idle factories, indiscriminate monetary restrictions. 
That is a fair description of the economic policies under which this country is currently suffering and will continue to suffer in the near future. 
How are the fine words about social justice justified by the imposition of the capital gains tax? We did not hear any details from the Australian Labor Party in the 1972 and 1974 election campaigns about the imposition of its capital gains tax. I believe the Government has struck at a group at which it can ill afford to strike. While it talks about the 'wealthy' and the 'silvertails' it forgets that many people in Australia, as part of the Australian way of life, aim and hope to hold assets, basic assets. As part of their independent Australian nature they hope to provide for themselves. Few people, if they have control over it, have an ambition to retire on the old age pension. We welcome that the old age pension is there for those who are disadvantaged but most people would prefer to fend for themselves. Yet those who would attempt to do so through the acquisition of assets, those who would attempt to set their goals- the young are very noticeable in this respect- have had a setback. It becomes even more difficult for all individuals in the society to plan and to decide how they will direct their individual destinies- to decide what their destinies may be or could be- and it is even harder for the young, because they are the ones who are subject to such things as moving around the countryside and having to sell assets because of unforeseeable circumstances. These are the individuals who will really suffer under that capital gains tax. 
When the Australian Labor Party entered the 1972 and 1974 Federal elections and talked about social justice it did not reveal the hidden realities that the Australian people would have to contribute. It did not say that the Australian people would have to contribute a 95 per cent increase in income tax over the first 2 Budgets introduced by an ALP Government. It did not say that because it knew very well that if it went into an election campaign espousing that sort of policy it would lose. The prospect of vastly increased income tax was one factor which held Labor out of government for so long, yet it has blithely reaped in the extra income tax with no beg-your-pardons to anybody, and certainly with no advance explanation. 
Where does this 'super tax', this 'unearned incomes' tax, fit into the Government's notion of social justice? How will it apply to those who have tried to provide for themselves, to provide for their independence in their old age, and those who are contributing through the buying of shares to the buying back of the Australian farm? How does it apply to those people? What of those of us- this applies to most Australian people- who have savings bank accounts and building society accounts? Was the Government so badly advised, was it so hooked on its own propaganda, that it believed that the only people earning income from these sources were the silvertails? Where is that massive group of silvertails which holds all those savings bank accounts and building society accounts, that massive group of silvertails which provides rental accommodation for residents in Australia? 
Where in the ALP's speeches was there a proud statement that the Government was going to take its first possible opportunity to transfer resources from the private sector to the public sector? We did not hear a statement like that in the election campaigns. Now we have a bland and blithe statement in the Budget. 
There is one resource that this Government is being extremely wasteful of with all its talk about resources strategies and that is the human resource of this country- the individual resources of enterprise, drive, initiative and a wish for independence. 
The private enterprise system has served this country well. Do not let it be said or thought for one moment,  Mr Deputy President,  that I would lay myself open to the easy charge which comes back, on the subject of private enterprise, of laissez faire economics. That went from Australia a long time ago. Those of us who want to see the preservation of the private enterprise system want to see it prosper but prosper in a way which is acceptable to society. We want to see the best of the private enterprise system prosper. It is not in my interest or the interest of my colleagues or of my Party, that the worst individuals that can emerge in the private enterprise system should prosper. But the worst aspects are not just germane to private enterprise. They are human nature aspects and they emerge just as readily through the public sector. 
The basis of the drive of our economy in this country- the real drive- is the small businessman, the small entrepreneur, and, of course, the farmer and the professional man. Who are these small businessmen who are going bankrupt in ever increasing numbers at an ever increasing rate- these bankrupt businesses to which the Prime Minister referred? Are they silvertails? Of course not. In most cases the small businessman is a real entrepreneur. Very few of them start in life with any natural advantages in terms of money. Many of them have been tradesmen who have worked hard, and have taken the risk of going into their own business in order to give themselves and their families the opportunity of greater security in the future, and greater opportunity to express their individual talents in thenown way as self-employed people. What is it that is so despicable about being a self-employed person in this society that they have to go to the wall in ever-increasing numbers as is happening at the moment? The strong economic dose that we have in this Budget, as we had in the last Budget, must militate far more strongly against those individuals than it does against the very large enterprises. 
What of the farmer, the man who has struggled, the person who has been prepared to battle all sorts of natural odds in his attempt to prosper and to contribute in his own way? I mentioned earlier the particular disabilities that the Queensland farmer suffered until a very few years ago. It appears that the spirit of the farmer is not easily dampened because so many of them hold on. But there is abroad today, affecting the morale of the small businessman and the primary producer, a sense of despondency- a despondency that began well before the Budget and certainly has followed from it. There is a feeling of 'What have we done? Why is it that we who want to earn an honest living, who are prepared to work very hard for very long hours, must be discriminated against and picked for special economic penalties?' 
Finally, we heard a philosophy of the Government in the Budget Speech. There has been much discussion in recent years about public attitude towards government and whether the democratic system is working. Much attention has focused on the attitudes of the vocal sections of youth and their attitudes towards government and, some would claim, their disillusionment with it. I believe that the Australian relishes easy access to government when he feels that he needs it. Certainly the young people of this country must hope for a government system which is made to work better. In our federal system, with our Federal, State and local governments, there is that potential. The imposition of a centralised system of government will not enhance that potential. 
Since I have been a member of the Senate I have heard it said many times- I have not attempted to count them- on the other side that we on this side should be reminded that we did not win the 1972 and 1974 Federal elections. I never doubted that we lost the 1972 and 1974 Federal elections. But I think the Federal Labor Government needs to be reminded that the Australian Labor Party did not win the State Government election in Queensland in May 1972. However it attempts to manipulate the figures, it did not get a majority of votes in that State. It did not win the Victorian State election in May 1973. It did not win the New South Wales State election in November 1973. Indeed neither did it win the Western Australian state election in March 1974. A Federal government does have certain rights under the Constitution. It does have the right to take certain initiatives and to operate in certain areas. But it does not have the right through the back door, through the top door or whatever it may be, of usurping the responsibilities and the powers of the governments in those States in which it has not succeeded in gaining power. There has been all manner of intrusion into State responsibilities. 
This country which has been proud of the highest rate of home ownership in the world has achieved that through the stimulus of policies at both Federal and State levels. But those States in which home ownership is considered still to be a high priority- the States which I have mentionedare finding, because of their philosophies, that to get Federal funds to carry out their normal programs they are having to consent to a higher and higher proportion of that money being used for rental homes. Recently there was the spectacle in relation to roads grants. The Federal Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  wanted to control every little detail of the rights of every little local authority in what it was attempting to do for its roads. We have heard much talk about increased expenditure to the States- and much double talk with it. We have had a concealment of the division of those funds compared with the previous division. When the State Governments have said that they will not implement Australian Labor Party policies via the instruments of the State Governments, the Federal Government turns and points the finger of scorn and says: 'That is a State Government which does not care'. I say to those people who are active at all levels of government and are attempting to diversify power and to keep power closer to the individuals of this country: 'All power'. 
Therefore, I have much pleasure in recommending to the Senate the amendment moved by  Senator Withers. 
I present the following petition from 45 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: whereas the Government of the United Kingdom, United States of America, Canada and many European countries have not recognised the unlawful annexation of the Baltic States- Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia by the Soviet Union, the Prime Minister of Australia has authorised the de jure recognition of this annexation. 
According to the Charter of the United Nations, the Baltic States are entitled to independence and their people to selfdetermination. 
We beg that such de jure recognition be disallowed. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question, addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction, refers to a recent statement by the Minister for Housing and Construction that the Federal Government has purchased 271/2 hectares of land near Brisbane which will provide approximately 250 building sites for the erection of homes under the defence service homes scheme. Has the Federal Government undertaken to pay rates to the Redlands Shire Council on this land or does it intend to take advantage of its right not to pay local authority rates for land it owns? If it has not undertaken to pay normal property rates, will the Minister give an assurance that it will make an exgratia payment to the Redlands Shire Council so that the burden of shire maintenance of the land does not have to be met by ordinary ratepayers of the Redlands Shire? 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: If, as reported today, he considers the United Nations a madhouse and the duties of being President of the United Nations merely a tremendous grind of interminable meetings and speeches which just go on and on, what are his motives for seeking the presidency of such an organisation? 
I present the following petition from 1 16 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable, the  President  and members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, in modern society which accepts divorce, the law of divorce should be fair to both parties. However, we are very concerned about proposals to alter the law in the Family Law Bill 1974. 
The Family Law Bill, 1974 would fundamentally change the institution of marriage itself; that is all existing and future marriages. 
The said Bill does not protect the legal and social rights of women and children in the family. 
3 ) The said Bill does not provide for either the training of suitable counsellors who can assist in conciliation procedures or for suitable initiatives to be taken prior to the breakdown of marriage. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this Bill be tabled for six months and that all sections of the community be consulted on marriage, the family and the long term effects of such a Bill upon our Australian society. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-I present the following petition from 25 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable, the  President  and members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled: 
The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, in modern society which accepts divorce, the law of divorce should be fair to both parties. However, we are very concerned about proposals to alter the law in the Family Law Bill 1974. 
.  The Family Law Bill1974 would fundamentally change the institution of marriage itself; that is all existing and future marriages. 
The said Bill does not protect the legal and social rights of women and children in the family. 
The said Bill does not provide for either the training of suitable counsellors who can assist in conciliation procedures or for suitable initiatives to be taken prior to the breakdown of marriage. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this Bill be tabled for 6 months and that all sections of the community be consulted on marriage, the family and the long term effects of such a Bill upon our Australian society. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Agriculture, partly follows a statement which he made in reply to a question which was asked yesterday in the Senate on the subject of locust plagues. The Minister said that no. request had come forward to the Prime Minister in relation to the current outbreak of locusts in Queensland. I ask the Minister: Has such a request now been received by the Prime Minister? Does he know whether the request contained the information that the estimated value of crops currently at risk in Queensland is $65m? Has the Minister seen reports that swarms of spur-throated locusts, a species not currently eligible for extermination by the Federal Government, are now damaging wheat crops in northern New South Wales and that these swarms have moved south from Queensland? Since it is now clear that significant numbers of spur-throated locusts are prepared to cross the Queensland border in order to consume New South Wales wheat, will the Federal Government acknowledge that this species is no longer the problem of only Queensland farmers and can be considered to meet the Government's criteria for a national problem? Will the Minister undertake to take whatever steps are necessary to revise the policy which presently restricts the Federal Government's assistance for combating locust plagues to only one of the 4 species of locusts existing in Australia, and specifically to revise the policy in relation to spur-throated migratory locusts? 
I  present the following petition from 1633 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Divorce is a Social and Medical Problem not a Legal Issue and be Relieved accordingly. 
All Family Matters must come out of the Legal System. 
There must be No Lawyers- No Courts- And Especially- No Judges. 
D.L.R A.'S Proposals must be considered for the New Divorce Laws. 
1 ) The persons themselves to record their own divorce at the place where Marriages are made. 
Guidelines to be established by Mediators (NonLawyers) to resolve difficulties particularly with children and property. 
Joint Custody and Mutual Financial Support of children where possible. 
Child Endowment to provide Financial Support of children when needed. 
Property disputes to be resolved as an ordinary Civil Matter. 
Adults not self supporting to be regarded as unemployed or on sickness benefits or pensions. 
Only the breach of Agreement should incur Legal Process. 
The motivation of lawyers in family matters is for profit only and their involvement has proved a disaster for the community since 1959. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 16 citizens of Australia. 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled: The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth- 
That, in modern society which accepts divorce, the law of divorce should be fair to both parties. However, we are very concerned about proposals to alter the law in the Family Law Bill 1974. 
The Family Law Bill, 1974 would fundamentally change the institution of marriage itself; that is all existing and future marriages. 
The said Bill does not protect the legal and social rights of women and children in the family. 
) The said Bill does not provide for either the training of suitable counsellors who can assist in conciliation procedures or for suitable initiatives to be taken prior to the breakdown of marriage. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this Bill be tabled for six months and that all sections of the community be consulted on marriage, the family and the long term effects of such a Bill upon our Australian society. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Does the Minister representing the Prime Minister recall that last year the Queensland Government submitted a proposal to the Commonwealth Government suggesting that, as the flood problems in Brisbane were so great and as the Brisbane City Council could not possibly meet the cost of overcoming these problems, an agreement be reached between the 3 levels of government to finance the works required? Will the Minister confirm that the Queensland Government's recommendation was that the Commonwealth Government should contribute 40 per cent of the cost, the Queensland Government 40 per cent, and the Brisbane City Council 20 per cent? Will he agree that this flood mitigation work is of the utmost importance because of the flooding which can be expected to take place in Brisbane during January and February next year? Will the Minister undertake that the Commonwealth Government will consider as quickly as possible the making of a direct grant of money to the Brisbane City Council to help alleviate these problems? 
-I do not wish to prolong this debate unduly but there are some points that I want to make about the amendment. I have already raised the matter of pensions for supporting fathers a couple of times in the Senate. It is a matter in which I am interested as a matter of simple justice and a matter which I think the Government would do well to look at clearly and carefully early in the piece. We in the Senate are able only to move an amendment expressing the Senate's opinion that the Government should consent to the incorporation of this provision for widowers and deserted husbands with dependent children. In the other place it was possible to move during the second reading debate of the Bill an amendment that the Government consent to the incorporation of this provision before the Bill was read a second time. Of course, in the Senate we cannot go that far. But that amendment was defeated in the House of Representatives. I think it was a great shame that it was. In his reply to the amendment the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  showed a very real lack of understanding of the basis of this appeal. 
The need for such a benefit for supporting fathers is very clear and very simple. It is not one which requires a great deal of elaboration. The simple fact is that, at the moment, a supporting father- that is, a father who is trying to raise children by himself without the assistance of a mate- raises his children under a special disability. He is not entitled to the sorts of pensions to which a woman in the same circumstances is entitled. 
It is estimated that at present something like 25,000 families and 50,000 children are affected. In terms of the overall scheme of the Australian family, in terms of the overall total population, both adult and child in Australia, that is not a large number. I suggest that the emphasis should be placed on the 50,000 children. The hardship caused to the father is readily apparent, but we should be very concerned about the hardship that is caused to the children. While this is a comparatively small need, it is nevertheless, in the case of individual children, a total need when they are in that position. 
The position that many fathers, who have to raise children on their own, are presently put into is that either they must go to work and almost compulsorily turn their children into latch-key children with virtually no choice because they get no special assistance for whatever costs they may incur in making arrangements for the children- I refer particularly to those costs which are necessarily incurred for the care of very young children- or they must put their children in the care of either their parents or elderly relatives, or they must institutionalise them. In any event, I would think, and I would imagine that everybody would agree with me, that the stable family life is the one we wish to see all Australian children enjoy, and I think putting the emphasis on the effect of this type of situation on this admittedly comparatively small number of children is what we should be concentrating on. 
There is, of course, special strain placed on the fathers in these circumstances. The strain is special only because the fathers in this position in Australia do not get the same sorts of benefits as do mothers in a comparable position. It is only very recently that this subject has been a matter of some real public debate in Australia. It is only recently that much attention has been paid to the fact that deserted fathers or widowers are in an invidious postition in Australia. But with the growth in the divorce rate, about which we hear plenty, particularly at the moment, the numbers are increasing. The reason that I am not satisfied with the sort of answer that the Minister gave in the House is that he referred to such things as special inquiries'. This must raise the question: Does the Minister have some intention or do his advisers have some intention of instituting some sort of assistance on a basis different from the assistance given to women? I would make a very strong plea for equal treatment under the circumstances. 
We have talked much in public and in the Senate today about equal treatment for men and women in Australia. I can think of no area in which there is a stronger case for totally equal treatment than there is in this one. I am in fact sorry, in a way, that there has been specially privileged treatment given to women in this area in the past. I do not think it has done the women of Australia any good to have this special privilege in the area of widows pensions because it makes it look as though it is a problem germane only to women in Australia instead of what it truly is, namely a family problem in Australia. I make a strong plea to the Government that, in these inquiries and considerations that it appears to be undertaking, it look at just the simple facts, and that is that we have a family situation in which there is only one parent. There may be special mitigating circumstances in the case of women in terms of their earning capacity. I think in the case of a man who wishes to stay at home to care for his children full time or who wishes to take a part-time job and receive a part-time pension, there should be no difference made between him, in that reduced earning capacity, and women who have been in that capacity traditionally for a long time in Australia. 
We have heard a lot of interjections and a lot of nonsense during this debate this evening. We have been asked whose fault it is and why this legislation was not introduced sooner. It is a pity that there have not been more speakers from the other side because I am sure that sooner or later we would have had the statement: 'Well, you had 23 years. What did you do about it?' I would like to point out to the Senate that that statement is now 2 years out of date. I was only 7 years old 25 years ago- my age is no secret, of course- and I admit I was then doing absolutely nothing about the matter of pensions in Australia. But I do not believe that I should now be held responsible, or that those who are new to this place, or that those who have now come to a new realisation of the situation, should be held responsible for an accusation which is now becoming several years out of date. It was, in fact, the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  who was responsible for bringing the special plight of the deserted father or the widower to the attention of the Australian public Australia-wide. Up until that stage nobody had stated the situation publicly. 
He was the one who brought it to the attention of the Australian people, Australia- wide. I certainly do not think he was the first one who was aware of the situation. Others may have been. But the honourable senator cannot in any way dispute the fact that  Mr Cameron  had a very large hand in raising the public awareness and starting the public debate, which was so important, on this particular matter. 
A couple of weeks ago I asked a question in the Senate in relation to this matter at that time. I would like to give a brief summary of the situation. At approximately the time of the joint sitting of both Houses of Parliament- in July and August of the previous sessional period- many of us received representations from the Supporting Fathers Association. They wanted to know whether we would agree to supporting fathers having the same pension entitlement as is available to single supporting mothers, widows or deserted wives at present. That group was particularly active during the week of the joint sitting. The following week, the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  made a highly misleading statement to the Press. The Minister, while he had undoubtedly taken into account the fact that the House of Representatives was no longer sitting, had apparently overlooked the fact that the Senate was sitting at a time when there was a fairly high awareness of this matter amongst senators because of these representations that had been made to us by the representatives of the Supporting Fathers Association. The Minister for Social Security made a statement which was highly misleading, but there was an opportunity to ask a question about it in the Senate. 
I was of the understanding- I thought it was a fairly clear understanding- that no pensions were available for Australian family men in this situation. I checked with the Department of Social Security in Brisbane. I was told very clearly the circumstances under which a pension or support is available to the supporting father in Australia. It was spelled out to me quite specifically. I thereupon asked a question in the week following the joint sitting of the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security in the Senate  (Senator Wheeldon).  I put it to him in the question that the benefits are normally available at present only for short periods to the father of an ill pre-school-aged child, and then only if it is not possible to arrange any other form of care for the child, such care being entirely at his own cost. I asked him whether it was true that fathers of children suffering chronic or long-term illness could obtain extended periods of payment of this benefit only in very special circumstances. 
I was informed by the Department of Social Security in Queensland- I am sure I have breached no confidence because the information has been repeated since then- that in recent years there have actually been only a couple of such applications from Queensland approved. The applications had to come to the Director General of Social Security in Canberra. Decisions were made at a distance, while individuals at the Department of Social Security in Queensland were certainly aware of the problem because they faced the problem- they literally came face to face with the men who were in this invidious position- and there was virtually no support available. Under those circumstances the Minister's statement that there was support available along the lines of benefits payable under the provisions for unemployment or sickness benefits was highly misleading. He certainly was not backed up by the information given by his own Department. 
Recently  Senator Wheeldon,  who represents the Minister for Social Security, was kind enough to give me a reply to my question. In his reply he told me that the Minister for Social Security had advised him that a special benefit may be paid to a person who, under these circumstances, because of age, physical or mental disability or domestic circumstances, is unable to earn a sufficient livelihood for himself or herself and his or her dependants. I would suggest that the criteria for the payment of benefit- age, physical or mental disability- rules out persons who are bringing up children of their own in Australia. They are extreme circumstances and they are not any sort of defence. They certainly do not square with the earlier statement made by the Minister. 

 Senator Wheeldon went on to say that any supporting father suffering hardship as a result of having to remain at home from work to look after his children may qualify for special benefits. The facts are that those special benefits are very rarely given. If we average one a year then the supporting fathers can count themselves very lucky indeed. In fact, from the rest of the answer to my question it is clear that those benefits are available when the mother is temporarily absent. This was clear from the whole tone and the words of the rest of the answer that I was given. Reference was made particularly to the absence of the mother's care because the mother was in hospital or she was temporarily absent from the family. So, short term benefits are available. 
In fact, a supporting father who wishes to apply for the so-called special provisions on a long term basis, for unemployment or sickness benefits will find that long term benefits are not available because they are not available to him on special basis. If he applies for them under the unemployment provisions he comes under exactly the provisions which apply to anybody else who seeks unemployment benefits. That is, in the short term, he is expected to take a job if it is offered to him. So, that is really not a generous provision. I think that needs to be made clear. The Government should say: 'Yes, we are not making very many benefits available but we do think that the Senate's amendment is a good thing'. It is a pity that in the House of Representatives the Government did not take this action. 
The estimated cost is somewhere between $20m and $3 5m. The Minister's estimate is $35m. The Opposition does not believe that it would be quite that high for a number of reasons. It would not be expected, for example, that all fathers would claim the full amount because not all the children involved are fully dependent. Some children in the 16 to 21 age group would not be eligible and a means test also operates. The net cost should be actually much lower than $35m. 
It is very easy for the Government to answer by saying that the Opposition has been advocating the cutting of Government expenditure. Here we are putting forward a proposition for an increase of somewhere between $20m to $35m- on that much we can agree. The Opposition is saying is that we advocate the spending of Government money which is spent for a clear purpose. What the Opposition is concerned about at the moment is the Government moving into large areas of expenditure which we do not think are necessary; which we think can be adequately catered for by private enterprise; and which we think are unnecessarily overexpansionary at this stage. I would suggest to honourable senators that whatever the final figure actually is, be it the upper estimate of $35m or not, for the sake of the welfare of 50,000 Australian people it is money spent very much for a purpose. I have great pleasure in supporting  Senator Guilfoyle  's amendment. 
I present the following petition from 14 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that: 
Divorce is a social and medical problem not a legal issue and should be relieved accordingly; 
Irretrievable breakdown must be the only ground with a maximum of twelve months separation; 
When making property settlements the court must take into account the direct and indirect financial and other contributions made to the acquisition, conservation or improvement of the property by the parties in the capacity of homemaker, parent or otherwise; 
There must be urgent reform and the Family Law Bill must be presented to Parliament forthwith and accepted without further delay, 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present 3 petitions, identical in wording, from 20, 20 and 40 citizens of the Commonwealth respectively, in the following terms: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth, by this our humble petition respectfully showeth: 
That the existing matrimonial laws in Australia are archaic, unrealistic, and cruel and so completely at variance with modern thought as to require their immediate repeal. 
That there is such urgent need for reform that there must be no delay in presenting the Family Law Bill 1974 to Parliament for debate. 
That the ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage be the sole ground for divorce with proof of this determined by a maximum of twelve months separation. 
That dissolution of marriage must come out of the legal system with people resolving their family matters between themselves according to guidelines and with assistance of a mediator. Family Courts only to be used for enforcement as a last resort. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received. 
I thank you for your introduction,  Mr President.  I think I will have the distinction of being the only  speaker  to be welcomed twice as a maiden  speaker  in the one session. When I made my maiden speech you,  Mr President,  were not in the Chair for unavoidable reasons, so I was not able to pay you the courtesy of congratulating you on your election to the position of  President  and to say that I look forward to learning my trade as a senator under your Presidency. I feel very strongly that I should speak to the motion for the second reading of this Bill. Much debate is yet to take place at the Committee stage but there are a number of points that I would like to make generally as to how this Bill affects or will affect the women of the community. I am moved to do so particularly as statements which have been made so far do show some ignorance of the needs of the situation. I would like to say initially that I do not intend to support the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. I appreciate the great sincerity with which he moved it and I appreciate his reasons. However, I think that the grounds are not substantial on this occasion to move for any sort of deferral and certainly not for the deferral that the honourable senator requested. It would mean a deferral of at least 4 months. From those who have been supporting the deferral there is an indication that they wish to see quite substantial changes to this Bill, or they believe that there are outside groups who want to see quite substantial changes made. We run the risk of an endless process so that whenever a substantial change is brought forward as a result of a proposed amendment to the Bill or a report on the Bill it will be deferred yet again. 
The whole question of divorce in Australia has had quite an exhaustive public debate for some years. Certainly senators and very many members of the public know the need for change and they wish to see that change come about. I would not on this ground support a hasty move on the Bill but I think the report we have received from the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs is excellent. It assisted me, a senator encountering the Family Law Bill for the first time, enormously in my appreciation of the problems, of the need for change, and of the potential of this Bill. I will agree that there are some things left out of it. I will agree that in some ways it cannot truly be called a Family Law Bill. However, it does make some very positive and worthwhile moves in the area of divorce law in Australia. I believe the need is so great that we should proceed with the business of passing good divorce laws. 
It is a little futile to talk about the points of view of groups. The churches themselves are not unanimous. Different churches have taken different stances on different aspects of the measure. There are, of course, other pressure groups also working within the community. I am a little concerned at some of the pressure that has been put on the women of the community in relation to this Bill. I have had many approaches from women who have expressed their concern, not necessarily for their own cases, but for what they believe to be the potential of this Bill and its possible effect on women in Australian society. I believe that the people who have approached me have been grossly misinformed about the actual content and intent of the Bill but their alarm was genuine. It is necessary that we debate the measure cleanly. Not all the debate that has taken place in the public arena has been clean or fair. I think the lead-up to the Bill has been fair. I think the presentation of the Bill has been fair. I believe that we and the public are equipped to proceed with this Bill, so far as it goes. 
I will address myself very briefly to the matter of grounds. I welcome the elimination of the guilt notion in divorce. There is much concentration on the fact that because we have taken away the guilt notion one partner to a marriage can unilaterally break that marriage, that that partner can take action which will end the marriage against the wishes of the other party. Many personal contracts are undertaken between individuals in our society and between men and women which are voluntarily broken. The stage before marriage is the formal engagement stage. It is a fact that individuals at that stage can break the engagement. It can be broken unilaterally very much against the wishes of the other party. The reason that that situation is different from the question of breaking or dissolving a marriage, that the latter is so much more emotional, is because there is the matter of justice in the area of property, joint property which has been earned through joint effort which must be justly and reasonably settled and because, crucially, it is highly likely that the marriage will include a giving birth to children and the welfare of the children of the marriage must be paramount. With that substantial difference those are the areas, I believe, on which we should concentrate. 
I am not totally persuaded by religious argument. Speaking personally, I have had a lot of pressure put on me by religious groups with the notion that marriage once undertaken is a permanent contract. I have never yet had sufficiently explained to me the logic behind the situation when 2 parties enter into this contract and one party breaks it, or never attempts fairly to keep it according to all the conditions that they undertake when they go through a religious marriage. It is not just an agreement to live together as man and wife. It is not just an agreement to be legally in the state of marriage. It is an agreement that covers very many aspects of human conduct in marriage. I cannot understand why when one of the parties breaks those aspects of the contract the other party is obliged to maintain them unilaterally. I think that is a matter for individuals. 
Nevertheless, we must respect the religious beliefs and religious scruples of very many sincere people in our community. For that reason I hope that at the Committee stage the section of the Bill which requires or appears to require a move towards actual divorce before a proper settlement can be made in the matter of support and property will be amended. It is a poor one. We should leave the way open for those who will recognise that they are living together in the state of marriage and as it is a very poor state and a sham, continuation of that state is bad for their children and bad for them as individuals. They may agree to live apart but they may have strong personal and religious reasons for not wishing to proceed to divorce. Those people should not be forced to proceed to divorce. 
In the matter of guilt I think it is very important that a mutual termination of marriage with dignity be possible. I think there is a greater chance of termination with dignity if there is not a guilt basis. At present where there is a requirement to prove guilt there is an altogether unhealthy interest in the community as to the grounds on which individuals are divorced, who divorced whom, who was the defaulting party, when we all know in fact that in a very large percentage of cases the actual grounds used in the divorce court were not the cause of the breakdown of the marriage. More often they are symptoms of the breakdown of the marriage but we force members of our society to go through a wholly undignified and in many cases extremely degrading process in order to terminate a relationship which has left in it no potential for good for them, for their children or for the community. 
The ground has also been used as a bargaining point by parties to marriage in the matters of maintenance, property and custody. This has been strongly to the detriment of children.  Mr President,  I wish to speak at quite some further length on the effects of this aspect on children and on the potential effects of this Bill on the status of women in our society, as a reflection of their status and on just how we can hope through a Bill which deals with personal relationships to come to a fair law which will enable reality to be reflected and will enable people to live believing that they have been justly treated, knowing that they have behind them what is regarded as a social failure but also knowing that they at least have an equal chance of living a decent life. However, I understand that this debate is scheduled to be adjourned at 1 1 o'clock this evening. May I proceed,  Mr President? 
When the debate on this Bill is resumed, presumably on the next day of sitting or soon thereafter, I hope to be able to continue my speech. In that case I do not wish to pursue this matter and thereby cause the debate in the Senate tonight to run any longer than it has to. I seek leave of the Senate to continue my remarks when the debate is resumed. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I present the following petition from 32 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable, the  President  and members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, in modern society which accepts divorce, the law of divorce should be fair to both parties. However, we are very concerned about proposals to alter the law in the Family Law Sill 1974. 
The Family Law Bill, 1974 would fundamentally change the institution of marriage itself; that is all existing and future marriages. 
The said Bill does not protect the legal and social rights of women and children in the family. 
The said Bill does not provide for either the training of suitable counsellors who can assist in conciliation procedures or for suitable initiatives to be taken prior to the breakdown of marriage. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this Bill be tabled for six months and that all sections of the community be consulted on marriage, the family and the long term effects of such a Bill upon our Australian society. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture and I refer to statements made by him and by the Minister for Minerals and Energy the day before yesterday on the development of the phosphate deposits in 
Queensland. I would like to ask the Minister: Has a cost-benefit analysis been made of the development of the deposits at Lady Jane, Lady Annie and Duchess? Does this cost-benefit analysis include the cost of transportation? Will the cost-benefit analysis be made available? Can he tell us whether he has an estimate for the price of phosphate from these sources so that some comparison can be made with the potential price of phosphate on overseas markets next year? Will there actually be a price benefit for the Australian farmer or is it just a case of the price of overseas phosphate having increased to the point where it has now become economic to develop the deposits we have known about in Queensland for some time? On the subject of the cost of transport, I notice - 
I rise to speak briefly on the subject of locusts. On 2 occasions in this Senate I have asked questions of the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  on the subject of aid to the States to combat the locust plague. The answer generally has been that the Australian Agricultural Council decided, in its wisdom, that the money that was available would be used to combat one particular species of locust and that the Federal Government could do nothing about that; and furthermore that the Australian Government by providing the assistance of the Army had already contributed some aid to Queensland to combat the locust plague. 
I wish to draw to the attention of the Senate the problem as it exists in Queensland, and as I believe it is extending to other States, in respect of 2 types of locusts. These are the spur-throated locust and the migratory locust. For some reason it always affords certain senators some amusement when we start to talk about the spurthroated locust and the migratory locust. I must assure the Senate most earnestly that these locusts are affording wheat farmers no amusement at all. There is at present a very pedantic distinction drawn as to which types of locusts should attract aid from the Federal coffers as well as the State coffers. 
The general situation in Queensland is that the spur-throated locust has been a threat in southern Queensland and is now also a threat in New South Wales. The migratory locust has been a big threat in central Queensland. The plagues of these different species have generally occurred at different times of the year. At this time of the year the spur-throated locust is at its worst, and in the early months of the year- the summer season- the migratory locust in central Queensland goes into its pattern of destruction. 
I asked a question of the Minister about this matter on 17 October pointing out to him that the spur-throated locust was not now just a major problem in Queensland alone; it had also become a major problem in New South Wales. In reply to the question he said that the Federal Government would give some consideration to extending aid to combat this kind of locust. Since then a new threat has developed in Queensland. As a result of extraordinary winds, very large swarms of the spur-throated locust have been blown into central Queensland. This type of locust is now threatening crops in central Queensland as well as crops in southern Queensland and northern New South Wales. The grain farmers in central Queensland who now have this additional problem of the spurthroated locust know that they have yet to face the problems that will be upon them with the expected migratory locust plague early next year. 
The decision of the Australian Agricultural Council was that only the species called the Australian Plague Locust would attract aid. I would like to read to the Senate a copy of a telegram on this subject which was sent to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  by the Premier of Queensland  (Mr Bjelke-Petersen)  requesting a change in this policy. This is the message which was referred to by the Minister for Agriculture on 17 October. I think that the facts in this telegram are highly important. By virtue of the fact that since then the threat has developed even further than it was expected at that time shows just how urgent the problem is for the Australian grain grower. The Premier's message reads: 
The worst migratory and spur-throated locust plague in forty years continues to threaten the central and southern Queensland cropping area. The estimated value of summer crops at risk is approximately sixty-five million dollars. 
I interpose to say that with the phenomenon of the spur-throated locust being distributed more recently in large numbers in central Queensland, the estimated value of crops at risk is now up to $ 1 50m. The telegram continues: 
Spur-throated locust plagues are now attacking wheat crops in the St George district and moving south and east. 
Plagues are also located in northern New South Wales adjacent to the Balonne shire. Swarms cover an estimated two hundred thousand acres. Infestations are now present in  Murilla  Bendemere, Warroo, Bungil, Tara and  Waggamba  shires. All summer crop plantings are threatened and new generations must be attacked as they hatch. 
In addition the migratory locust threat also develops. Egg beds and hatchings are numerous in the Taroom, Bungil, Booringa and Warroo shires. Migratory locusts pose the most serious threat. It is expected that four generations will build up and move south and east. 
These are the ones that have traditionally been a problem in central Queensland. The telegram continues: 
The last generation population build up would coincide with late summer crops in 1974-75 season. The pest can best be tackled in the early  nymphal  band situation given sufficient manpower, spray facilities, chemicals and finance. In addition, migratory locusts again threaten areas of central Queensland with generation multiplication problems of at least the same magnitude as last season expected. 
I cannot accept that the variety of the species should be the factor which determines the question of Commonwealth Government financial assistance. I would expect that the prime consideration should be necessity to ensure that crops are protected from pests of this nature which can result only in economic hardship to those primary producers so affected. 
A locust control co-ordinating committee has been set up at Roma to attack the problem near south western region of the state. The organisation is considered adequate for central Queensland districts. 
In other words, the organisation is there to attack the problem if the finance is forthcoming. The telegram goes on: 
Insofar as financial assistance is concerned graingrowers are contributing to a fund and my Government is contributing with funds and staff. Local authorities are also participating. 
As an indication of the magnitude of the problem it is estimated that total expenditure to control the menace could reach two million dollars or three per cent of the gross value of summer crops. Additional state funds are just not available on this scale. 
To protect crops in Queensland and affected areas in New South Wales I would therefore ask your Government to give immediate tangible recognition to the problem by way of substantial financial assistance towards the campaign against the locust plague. 
In statements that have been made on this matteras I have said, to date I have had the opportunity only to ask questions not actually to speak on this- there have been fairly strong implications that the Queensland State Government was not playing its role in this. In fact, in the last financial year the Queensland Government spent more than $500,000 of its own money. There was also a very substantial contribution from the growers themselves in various ways. Before the problem unexpectedly expanded enormously it was estimated that $2m would be required to combat the locusts which makes this, I think, something of national importance. 
Some assistance was given last year by the Australian Army but I think the public has been misled about just what was involved. As I under.tand it, the Australian Government made available to the grain growers of central Queensland or to the State Government certain Army personnel and equipment on the condition that the State Government, or whoever, should pay the cost of relocating the Army personnel and supporting them while they were in the area. The people who were concerned about the plaguethe State Government and the local producersalso had to provide all the insecticides and all the other equipment necessary for aerial spraying. The State Government and the growers have incurred enormous expenses. While undoubtedly they are very grateful to the Army for providing the manpower which meant they did not have to seek additional men who could not be found at the time and also for providing the equipment, in a rather limited sense one must admit, nevertheless it was not an overly generous gesture. 
I think the time is ripe now for us to look at this thing fairly. The fact is that the Government has no compunction at all about telling Queensland how it should attend to all sorts of things like health and roads. In Queensland we are expecting a lot of gratuitous advice from the Prime Minister over the next few weekends leading up to our State election. This Federal Government has had no compunction at all in determining these enormously important areas and in determining where the hospitals will go, where the roads will go and what the priorities are even though they may not be the priorities of Queenslanders. Given that, I suggest that it is just a little hypocritical for the Government to say that locusts are a State problem, that we have State boundaries and the State Government should therefore bear the whole burden. It is very nice to be able to decide where popular things like hospitals should go and to be able to opt out of the unpopular things like killing locusts of whatever species. 
I plead with the Government to consider, in the terms the Minister has indicated he would in his answer to my latest question on this matter, very seriously and very urgently this appeal from Queensland for assistance to combat these other types of locusts. The Minister has said, I think on every occasion, that the decision to confine the aid that was made available last year to combat the Australian plague locust was a decision ofthe Australian Agricultural Council. I must say as plainly as I can to the Minister that he knows very well that the Federal Government has a very large influence on the decisions that are made by the Australian Agricultural Council. If the Federal Government wishes to give money for this purpose it can give it regardless of the decisions of the Australian Agricultural Council. It can indeed put very heavy pressure on the Australian Agricultural Council to that end, if it so chooses. State government elections and State and Federal friction apart, we must remember that a large number of primary producers who have worked hard are threatened now by a natural phenomenon and must be assisted. We cannot just sit back and let these crops, which are immensely valuable to Australia and, we hear day after day, to the world with its present food shortage, go to waste while these petty little points are argued. I appeal to the Minister as strongly as I can to hasten the decision by the Federal Government to give assistance for the eradication of locusts wherever they are a major problem to primary producers. 
I  present the following petition from 63 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, in modern society which accepts divorce, the law of divorce should be fair to both parties. However, we are very concerned about proposals to alter the law in the Family Law Bill 1974. 
The Family Law Bill 1974 would fundamentally change the institution of marriage itself; that is all existing and future marriages. 
The said Bill does not protect the legal and social rights of women and children in the family. 
3 ) The said Bill does not provide for either the training of suitable counsellors who can assist in conciliation procedures or for suitable initiatives to be taken prior to the breakdown of marriage. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this Bill be tabled for six months and that all sections of the community be consulted on marriage, the family and the long term effects of such a Bill upon our Australian society. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I  present the following petition from 22 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We the undersigned Citizens of the Commonwealth, by this our humble petition respectfully showeth: 
That the existing matrimonial laws in Australia are archaic, unrealistic, and cruel and so completely at variance with modern thought as to require their immediate repeal. 
That there is such urgent need for reform that there must be no delay in presenting the Family Law Bill 1974 to Parliament for debate. 
That the ground of Irretrievable Breakdown of Marriage be the sole ground for divorce with proof of this determined by a maximum of twelve months separation. 
That dissolution of marriage must come out of the legal system with people resolving their family matters between themselves according to guidelines and with assistance of a mediator. Family Courts only to be used for enforcement as a last resort. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-We were last debating the motion for the second reading of this BUI, and  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson's amendment to the motion for the second reading, on 30 October 1974. On that occasion I spoke briefly of my general attitude to the Bill and the amendment. I said that the reason I wished to speak in the second reading debate as well as in the committee stage was that there was a general aspect I wished to put forward which I thought should be considered generally. 
On 30 October  Senator Melzer  referred to the situation of women in Australian society. She referred to whether this BUI reflected or in fact determined the status of women in Australian society. I suggest to the Senate that for all that many honourable senators have said, women in Australia today are not equal and it is not the province of the Family Law Bill, this Bill being basically a divorce BUI, to determine the status of women. This sort of BUI can only reflect the status of women in Australia today. Australian women are not equal in the sense that many honourable senators argued when they rose to speak to this BUI. The clauses in question so far as this aspect is concerned are those relating to maintenance and property, and to injunctions. I would like to make some general statements on maintenance and property, on how they are defined and reflected in the BUI, and on some amendments to the Bill that I understand are to be moved by the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy). 
I said a minute ago that in fact the Family Law BUI can only reflect the situation of women and children in society today. There is an argument advanced that there should be a notion of child maintenance instead of wife maintenance, and in theory I would like to agree with that theory. I certainly believe that parents- a man and a woman who marry and decide to become parents- have a joint responsibility for as long as those children are dependent, whether or not the man and the woman continue to remain in a state of matrimony. If there is a divorce a very serious question has to be considered- how those children are to be maintained. I would like to accept the nice neat theory that there is equal responsibility and that there ought to be equal financial responsibility. But I suggest to the Senate that Australian society, having been what it is for so long and only so recently undergoing change, does not put Australian women generally in the same economic situation as men are. It would be nice to believe that if the man obtained custody of the children the ex-wife would then make the same sort of financial contribution to their upkeep as the ex-husband would in the reverse situation. I suggest that in very few circumstances is this possible. It would be nice if the theory could be carried out that women did not need maintenance and that child maintenance were the only sort of maintenance we needed to consider. But there is a very strong case for saying that this is just not so in Australian society today. I would welcome a time when it may be possible to do this but it is not now possible. 
We have to recognise that in Australia in 1974 when we talk about women's economic and social status we are dealing with conditions which were set 20, 30 or 40 years ago. We are not dealing with conditions which are currently being set for the advancement of women in Australian society nor with conditions as recent as 5 years ago. There are many women in Australian society today who are in a particular social and economic position as a result of very different attitudes which overwhelmingly obtained for a long period of time and indeed until just very recently. The dependent members of our society who have been put in the position of being dependent because of those attitudes- basically the women and children of our society- must be guarded. If the Government- this Government or any future government- brings forward legislation which will genuinely enable women to be more independent, particularly economically, then I shall welcome it. But so long as governments have not taken all the necessary measures to make that possible then we must not, via the Family Law Bill, abandon those individuals who have been brought up to be dependent, who have been expected to be dependent, who have been conditioned to be dependent and who are capable of being nothing but dependent because of all those pressures. 
There are a number of clauses in that section of the Bill relating to maintenance and property. The most important one is clause 54. 1 shall make some reference to the amendments which the Attorney-General has foreshadowed that he will move to this and other clauses because I think it is more to the point that we have the opportunity to talk about the actual amendments that will come forward, and thereby to have a debate at the second reading stage on provisions we will be actually debating in Committee. There is a provision in the Bill- I fear it is a grudging onewhich, if  Senator Murphy's  amendment is accepted, will mean that in assessing an individual's contribution we should have to look at the extent to which the party- I am now referring to proposed new paragraph (ga) of clause 54- whose maintenance is under consideration has contributed to the income, earning capacity, property and financial resources of the other party. This is a crucial concept. It is one that is not generally recognised in the Australian society. I will go so far as to say that it is not a concept which has been recognised in either House of the Parliament in the past. It is overdue. 
It is, of course, a continuing complaint of exhusbands who are paying maintenance that they are paying according to the money that they are earning after the marriage has been dissolved. But there has been very little recognition given to the fact that the overwhelming majority of women who have undertaken what we call home duties, who have occupied the traditional social role of wife, housewife and mother, have had a very large bearing in many cases on their husband's earning capacity. If the husband had been a widower at an early stage or if the wife had been not prepared to support her husband in many ways then his potential earning capacity would have been reduced. The example is obvious in the case of, say, the professional man or the business man. I think it is probably very obvious to all those married male senators who are present that if they did not have wives prepared to support them strongly and to supplement the job they do here in the Senate and also in their home States then they would not be able to do the same job. There are many people we ourselves know who have been prevented from pursuing a political career at all because their wives were not prepared to undertake the sort of responsibility that goes with being the spouse of a member of Parliament. There are many examples of cases such as this where, through their supportive dependent role, women in our society have enabled the men to reach a higher degree of proficiency and a higher earning capacity. It is very difficult to work out a formula which takes recognition of this fact in the matter of maintenance when the marriage breaks down but in the matter of simple justice to almost half the citizens of our community this must be done. 
There is another very crucial area which relates to the matter of property: What is the value of the labours of the woman who follows the traditional role of wife, housewife and mother, in the accumulation of property? Our laws have treated women very badly in this respect. I suggest to the Senate that there will be no real equality for women in Australia until there is some coming to grips with the economic status of this type of woman. The current situation is that a man with a dependent spouse- a wife- can claim, I think, $7 a week as a taxation deduction. It is not, of course, worth $7 cash to him but that is how much he can claim for taxation purposes. Our society officially rates the economic contribution to the family of the wife and mother at home at $7 a week. That is a pitiful amount of money and it in no way approaches the reality of the facts. The woman who stays at home and who contributes to the family and to the economy of the family through what we call home duties occupies an economic role far greater than that which is given official recognition through the laws of our land. Many families have discovered this with the growing number of wives who are going out to work in the situation where both partners work. 
Many people feel that in that situation the woman who goes out to work earns money which is sheer cop. It has some effect on the taxation situation of the family but a relatively minor one when we are talking about a deduction that is worth only $7 a week. In fact, all families find that the price to the family in money terms of the mother or the wife going out to work is much higher than it is to keep her at home. Many extra expenses are incurred. Some could be considered as taxation deductions. Others are less tangible and rather more difficult to value. The cost of feeding the family where the wife and mother goes out to work inevitably rises. The cost of clothing that family inevitably rises. There are many other expenses incurred. The cost to the family of the woman working outside the home is very high. We must balance this against the traditional situation of the woman who stays at home and who does not have that separate economic identity. 
However, when we are looking at the question of maintenance and property we must devise some means of giving that woman a separate economic identity. The proposed new paragraph (ga) in clause 54 gives us some basis for it and it is probably a move in the right direction. But we must recognise- as against groups such as the Divorce Law Reform Association which want to see the pure theory followed without looking at these sorts of mitigating facts- that until other laws which actually determine the economic and social role of women are changed, this Bill if and when it is passed must reflect those other facts. 
There is another factor which is crucial. Again it is one to which  Senator Missen  made some reference. I refer to the woman marrying, becoming a mother and necessarily, almost inevitably, withdrawing from the work force and the effect that this has on her earning capacity. The general statement can fairly be made that most women between the ages of 25 and 40 withdraw from the work force because they become mothers and they have to care for their children to the stage when they feel the children are old enough or independent enough to look after themselves and where harm will not be done to the families if the women do go out to work. I think it is important that the Senate recognises and that Australian society recognise the very simple fact which is known to anybody who has pursued a career, either man or women. If you lose your earning years from 25 to 40, you lose the years in which the individual is at the maximum of individual drive, in which individuals make the most advance in their careers and thereby get to a situation at age roughly 40 when they can start to enjoy the sort of high income that comes as a result of ambition and hard work. The women or the individuals who withdraw from the work force at age approximately 25 years and attempt to re-enter at 40 can make some progress in their professions but they can never make the sort of progress which compensates for losing those crucial years. In property settlements and maintenance settlement in divorce proceedings this must be taken into account. It is not enough to say that the ex-wife can go out to work as a typist, which was one of the examples  Senator Missen  gave. It is not enough to say that she was a doctor, that she can go through a short period of retraining, become a doctor again and support herself very well. The fact is that she has made enormous economic sacrifice during the years she has been out of the work force for the sake of the family and she will continue to make an economic sacrifice, whether she wishes to or not, by virtue of having been out of the work force through those years. Those are the facts of working life in Australia and, in justice, they must be considered by the Family Law Court or whichever court considers this Bill or any future Bill. 
I mentioned before that there has been a conditioning of women in society. I am not a very old senator, but it is not so long ago, certainly at the time when I finished my primary schooling, that it was almost axiomatic that girls left school at the age of 13 years. That was the age at which most of the girls with whom I went through primary school left school. Very few of us went on to high school and very few indeed went on to tertiary education in those circumstances. The situation has changed rapidly, but the fact is that very many young women in their late twenties and early thirties are now in the position that they left school at the age of 1 3 or 14 years, possibly did a 6 months' training course in business studies to teach them shorthand and typing, if they were lucky. Many of them went into factories or behind shop counters because those were the jobs that girls did, even in that recent past in Australia. These women are not now fit to go out into the work force and earn anything like a reasonable income. 
I have encountered many women, just a little older, who never went to work at all. That was not so prevalent in my time, but it was not very much further back in Australia's history than that. It would apply to many women now at about the age of 40 years who, when they finished their primary school, did not go to work at all. It was considered quite normal in those days for girls to work in the home and assist their mothers to bring up the rest of the family until such time as they married- the assumption being that all girls married wisely and well, an assumption which has never been borne out by the facts. So we have very many women, and not necessarily even middle aged women, who are in no situation at the moment to go out and start earning anything like a reasonable living income in today's society. The provision that there be some special maintenance to enable women in that situation to achieve a reasonable degree of job skill which would enable them to live decentlynot just to survive- is a very important one. We must face the situation that previous facts, some of them recent, some of them further back, have left us with a particular social situation. Whilst our society today may not have been responsible for it and may not have that point of view- it is a qualified statement on my part- our society must recognise the fact, must accept the responsibility and must be prepared to pay the cost, if purely in terms of simple justice. 
In concluding on this point I want to emphasise another point raised in the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs- a matter which, again, was raised by  Senator Missen  in his speech to the Senate on 29 October 1974. This was the recommendation that there be a further provision inserted in subclause (2) of clause 54 to the effect that any fact or circumstance which in the opinion of the court the justice of the case requires to be taken into account be included in the Bill.  Senator Missen  made a very good case for it. He pointed out situations where, on the actual wording of the Bill, we could have an unjust case if we looked only at need, that there is need for a flexible provision in this clause which would enable the court to deal in justice and fairness. We must recognise that we are dealing in a complex area of human relations, that every case which comes before a court for a dissolution of marriage will be different, and the court must be given the means to deal with those problems fairly. 
I wish to speak very briefly to the subject of clause 90 which relates to injunctions. The Divorce Law Reform Association is making quite a noise about this at the moment. It is strongly opposed to injunctions on the ground, it claims, that this means that a man's home could be taken from him on the whim of what is almost inevitably, according to DLRA, a neurotic wife. Recently in Australia facts have emerged- facts in the sense that they are facts which now can be counted- relating to the battered wife and battered children in Australia. We have always known that there were battered wives and battered children in Australia, but only recently have enough of these women come forward, had access to groups like Women's Electoral Lobby and others which have made their mark in this area, for us to start to count just how big a problem this is in Australian society. Previously these women were too ashamed to admit that this was their way of living. Currently most of them are still too ashamed to admit to society that they are in this position. But now that some help is offered to them and some hope is offered to them by outside organisations we are reaching the stage where we can assist. A conservative assessment currently is that approximately 5,000 families in Australia are in a situation where the husband habitually batters the wife and, almost inevitably in those circumstances, the children. In the past, although there has been some provision for the protection of the weaker members of the family, before the courts or the police would act a man would virtually have to break his wife's leg and all but kill her before anybody would move. We have to recognise now that there are some men in our society who, whether under the influence of alcohol, because they are mentally disturbed, or because they are just plain bullies, do severely mistreat their wives and their children. Some of them mistreat only the wife, but the social effects on the children are absolutely appalling. It is appropriate that there be some sort of safeguard in this Bill for women and children in that situation whereby they can be protected promptly through a court injunction so that they may be given some hope of getting out of this absolutely appalling situation. 
I wish to make just one other brief comment on the subject of children. An assertion has been made several times in this debate already, and I believe it will be made several times more before even the second reading debate is over. It is also said frequently outside the House and brought forward as an argument against making the sort of amendment that this sort of Bill proposesthat the breakdown of a marriage has a bad effect on the children. I thought many people knew this, but some of the statements made in the Senate show some ignorance of the situation. I have had quite some experience with adolescent children. I was in the situation of being a resident teacher in a girl's boarding school for some years and came into very close contact with the sort of problems that children in this age group, and undoubtedly also younger children, face. 
There is no doubt at all that a broken home, a home in which divorce has taken place, in which there is only one parent, leads to problems for the children of that family. But I say quite categorically, and I would debate it with anyone, that the problems I have witnessed and that many other people involved with youth have witnessed in that situation are as nothing compared with the sort of problems of the children who live in a desperately unhappy home- the trauma that those children go through when parents are fighting, bickering and endeavouring to tear one another apart, frequently using their children as pawns and the means of doing so. 
I agree that there is some sort of correlation between delinquency and broken homes. I would like to see someone do their homework properly and show the degree of correlation between a broken home and an unhappy home. My experience has been overwhelmingly to the effect that the unhappy home has a far more deleterious effect on children than the broken home where there is only one parent. 
In conclusion, I repeat something that I said when this debate commenced a couple of weeks ago; I hope that this Bill goes through and I hope that it goes through speedily. I believe that there is a strong need for it in the community. The present situation leads to all manner of injustices and abuse by individuals in the situation where the marriage has already irretrievably broken down. I believe that we must give people a decent way of extracting themselves from the marital contract. We have to provide a just way for determining maintenance and property. Above all else, because it is the key to anybody's concern with a Bill relating to the family or divorce, we have to give the means for justice and a decent life to the really innocent parties- the children of those broken down marriages. 
I wish to speak briefly to the point that  Senator Milliner  has made. I think his is a very important point. One of the major criticisms that has been made by opponents of the Bill is that it will force divorce on those who do not want it. While I am not opposed to the notion of somebody taking divorce proceedings against the will of somebody else, 1 do very much object to the position where people are forced to take proceedings when it is against the will of both. I can well envisage a situation in which, in the interests of justice and in order to settle a matter of marital property- this is the matter at which we have been looking- a person may be forced to take proceedings. But for very genuine religious reasons or some other reason that person may just feel quite prohibited personally from actually instituting divorce proceedings. I think acceptance of the Bill in the minds of a lot of people would depend on that notion, namely, whether we force people into divorce courts against their will simply to bring about a fair settlement of marital property. For that reason 1 support the amendment that  Senator Missen  has moved. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Amendment ( by  Senator Murphy)  agreed to: 
In sub-clause (4), leave out paragraphs (a) and (b) and insert the following paragraphs: 
the financial contribution made directly or indirectly by or on behalf of a party or a child to the acquisition, conservation or improvement of the property, or otherwise in relation to the property; 
the contribution made directly or indirectly to the acquisition, conservation or improvement of the property by cither party, including any contribution made in the capacity of homemaker or parent; ' 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 59 and 60- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 6 1 . 
An order with respect to the maintenance of a party to a marriage or a child of a marriage ceases to have effect upon the re-marriage ofthe party or the marriage of the child. 
Nothing in this section affects the recovery of arrears due under an order at the time when the order ceased to have effect. 
Amendment (by  Senator Murphy)  agreed to: 
Leave out sub-clause (4) and insert the following sub-clauses: 
An order with respect to the maintenance of a party to a marriage ceases to have effect upon the re-marriage ofthe party. (4a) An order with respect to the maintenance of a child of a marriage ceases to have effect upon the adoption or marriage of the child. (4b) Where a re-marriage referred to in sub-section (4) or a marriage referred to in sub-section (4a) takes place, it is the duty of the person for whose benefit the order was made to inform without delay the person liable to make payments under the order of the date ofthe re-marriage or marriage. (4c) Any moneys paid in respect of a period after the event referred to in sub-section (4) or (4a) may be recovered in a court having jurisdiction under this Act. '. 
asked the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Premier of Queensland request the Prime Minister, in March-April this year, to make available Commonwealth Government funds to help combat locust plagues then threatening Queensland grain crops; if so. what answer was given to this request. 
Has the Minister received any requests for such assistance from the Queensland Minister for Primary Industries: if so, what answer was given to those requests. 
What were the terms of the agreement between the Commonwealth and Queensland governments, when the decision was made to use Australian Army personnel and equipment to assist in spraying locust infestations in Queensland in mid- 1 973. 
For which categories of expenses did each Government agree to accept responsibility. 
What were the actual costs incurred in each of the categories. 
-In opening my remarks I thank  Senator Wriedt  for the reasonable way in which he invited me to outline in the next 5 minutes, which is the time available to me, all the new policies of the Liberal Party which have not yet been announced. I thank him for his reasonable manner because it was in sharp contrast to the rather unreasonable manner in which we have been invited to do the same by honourable senators earlier in the debate today. It is certainly not my intention, obviously, to give policies which have not yet been announced. In the eventuality that our policies will be announced in the next few weeks, as has already been stated, the proper representatives of the Liberal and Country Parties will make the announcement. In the intervening time we have had efforts by Labor Party senators, as was evidence in this debate today, to write the policy for us. It has been a strong feature of the Labor Party, as it was during the May election and has been over the last couple of days, that it would dearly like the responsibility of writing a policy for us which would undoubtedly keep us in Opposition forever. 
We do not intend to give them that responsibility; we intend to face our own responsibilities. 
In the course of this debate, a debate condemning the massive unemployment existing in Australia, we have had the usual excuses from the Government, excuses which once upon a time took the form of beating on a drum but which now have degenerated into a mere bleat on the part of certain Labour senators. We have had some explaining away. We have had some novel light thrown on issues which have been issues for the last 2 years. We have heard during the course of  Senator Wriedt's  speech new explanations. Reasonably though they may have been pronounced, I suggest that we look at what the Government was saying at the time, what it was claiming it was doing, and what it was claiming its achievements were at that time in comparison with what  Senator Wriedt  has just told us. Time will not permit me to give the sort of detail that is necessary but all of us and all Australians will remember very clearly that in about January or February 1973 when the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was proudly proclaiming to the people of Australia in respect of the unemployment figures which were then being produced only 2 months after the Liberal-Country Party Government had gone out of office, that he had done all this in one month and Parliament had not even sat at that stage. This would have been a remarkable record for anybody if anybody had believed it. One got the firm impression that  Mr Whitlam  may have believed it. Now we are told that what was going on in Australia in early 1 973 was the result of what the Liberal-Country Party Government had done towards the end of 1972. All credit was grabbed by the Government at the time for the fact that unemployment figures were then responding to Liberal-Country Party initiatives of some months earlier. It takes months for these figures to show the effect of Government action. All credit was grabbed by them for that but no responsibility is taken for the position that was aggravated by their actions from the very time they came into government in early 1 973. 

 Senator Wriedt said that at the time of their taking government, conditions were exceptional in terms of the amount of inflow of funds into the Australian economy. A budget had been introduced towards the end of 1972 which was meant to boost the Australian economy. The new Government, in the very first days of its taking office and of the Parliament meeting, instituted a number of policies which inevitably had an inflationary effect. At the time there was comment that its policies would be inflationary. At the time there were comments that if it were to continue in this vein it would be running a very real risk with the fabric of the Australian economy. I hate to think how many times since I have been a member of the Senate- it has not affected me very much- Labor senators opposite have said: 'The previous government did nothing in 23 years'. In 23 years we did not manage to produce unemployment which rivalled the rate of unemployment during the Depression. In 23 years we managed to keep the economy relatively stable and growing. In the 1 972 Federal election campaign the Labor Party sold the line that this meant doing nothing. Many of the Australian people bought it. They have learnt to their cost that it takes a great deal of hard work and effort and very wise policies to keep the Australian economy stable and steadily growing. We have learnt this to our cost by the unstable sort of policies, the rush-in type policies and the illconsidered policies that we have had from this Government quite recently. 
I totally deplore the statements that have been made by a number of Government senators that we are clapping our hands with glee because of unemployment in Australia. We are all members of Parliament. We are all subject to the pressures that come to any member of Parliament when there is high unemployment in the country. I speak for myself when I say this and I know that it is the case for all other members of Parliament with whom I have discussed the matter. I would have assumed that this was the case with Labor Party senators opposite. My office is being inundated with people in terrible positions not only because of unemployment but also because of this Government's ineptitude in handling the situation it has created. One thing we have not heard in the course of this debate is the usual eulogies of the policies and the schemes the Government has introduced to meet the problems of unemployment. Honourable senators opposite would not have needed to do this because in that area also their ineptitude has been marked. The matter of urgency concerns: 
The massive unemployment produced by the policies of a Labor Government demonstrably incapable of preventing hardship and deprivation to the hundreds of thousands of Australian workers who arc the victims of the destruction of business confidence and initiative. 
The Senate will now vote upon this matter. I strongly support the substance of the matter of urgency. I have supported it as well as I could in the small amount of time available to me. I move: 
That the question be now put. 
I hope that when historians look back on this debate they will be able to read the Hansard report clearly. I am not an historian, and do not need to be, to read last night's report of what was said in the Senate in relation to our amendment to the motion. The Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Senator James McClelland)  said: 
As might be inferred from what I have said, we on this side regard  Senator Withers'  amendment as a worthy one and we are prepared to accept it. 
I find it difficult to respond with any sort of warmth to the apparent passion with which  Senator Wheeldon  has spoken this afternoon. We had a motion put to us which we in the Opposition found unacceptable for various reasons which  Senator Withers  put to the Senate in detail last night. I will speak briefly on a couple of them in a little while. The Opposition moved an alternative amendment in terms which, according to the lead up to the debate, should have made the Government very happy. The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt)  during his opening speech, when referring to members of the Opposition, said: 
Will they stand up to defend the convention, to defend the agreement between the States, to defend the democratic rights of the New South Wales voters? . . . Will they seek to remain silent on this great and historic question of principle by the device of moving an amendment which deliberately dodges the central issue? 
The purpose of our amendment was to make 2 statements- a statement as to who actually has the legal right to make the appointment, which cannot be quibbled at because it is a legal and constitutional right, and a second statement on the procedure we believed States should follow when there is a casual vacancy in the Senate. These were the issues to which  Senator Wriedt  referred. He asked us to stand up to defend the convention, to defend the agreement- and there is some dispute about that- between the States. That we have done. We have not dodged that central issue, which was denned by the Government when it opened the debate last night. Our amendment is very much to the point. 
We had an extraordinary spectacle following the introduction of our amendment. The Manager of Government Business in the Senate  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  was the first to raise the probity of so-called political appointments to the High Court. The next  speaker  from the Government referred to it also. I do not want to pursue this point. I am not a member of the legal profession, and I do not believe that we should be saying things in the Senate which reflect on the probity of our judges. Many strong reflections have been made today on the remarks made by  Senator Scott  last night. Some comments were made during the debate this morning which I could not accept and which at the time I indicated 1 could not accept by means of interjections to  Senator Everett.  Last night  Senator Douglas  McClelland, when referring to  Mr Murphy,  said. 
He was elected to the Senate, but he was chosen by the Government to accept a judicial post and he accepted that judicial post, as other members of the present High Court of Australia did. If  Senator Greenwood  likes to name them he can do so because he knows a greater number of them than I do. 
I suggest that there is not a senator of Australia who did not know exactly what  Senator Douglas  McClelland meant by that. We should have had, on the surface of it, a brief and non-acrimonious debate. The Government indicated, in the words of  Senator James  McClelland: 
. we on this side regard  Senator Withers'  amendment as a worthy one and we are prepared to accept it. 
Nevertheless, we have had at times a very acrimonious debate and at times a very heated debate. I have come into the debate not because I wish to prolong it- I will attempt to be brief- but because I feel that there are some things which I must say. I must say some things in reply to some of the allegations made by Government supporters which I feel touch on my probity as a senator. I specifically wish to reply to allegations that were made this morning by  Senator Hall,  the Independent senator from South Australia. 
He is not by my definition a fellow Liberal, nor is he by his own.  Senator Hall  chooses to walk and to sit apart, to campaign and to speak apart. One must look, with all the high morality that several Government speakers have proposed when speaking today, at just what they have been doing and what they have been claiming to do. Personally, I found the remarks of  Senator Wheeldon  in some particulars offensive. He accused Opposition senators of posturing and then entered into a discussion of a particular appointment to the High Court by accusing the Opposition of being the first to raise it. If he were to check the Hansard record, as I have pointed out he will know that it is patently wrong. There was a desire on the part of some Government senators to pursue the line that they thought they would be pursuing when they came into the Senate to launch this debate last night, to attack a particular member of the New South Wales Parliament, to attack the New South Wales Government and its actions, and to attack what they thought would be the Opposition's stance- quite mistakenly. The Minister for Repatriation and Compensation did not have good reason to believe that so strongly. 
The attitudes of quite a number of Opposition senators, as well as Opposition members of the House of Representatives, were quoted in the Press yesterday. I was one of those who was quoted. A large number of us were interviewed, I am told. I do not know how many were quoted but I was certainly one who was. The amendment moved by the Opposition which was put to the Senate last night and which will be voted on shortly reflects the point of view that I gave to the Press yesterday before knowing what our move would be. It was a stand I would have maintained in any event. This is important because another honourable senator in this place who calls himself a Liberal has made very serious reflections on all Liberal senators. He made them this morning. At the time I attempted to get him to elucidate the allegations he was making. 
I said one who chooses to call himself a Liberal, not one that I recognise as a Liberal. Yes, indeed, I am referring to  Senator 
Steele Hall.  Senator Steele  Hall said that he was sorry that the Government had accepted the amendment, that it had accepted this watered down version of its motion. The amendment is not a watered down version of the Government's original motion. It is a distinct amendment which was accepted as a distinct amendment. However, it was fashionable in a couple of speeches today to call this amendment a watering down of the Government's motion. It was nothing of the sort. 
My Leader in the Senate spoke last night at some length on our reasons for not supporting particularly parts (1) and (2) of the Government's motion. I do not wish to revive that motion but it is relevant to note that there is a very strong difference between our amendment and the Government's original motion. In speaking this morning when he accused us of putting in a watered down motion,  Senator Hall  said that the moderates of the Liberal Party had been silent in the Senate. The reason he gave for the silence of the moderates was fear. He had much to say about what he called the moderates. He went on to say that he warned the moderates that not to speak is to lose to the extremists. I asked  Senator Hall  several times during the course of that section of his speech to whom he was referring as moderates. 
You may recall,  Mr President,  that  Senator Hall  said that one of the moderates had risen in the Senate to state their point of view and that only the extreme conservative point of view had been voiced. I asked him several times: 'Who are the moderates and to whom are you referring?'. So long as  Senator Hall  does not answer that question then all Liberal senators can be accused by him, by inference, at any time as being either an extreme conservative or a moderate who will not speak. He has a broad choice in the list of speakers who have spoken on this side of the House on this particular motion. So long as  Senator Hall  does not indicate who are these moderates who fear to speak I stand apparently accused by him of being an extreme conservative. 
I would like  Senator Hall  to clarify that remark. I think that I at least am entitled to that. According to the statement made by  Senator Hall  this morning I am one of these extreme conservatives. I was one of a number of people in the Liberal Party meeting room yesterday who forced these moderate Liberals to knuckle under to a majority vote. It is quite some time, as  Senator Jessop  pointed out at that stage of the debate, since  Senator Hall  knew anything about Liberal Party meetings. It is some time since  Senator Hall  has been in a position to speak with any authority. Whichever brand of Liberal I happen to be according to  Senator Hall  's statement, I say quite categorically that whether I am a moderate who walks in fear or an extreme conservative who suppresses my colleagues in the Senate, his statement that a majority suppressed a minority yesterday in the Party room is total nonsense. I was, as I said earlier, one of those honourable senators who was quoted in the Press yesterday morning as saying that I believe that the practice that has been followed for some years in relation to casual vacancies should be followed in this instance. 
I put it to honourable senators that the amendment we are putting forward hardly squares with the notion expressed by  Senator Hall  as to who were the conservatives. Apparently  Senator Hall  was disappointed. He would have liked the Opposition to have rejected the Government's motion outright and to have proposed no positive alternative. We put up a positive alternative which has been accepted by the Government. That disappointed him. For once he could not get up and say that the Opposition was being negative. He makes that statement repeatedly, regardless of whether or not the Opposition is being negative. By the Government's acceptance of our amendment,  Senator Hall  had no platform on this occasion to accuse us of being purely negative. 
I must on this point take strong exception also to remarks made by  Senator Everett. Senator Everett  said something today which  Senator James  McClelland certainly did not say last night.  Senator Everett  said that the Government accepted our amendment in order to get a motion of some sort on the books. He then went on to elaborate his statement about the Government wishing to get a motion of some sort on the books. He said it was clear that if our amendment was defeated a vote would be taken on the Government's motion, we would vote against that and we assumed there would be a tied vote on both matters. He said that if our amendment were not carried then we would defeat the Government's motion and there would be no decision.  Senator Everett  said that for the purpose of getting a decision on to the books the Government accepted our amendment. Earlier I quoted  Senator James  McClelland 's words. I shall quote them again. He stated: 
. we on this side regard  Senator Withers'  amendment as a worthy one and we are prepared to accept it. 
That hardly indicates any sort of compromise on the ground that we want to get something or anything at all on the statute book. 
They were the last words spoken by that honourable senator. I will agree with  Senator Georges  that it was rather difficult at some stages to follow what  Senator James  McClelland was going to say finally. He seemed to indicate during part of his speech that he was opposed to the amendment. Nevertheless, the Government has used the device of moral outrage at our reasons for putting forward this amendment. As a means of" attacking it and in speaking to the original motion honourable senators have attacked the Premier of New South Wales. A moral little, story was read to us by  Senator Wheeldon.  He told us that there were 2 requirements for law and order in Australia.  Mr President,  I suggest to you, as one of the very few non-lawyers who has spoken in this debate but nevertheless as a debater, that the criteria which  Senator Wheeldon  put up were worthy of the sophistry of a debating stage and not worthy of criteria which this Senate will accept. At some further time I would be delighted to debate with  Senator Wheeldon  whether he is the custodian of absolute truth as to what constitutes the criteria for law and order in Australia. I suggest that that was a device to launch a political attack on the Opposition while pretending, in the end, through a vote to support us. 

 Senator Everett also made some sort of an attack on us on the basis of Vietnam. I mention this in passing. It is an old device in debating that if one does not have anything to say about what is being debated one talks about something else but pretends it is relevant to the subject under discussion. This is a device with which honourable senators are familiar. The relevance of the comment on Vietnam quite escaped me as I think it was probably meant to escape anyone except those who respond with a certain sort of emotion to the comment which  Senator Everett  made. Or perhaps we were supposed to be misled into a debate on that subject. That level of debate hardly fits the style of high moral probity which some Government senators have chosen to strike when speaking to this matter. 
I said that I would be brief, but I wish to mention one other point. I do not bring this up to be purely politically provocative but, as a Queensland senator, I think it is highly relevant. It is the matter of the Gair affair. The Government should watch what its own record has been in these matters. As a Queensland senator I know that the appointment of  Mr Gair  to a diplomatic posting-  Mr Gair,  of course, formerly being an honourable senator for Queensland- mattered very much in Queensland. The Government should have learnt its lesson. I hope that it has. 1 did not approve of what the Government did at the time. I would prefer not to see any deviation from practice in this event. 

 - Senator Georges said that I would not be here if the Government had not taken that action. That is a matter which is a debate in itself. It is a matter of interesting conjecture as to what my chance of election would have been if there had not been a double dissolution. But there is certainly no doubt what the Government's motives were in appointing  Mr Gair  to a diplomatic posting. The purpose was simply to provide 6 vacancies in Queensland. The Government knew very well that it could not win 3 out of 5 Senate seats. Members of the Government can apparently count. They can multiply and they can divide. They did their sums on election percentages and they decided that if there were 6 vacancies in Queensland the numbers might have come up right for them on that occasion. I suggest that that sort of manipulation of diplomatic posting, of Senate numbers and of representation of honourable senators hardly fits the argument we have. At that time  Mr Gair  was a long term senator. He had been elected by the people of Queensland with 16% per cent of the vote. He was not an Independent at the time he was elected. The people who voted for his Party apparently were entitled to substitute representation by his Party. But a different device was used by the Government. The Government used the device of timing which made for 6 vacancies. That was a little bit different from this situation. That sort of extreme cynicism in manipulation does not fit the high moral probity on which honourable senators on the Government side depend to attack the Premier of New South Wales. 
I believe that the attitude which is expressed in the Opposition's amendment is the correct one. We have to recognise the legal fact. Then we express an opinion about the practice which we would prefer to see followed. I do not believe that we should pass any judgment here in a formal way on what another government may do. Of course that was one of our big objections to the Government's motion. It is not for the Senate to pass motions of that sort, to use numbers or to use a particular political situation to direct the actions of another government. If we were to accept that motion then we could run riot if a government or an opposition had the numbers. As honourable senators we have a responsibility for the Federal area of government. Nevertheless, we have a responsibility as individual senators to indicate an opinion on what we consider a practice should be. I think it is very different to indicate that we would prefer this practice to be used in the matter of the appointment of honourable senators rather than to actually pre-judge another State Government on something that it may do or to pass a motion that has just purely high political content. As I said at the outset, I thought that when the Government accepted the amendment this might have been a rather shorter and less acrimonious debate. I am sorry that it has not been. Nevertheless, I am glad that the Government has accepted the amendment. I commend the content of the amendment as against the content of some of the speeches which have been made on a purely political basis to the Senate and to the public of Australia. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. It follows an answer that he gave earlier to  Senator Davidson  relating to a reduction or limitation of government expenditure. Is the Minister aware that a great deal of confusion exists in the community on just what is the Government's stand at the moment? Will the Minister indicate to the Senate whether promises that the Government made last year which have not yet been acted on come into the category of additional expenditure or an area of present expenditure? Specifically, will the Minister say whether the abolition of the means test on aged pensions for those in the 70 to 74 years age group is considered by the Government to be a commitment or an area of additional expenditure? 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Is it a fact that authorities at the North Head Quarantine Station removed identification marks on the orphans recently arrived from Vietnam? What action is the Government now taking to reidentify those orphans who were already committed to Australian families? 
I find it quite extraordinary that this Government should have introduced this Bill for the reasons that it has given. In Australia today we have the worst housing problem that we have had in the post-war era. I suggest that the problems faced by intending home buyers today- those who can afford to purchase homes- are problems that have been created by this Government, problems that at one stage it proudly claimed to have created quite deliberately. We can expect a fair amount of emotionalism to come from the Government side at the end of this debate, if we can take other housing debates as an example. 
I think that we should look at some of the facts relating to the housing industry and at what the Government claims it is trying to do. I do not think anyone can deny that in Australia today we have a real need for housing that is available to the citizen. Young people want houses at reasonable rates of repayment. Those who build houses would like to sell them. In Queensland there is not currently a shortage of housing; houses are available for purchase if someone can be found who has a sufficiently large deposit to put down, as well as a sufficiently large income to meet the repayments necessary under the exorbitantly inflated interest structure from which this coun- s currently suffering. We have seen a decline e rate of home ownership amongst Aus- 1 's- we were very proud of home ownership &gt; lational characteristic- and on the other  we have not seen a real encouragement of 
ownership. If the Government wanted to  rease the rate of home ownership in Australia, it  i  ould do so. It does not need to take over and duplicate functions that can be carried out by nxirting authorities or State governments. It ould make money available far more cheaply m.i effectively. 
One must question the Government's motives for what it has done. Obviously it aims to set up a large housing corporation that will give to the Canberra bureaucracy powers that at present are dis'Lryified. It will spend much more money to enable it to build only the same number of homes as can be built through existing instrumentalities. There will be no increase in the number of homes available or in the choice of types of home available to Australians, particularly young Australians and those who may be economically disadvantaged and who do not own a home at all. I well remember the statements made by  Senator Cavanagh  last year at the end of the Glebe lands debate, when he spoke on the subject of attitudes towards home ownership. He claimed that the Opposition was not interested in housing the poor, that only the Government was interested in that. In fact, the whole thrust of the Government's policies on housing has been to provide rental housing- not to increase the rate of home ownership but to make people more dependent on paying out money to government agencies, without in any way giving them the hope or prospect of real independence in this very basic security that I believe most Australians want. They want the right to know that when they retire or cease work they will at least own their own home and have that very basic security. 
We also have had shown, through statements of the Minister- this is in direct contrast to the sort of comments  Senator McAuliffe  was making a few minutes ago- some abysmal ignorance of the actual status of the housing industry in Australia at any given time in the last 12 months.  Senator McAuliffe  said that he believed that the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  would be recognised as one of the greatest Housing Ministers- I think that was his statement- that Australia has had. Last September the housing agencies in Australia begged this Minister for a conference on the state of the housing industry. The conference extended over three or four days. At the beginning of that week the Minister said that there was no problem in the housing industry in Australia. By about the Thursday he was still saying that. However, at the end of the conference- the day after his optimistic statements- he made a statement in which he recognised that there was an urgent need for Government action in the housing area. Subsequently he made some additional grants to State housing commissions in an attempt to stimulate speedily the housing sector. On the basis of his past statements, this Minister's statements on the housing industry cannot be relied on. 
Of course, we have had much petty politics played by Federal Ministers with State governments on this very issue. Last year-  Senator McAuliffe  will be well aware of the details of this- some Federal Government Ministers saw fit to say in Queensland during the election campaign before the State election that the problems that the Queensland Government claimed it had in relation to housing were entirely its own, and that the State Government had not managed to spend the money that the Federal Government had given it. The reason they said this was that at the time the Government's accounts showed that some money had not been spent, but in fact all the money had been committed. That was the position in the case of the State Housing Commission and the building societies; not one cent was unspent in the sense that it would not be used to buy homes. The money had been committed to housing that was under way, but it had not been paid over because that housing was not finished. That very simple principle of accounting applies not only to governments. Federal Ministers saw fit to go to Queensland and to claim that $9m or $ 10m of Federal money had not been spent in Queensland. Statements of other Federal Ministers on this subject are open to question. 
What are the real reasons for the needs of the housing industry in Australia today? They are many, and the blame for all of these factors can be laid squarely at the feet of the Government. When this Government came into office a few words were said by its Ministers about shortages of supplies, inflation, and one thing and another. The Government made some very deliberate statements about its intentions in relation to the housing industry. During 1973 it claimed that our rate of inflation had to be slowed down by policies that were aimed at the building industry. It paid no attention to its own monetary policies in relation to public spending, the Public Service and other areas. Whatever the value of those policies, the Government chose to ignore what it must have known, namely, that it was not the housing industry that was causing inflation in Australia. There was a shortage of houses and enough money was available for prices to increase, but shortages are a basic factor in demand and increased prices, whether or not the demand is bottled up for a short period. 
Effectively, what this Government has managed to do with regard to the price of housing in Australia and the availability of houses to those who do not have substantial means, is to take away the availability of funds for most and to make sure that the normal process that ordinary individuals go through when aiming to own their own home is just not available to young or slightly disadvantaged people. There has been no encouragement towards thrift. There is no real incentive to save or to try to put aside the amount of money necessary for a deposit on a home. There has been no attempt to stimulate real competition in the building industry. Every attempt has been made to put down land developers at every turn. We have a crucial land shortage in Australia today, not because State governments are not acting and spending the money available to them- they are spending the money available to them- but because the Federal Government has pursued a deliberate policy that is against the interests of land development by private enterprise. We will have a tremendous problem in housing, which this Bill certainly will not solve. 
Then, of course, we have the problems of the credit squeeze, when people started to compete for the money that was available. Will someone tell me how that helped these people whom the Government now claims it wants to help? Will someone tell me how competition for funds helped the young people who had limited ability in terms of the deposit and the amount of repayment that they could afford? How would this help the disadvantaged in any way? Through the credit squeeze and its other inflationary policies in the area of building, the Government brought about and helped to accelerate a situation that already had problems. However, it was indeed this Government that said, when it set out in 1 973 on its creditsqueezetype policies, that one of its major objectives was, as it said, to take the heat out of the building industry. It certainly did that, and it has put much of the industry on ice as a result. It took the heat out quite deliberately; it quite explicitly said that it was setting out to do that. Now we find the Minister who represents the Minister for Housing and Construction in this chamber saying in his second reading speech: 
Inflation and the down-turn in private housing activity have created special problems for which the Government needs additional and powerful administrative machinery to deal with. 
I suggest that, although the Minister may say that historic hindsight is all very well, the problems were created by the Government. If it would look at these areas about which it is so determinedly blind, it might find better solutions than the one it has put forward. Also in its policy of providing a certain sum of money at selective interest rates, it chooses to ignore the fact that many interdependent factors lead to the solution or the compounding of the problems in the whole area of housing. 
There is the problem of land development, upon which I have briefly touched. There are the problems of the construction industry and of the manufacturing industry, and there are the special problems of the finance industry and of the financial institutions. They are all separate factors. Those problems are not solved by the Government transferring a group of people into a new bureaucracy, nominating a sum of money and saying: 'Now we will do it, and we will do it under some special powers'. The Government has shown such a poor understanding of the factors which have led to this situation that one can have little confidence in its ability or even in its goodwill. The Government which, as I have said, claimed to set out to slow down the housing industry now cannot be highly regarded when it makes these rather limited statements about solving the problem of the industry. 
The Bill contains the proposition that the Government wants to have the power for compulsory acquisition of land. There is a real fear among State governments- governments which have been planning for some years ahead in this area of acquisition of land- that the Commonwealth Government may find it necessary to carry out its programs by acquiring that State land. That is a possibility. The Government has not said how it will make additional land available. It has not said how it is in such a position that it can overcome the problems of land development which land developers have not been able to solve for their own particular reasons. The Government has not given any indication of its intentions in this* area. It has merely said that it will use that power if it has to do so. The duplication and wastage that we can expect to see flowing from this are matters that should alarm us. The problem is the high price of housing. To spend more money wastefully in the areas of salaries and planning will not solve the problem of the high price of housing. Maybe the Government can nominate a price which is below the value of a house. If that is its intention it should say so. 
The Bill in terms of special interest rates and other special conditions is very vague. The Minister has not been any more specific on this question, nor indeed have any Government supporters at any stage. In fact, all the functions of this Bill are currently catered for if the Government chooses to act that way. The Government has not said why this Bill is necessary. The Government does not need to tell us that there is a problem in the housing industry; that much we know. That much the Government could have taken for granted; I hope now that much it knows. The Government has not told us why this action on its part is necessary to meet that problem. The State housing commissions have said that they could take more money and that they could spend it. They have a shortage of funds. 
Last year building societies applied for more money than they were granted. Presumably that meant that they thought they could handle more loans than they could provide in view of the shortage of funds. The duplications that will occur in the bureaucracy are not ones which we should welcome. 
If the Government wants quickly to inject funds into the housing industry, and if it wants to do it through a government authority, the State housing commissions would appear to be the reasonable bodies to do it. They have the land, the plans and the facilities by which to increase their spending immediately if the Government is prepared to act in that way. Instead, we will have an increased factor in competition for housing resources. Where now we have some competition for resources for housing between the State housing commissions and the private sector of the housing industry, we will have a third and major factor if the Minister's words are to be taken as he uttered them. The Minister should spell out just what is this Government's attitude towards the private housing industry. He should also spell out his attitude towards the State housing commissions. Does he see what is proposed in this Bill as a growing function against the State housing commissions? If not, and as there is an urgent need for housing, why has not more money been put into the State housing commissions to meet the situation more quickly than is provided for in this Bill? 
This Bill was introduced last December but it was not proceeded with. Now, some months later we look at this supposedly urgent problem which requires this rather drastic solution. Earlier  Senator Carrick  said that the Opposition will be moving some amendments at the Committee stage. Although  Senator McAuliffe  expressed great fear about these amendments, I suggest that they are pretty mild ones. Earlier in the session the Opposition had stated a particular course of action in relation to this Bill. The Opposition has now changed its mind. 
We hear no apology from  Senator McAuliffe  or from anybody else for the Government's changing policies, its changing policies in relation to interest rates and selective interest rates which it now wishes to put up to us. The industry is in almost complete confusion. Significant sections of this industry are in bankrupty because of this Government's policies. That is not an issue on which  Senator 
McAuliffe can claim any superiority. The Opposition has decided that it will amend the Bill rather than reject it. The Australian people can learn just what benefit is to be gained from a Commonwealth dollar spent in this industry as against the alternative methods. Therefore I will support the amendments that the Opposition will move. I strongly appeal to the Minister when he replies to give some real answers on some of these issues and not to accuse us of things which are just not true. 
We were a Government which put a very high priority on home ownership. We ' were the Government which introduced the homes savings grant scheme for a particular reason, and it was a good solution to the problem at the time; it was welcomed by the Australian public at the time. Earlier in the debate  Senator McAuliffe  laughed about this scheme, but in fact it made a significant contribution towards providing young people with the ability to buy their first home. It was a real policy and one of which we were proud. This Government has not yet brought forward a policy which will match the record of the previous Government. We were in government for 23 years. We came through' the post-war period of really critical shortages in housing. We have now had 2'/4 years of this Government and we are on the backward path again. Will the Minister give to the Senate and to the Australian people some indication of just what our rights and entitlements will be in the future in relation to this basic issue of where and how we live? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Is it true that the Department of Defence has taken action to curtail travel on commercial airlines by servicemen, such travel having previously been approved as necessary for the performance of their duties? What explanation is available for this decision by the Department? Do similar restrictions apply to other activities of the Services? Does the Minister know whether any other Government departments have found it necessary to introduce restrictions on travel by their officers? 
I address my question to the Minister for Agriculture. Has the Minister seen newspaper reports that the Government is considering new subsidised interest loans for the beef industry? Can the Minister confirm that the proposal is to provide $20m at 4 per cent interest? In relation to the loan finance for the beef industry that the Government made available last year, can the Minister confirm a further report that of the allotted $20m only $6m has been advanced in 5 months? Would the Minister agree that the low demand for those funds reflects that the conditions under which they were offered, particularly at high current interest rates, made them inappropriate for the currently extremely depressed beef industry? Will the Minister therefore undertake to initiate whatever steps are necessary for the renegotiation of those loans, already approved, at a lower rate of interest? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security whether he recalls my asking him in August last year a question in relation to special benefits for supporting fathers. Does he recall that in his answer in October he said that this matter had been under examination by the Department of Social Security for some time and that the examination was then nearly completed? Is it anticipated that the examination will show that single parent families, where that parent is the father, have a financial need at least equal to that of similar families where the supporting parent is the mother? Has the examination been completed? When can we expect a more specific announcement on assistance for supporting fathers? 
-I rise to speak but very briefly on a subject that I hope I shall not need to raise again in the Senate. It is a subject which I have raised a number of times in the past. I feel that, at this point, just one more thing needs to be said in the interests of honesty and fairness to an individual outside the Senate who is involved in statements made here which, I believe, to have been not completely accurate. I am interested to note that in the appropriation for payments to or for the States there is at last some evidence of provision to give some assistance to Queensland in respect of this problem of locusts. It is not an issue involving a Federal subsidy and what that should or should not be that I raise. I wish to get into the Senate record a matter which I believe should be there and which came up in connection with this matter last year. 
On a number of occasions, questions were asked in the Senate and on a couple of occasions there was a debate on this subject. On 1 1 July last year, I asked the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  a question relating to assistance to Queensland in the matter of the very serious locust plague which had broken out there. Some time later, on 16 October,  Senator Milliner  rose in the Senate and asked the Minister for Agriculture a question in relation to this matter. I think it is important that I give a number of quotations from Hansard including dates and other references so that the Senate may fully understand what I am talking about. 
On 16 October,  Senator Milliner  asked the Minister for Agriculture this question without notice: 
Has the Minister for Agriculture seen reports in the Queensland Press that the Australian Government, while assisting financially in the control of the plague locust, has refused funds to fight the spur throated locust swarms now threatening crops in Queensland? 
What are the facts of the situation? 
I shall give just part of the reply by the Minister. I ask honourable senators to believe that I am being honest and truthful about this matter. The reply was rather long. I refer only to that part of the reply which concerns me at this point in time. As part of his reply,  Senator Wriedt  said: 
It is customary in relation to matters which are of concern within a State's borders, and where that State seeks assistance from the Australian Government, that the State concerned approach the Federal Government on a Premier to Prime Minister basis. No such request has come forward to the Prime Minister in relation to this current outbreak in Queensland. 
I must confess that at the time I was surprised by the answer. I understood that at that time an additional request had been made to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  along those lines. I subsequently spoke to the Minister outside the chamber and as a result asked him a question on 17 October on this matter. Part of the Minister's reply is: 
After I answered a question yesterday to the effect that no request had been received from the Queensland Premier, I learned that by a remarkable coincidence a request had come in that morning. Nevertheless, the presence of these locusts had been known for weeks and even months. The point I was making yesterday was that, despite  Senator Martin  's question of perhaps 2 or 3 months ago and despite the presence of these locusts, no request had come from the Queensland Premier. I want to make that clear. 
That day I placed a question on the notice paper in relation to this matter. I will discuss it later. Briefly it was pursuing the point of whether the Premier had in fact made a request earlier in the year or a number of requests for assistance, action which the Minister said had not taken place. On 12 November last year while debating Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ) I referred to the matter of assistance to the Queensland Government on this point. In replying the Minister said: 
In reply to some questions asked by  Senator Martin  over the past few weeks I indicated that the proper procedure should be adopted whereby the Queensland Government makes an approach to the Australian Government. Despite the presence of those locusts in Queensland no approach was made until a fairly late period. 
At this point the record shows that I interjected and said: 
The Premier claimed he wrote in April. 
The Minister continued: 
No approach was made until 16 October this year when the Premier of Queensland advised the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  of the problem of locusts. There was no request for any financial assistance despite the fact that this Government is the first Federal Government in history to make finance available for the fighting of locusts in any of the States. 
On 14 November, 2 days later,  Senator Milliner  again asked a question on the subject. I was absent from the Senate all day and had no opportunity to take the matter up at the time.  Senator Milliner's  question was: 
As opponents of the Australian Government are peddling stories in Queensland that the Premier of Queensland, the Honourable Joe Bjelke-Petersen, requested the Prime Minister in March this year to make funds available to combat locust plagues then threatening Queensland, will the Minister for Agriculture indicate whether such statements have any basis in fact whatsoever? 

 Senator Wriedt replied: 
I did indicate during the course of a debate in the Senate on Tuesday that it was not until October of this year that any approach was made by the Premier of Queensland for assistance in respect of locust problems in that State. It is quite incorrect to say that any approach was made before that. 
I repeat what I said a moment ago. At the time I had a question on the notice paper and in view of the content of that question there seemed to me to be no point in my pursuing the matter until I received an answer to my question. As I said, the question went on the notice paper on 1 7 October 1974. In late December, after the Senate had risen, I received an answer to my question by  mail at my office. The answer to this question has never been recorded in Hansard. I want it to be recorded in view of the other statements that were made by the Minister on this subject on a number of occasions last year. I do not know that it is necessary for me to read through the whole question and answer. Part of the question related to correspondence between the Premier and the Prime Minister on this subject and other parts of the question related to the terms of agreement between the Commonwealth and Queensland governments and costs. I should like to read out part of the question and answer, but I seek leave to have the total question and the total answer incorporated in Hansard. 
I present the following petition from 54 citizens of Australia: - 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
1 ) Eliminate private insurance for Australians. 
Have a serious effect on the private sector of the economy by the passing over of further funds to be controlled by the Government through its instrumentalities. 
Cost taxpayers far in excess of the proposed $2 million capital and loan funds. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 23 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
1 ) That Parliament should reject the Bill currently before it to establish an Australian Government Insurance Office. 
That while there is a need to establish in Australia a Natural Disaster Fund to provide compensation for property damage and other losses resulting from disasters such as earthquakes, floods and cyclones, such a Fund can be established, as in other countries, using the medium of the existing private enterprise insurance offices. 
That a plan for such a Fund was submitted to the Treasury in October, 1974. 
That no sound reasons for the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office (other than the desire to provide non-commercial disaster insurances and Australian Government competition with private enterprise) has been given by the Government. 
That there is already intense competition between the existing 45 life assurance offices and between over 260 general insurance companies now operating in Australia, and that further competition from a Government Office would only be harmful at this time. 
That the insurance industry is already coping with: 
the effects of inflation, 
b) increased taxation on life assurance offices, 
the effects of recent natural disasters, 
other legislative measures already in train or in prospect by the Government, e.g. the National Compensation Bill, a National Superannuation Plan and improved Commonwealth Public Service Superannuation. 
That as taxpayers your petitioners are greatly concerned at the huge costs (far more than the $2 million initial capital and loan funds which it is proposed will be allocated) of establishing an Australian Government Insurance Office. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate will reject the Bill. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I ask a question of the Minister for the Media. Has the Minister seen recent newspaper reports claiming that the Government intends to establish an organisation to be called the Australian office of information, with a staff of three hundred? Will the Minister confirm that last December Cabinet decided to establish this office? Has the Government made an official announcement of that decision? What will be the functions of the office and with what areas of government activities will it be concerned? How many additional staff must be employed by the Government as a result of this Cabinet decision? What is the estimated additional cost of this expansion of the Department of the Media and what is the estimated total cost of the operation of the office of information? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for the Media, follows the question which I asked him yesterday and which  Senator Poyser  asked him today. Yesterday I asked the Minister whether it is true that a total of 300 people are to be employed by his Department in the Australian Office of Information. Can he now tell us, since he has additional information, the total number of staff which will be employed in this Office, the type of staff which will be employed- numbers of journalists and others- and the areas and functions of these people and of this Office? 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister for Agriculture. Has the Government received representations from the Queensland Conservation Council protesting at the votes cast by Australia's representative, an officer of the Department of Agriculture, at the 1974 International Whaling Commission meetings? Will the Government give consideration to the proposal that from June 1975 the Department of Environment and not the Department of Agriculture represent Australia at future International Whaling Commission meetings? Is the Government considering re-adopting the Australian policy of 1972 and 1973 of a 10-year moratorium on the killing of whales? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. What arrangements have been made to obtain from the Minister for Social Security an answer to the question I asked a month ago concerning the Department of Social Security's examination of benefits for single supporting fathers and requesting an indication of when a specific announcement would be made on this subject? Will the Minister undertake to expedite answers to questions on this subject- questions which have been asked over a period now approaching 10 months? 
I present the following petition from 7 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
. Lead to the nationalization of the Insurance Industry. 
Divert a substantial flow of funds from the private to the public sector. 
Depress the private sector still further and create unemployment both within the Insurance Industry and elsewhere. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I  present the following petition from 1 17 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
Lead to the nationalisation of the Insurance Industry. 
Divert a substantial flow of funds from the private to the public sector. 
Depress the private sector still further and create unemployment both within the Insurance Industry and elsewhere. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Media and is on the same subject as the previous question. Does the Minister recall that in the report in yesterday's Melbourne 'Age'  Mr Stacey,  executive officer of the Australian Film Development Corporation, was quoted as saying that the film 'Adventures of Barry McKenzie' was financed originally by a syndicate of three, including a  Mr Saffron?  Can the Minister say who were the other two members of this syndicate, and will he undertake to find out through the channels available to him what other films  Mr Saffron  was involved in financing, either directly or indirectly? 
Does the Minister for the Media recall my asking him earlier this week a question relating to the financing of the film 'The Adventures of Barry McKenzie' and whether a  Mr Saffron  was involved in the financing? Does the Minister recall giving an undertaking to make inquiries to find out whether this in fact was so? Does the Minister have an answer to this matter yet? 
I present the following petition from 605 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable, the  President  and members of the Senate assembled: We, the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully refer to the Bill concerning the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office. 
We are not necessarily against the formation of such an organisation. We do however, feel that the Bill could be rushed through Parliament without sufficient deliberation. Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Bill be referred to a Senate Select Committee or Public Enquiry Committee. In this way submissions from interested parties can be called for. Recommendations from this Committee would then reflect the true wishes of the Australian electorate. 
And your petitioners as in duly bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 33 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
. Lead to the nationalization of the Insurance Industry. 
Divert a substantial flow of funds from the private to the public sector. 
Depress the private sector still further and create unemployment both within the Insurance Industry and elsewhere. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 37 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament established. The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
1 ) That Parliament should reject the Bill currently before it to establish an Australian Government Insurance Office. 
That while there is a need to establish in Australia a Natural Disaster Fund to provide compensation for property damage and other losses resulting from disasters such as earthquakes, floods and cyclones, such a Fund can be established, as in other countries, using the medium of the existing private enterprise insurance offices. 
That a plan for such a Fund was submitted to the Treasury in October 1974. 
That no sound reasons for the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office (other than the desire to provide non-commercial disaster insurance and Australian Government competition with private enterprise) has been given by the Government. 
That there is already intense competition between the existing 45 life assurance offices and between over 260 general insurance companies now operating in Australia, and that further competition from a Government Office would only be harmful at this time. 
That the insurance industry is already coping with 
a ) the effects of inflation, 
increased taxation on life assurance offices, 
the effects of recent natural disasters, 
other legislative measures already in train or in prospect by the Government, e.g. the National Compensation Bill, a National Superannuation Plan and improved Commonwealth Public Service Superannuation. 
That as taxpayers your petitioners are greatly concerned at the huge costs (far more than the $2 million initial capital and loan funds which it is proposed will be allocated) of establishing an Australian Government Insurance Office. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate will reject the Bill. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
I would like the petition to be read but as it exceeds 250 words in length I ask that leave be given for the petition to be read by the  Clerk. 
I wish to speak about the subject raised by  Senator Missen.  In the events of great moment that have occupied the attention of the nation and the Parliament over the last few days it has been very unfortunate that the Government's move in relation to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation has been paid so little attention by the public, the Press and the Parliament. It has been a very serious and very unwise move, and the Parliament should look at it. We should be thankful to  Senator Missen  for taking the trouble of raising the subject this evening. 
One may well ask why this has happened to the CSIRO. The Government has made a very tragic mistake. Those of us who have had any sort of contact with officers of the CSIRO over the last few days are aware that the morale of that organisation is rapidly plummeting. People who thought that they had no particular stake in the political area now find themselves the unwitting victims of the internecine strife of this Government. They have found that an organisation which has been working well in relation to the whole community, as well as the scientific community, over recent years has suddenly become a casualty through no fault of its own.  Senator Missen  made some comment about the effect on the morale of the CSIRO. Those of us who care about real progress being made for all Australia should be concerned that an organisation such as this, which is so well developed, which has contributed so much and which has so much to contribute, should be placed in this terribly dangerous situation. 
Whoever in the Government was responsible for doing this should do his homework, because the key to all this sort of scientific research in Australia today is that there should be an emphasis on the inter-disciplinary approach and the approach to the development of our tertiary institutes of research. Certainly the heavy emphasis on purely scientific research organisations, such as the CSIRO, has been to build up organisations in which scientists from different disciplines of research can work with one another. Indeed, the CSIRO has worked very closely with other scientific and academic research bodies. It has had a unique, very close and very valuable link with the universities. The universities and the CSIRO have co-operated in all their areas of research. They have lent their particular expertise and the particular assets in terms of equipment and brains that they bring collectively onto very important scientific problems in Australia. 
The effect of the Goverment 's snatching away of part of the CSIRO has to be one of very real significance through all these other instituations Working relationships which have taken years to build up- at a high cost to the nation, but it has been a worthwhile investment- and which have been extremely valuable suddenly have been imperilled in a very real way. Once again I ask: Why? On what rationale can the Government justify the breaking down of such an important and carefully built scientific research structure? It would be just as ludicrous if the Department of Agriculture were to snatch away the agronomy, the animal husbandry and the horticulture sections of the CSIRO. It would be just as ludicrous if the Treasury were to snatch away certain sections of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. 
We have set up these groups as a way of keeping in Australia the scientific brains which have been born here, which have been trained here and which we need. It is not so many years agoabout 20 years ago- when a big item of public interest was the so-called brain drain from Australia, whereby scientists in Australia found that they did not have the opportunity to participate, in the way in which they claimed they wanted to participate, in the development of the 
Australian nation. It was the development of organisations such as the CSIRO which enabled very important and very valuable people to stay in Australia. It also enabled many of them to return to Australia. Very many important, significant scientific researchers from overseas have come to Australia to participate in research programs which have been initiated by organisations such as the CSIRO, particularly those programs initiated in conjunction with other organisations such as universities. We are losing a valuable and a working scientific structure. 
If there is one charge that could never have been laid at the door of the CSIRO it is that of the ivory tower approach. The CSIRO has always consistently and conscientiously directed its efforts towards overcoming real practical problems in the community. It has taken the trouble of communicating very effectively with all those sections of the community with which it can have communication, just exactly what it is doing at any time- what has been the produce of the research. It has been able to convey this in a way which is useful particularly to the farmers. It has had mobility and ability because it was not directed from outside but directed according to the response to community needs. It has had the ability to shift quickly its areas of research or its emphasis as new needs have arisen. It has worked well and made very valuable contributions, for example to the wool industry in recent years when it was in very serious trouble. It is now shifting very effectively to research into the beef industry which is a current and fairly recent area of need in the community. 
This organisation must maintain its independence and above all it must maintain its own faith in its academic and scientific integrity. The community which is in contact with the CSIRO has had faith in it. It must continue to have faith in the organisation.  Senator Missen  has questioned whether the Government has the legal right to move the Organisation but to take this Organisation away and to make it part of the Public Service, especially a part of a very controversial area of the Public Service and Government endeavour, would be to destroy wilfully, needlessly and unforgivably an organisation which has been well motivated towards the advancement of our nation. 
I present the following petition from 101 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and senators in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
.  Shrink the flow of funds to the private sector. 
Add to the taxpayers burden. 
Trade unfairly. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister representing the Prime Minister and Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy and follows the question asked earlier by  Senator Missen.  Is the Minister serious when he says to the Senate that the matter of the dismemberment of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation is solely a matter between the Prime Minister and the Minister for Minerals and Energy. Would he not agree that it is of some concern to the country and to the Parliament at least? Is he suggesting that the only way we can discover something so vital in government policy is via the notice paper? Will he give the Senate an explanation of the announcement made by the Prime Minister last week that sections of the CSIRO are to be taken away from the responsibility of the Minister for Science and Consumer 
Affairs and made the responsibility of the Minister for Minerals and Energy? Would he tell us who made the approach for this sort of rearrangement to be made? Will he confirm that it was the Minister for Minerals and Energy and can he advise the Senate whether this was on the advice of the Department of Minerals and Energy or just an approach made by the Minister? On what basis did the Prime Minister approve this approach? What reason will the Prime Minister or the Government give for this new arrangement? Has the Government received representations from CSIRO and the Department of Science and Consumer Affairs to reverse its policy? What assurance can the Minister give to the remainder of the CSIRO and similar organisations that they will not be similarly treated in the future? 
asked the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Minister supply precise annual figures for the period 1953-1974 on the (a) average weight, and (b) average length of male sperm whales caught off Albany by Cheynes Beach Whaling Company. 
Will the Minister provide similar figures for female sperm whales caught by the Cheynes Beach Whaling Company over the same period. 
asked the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Minister release information on the Catch Per Unit Effort (CUPE) of the Cheynes Beach Whaling Company for the period 1955-1974 in relation to the annual catch of sperm whales. 
Will the Minister release this information in the form of annual CUPE figures taking into account (a) changes in catcher efficiency; (b) the division of labour among ships and aircraft; (c) differences in performance of different catcher vessels; (d) differences in the allowable catch sizes; (e) changes in the time spent searching and chasing; (f) introduction of sonar; and (g) contraction of 'area occupied' by the population as the population has been depleted. 
I present the following petition from 14 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
1 ) That Parliament should reject the Bill currently before it to establish an Australian Government Insurance Office. 
That while there is a need to establish in Australia a Natural Disaster Fund to provide compensation for property damage and other losses resulting from disasters such as earthquakes, floods and cyclones, such a Fund can be established, as in other countries, using the medium of the existing private enterprise insurance offices. 
That a plan for such a Fund was submitted to the Treasury in October 1974. 
That no reasons for the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office (other than the desire to provide non-commercial disaster insurance and Australian Government competition with private enterprise) have been given by the Government. 
That there is already intense competition between the existing 45 life assurance offices and between over 260 general insurance companies now operating in Australia, and that further competition from a Government Office would only be harmful. 
That the insurance industry is already faced with 
a ) the effects of inflation, 
increased taxation on life assurance offices, 
the effects of recent natural disasters, 
other legislative measures already in train or in prospect by the Government, e.g. the National Compensation Bill, National Superannuation Plan. 
That as taxpayers your petitioners are greatly concerned at the huge costs (far more than the $2m initial capital and loan funds which it is proposed will be allocated) of establishing an Australian Government Insurance Office. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the House will reject the Bill. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction confirm that the Department of Housing and Construction undertook early this year to effect renovations to the value of approximately $40,000 to one of the houses in the Glebe lands scheme? In view of the Government 's policy that Glebe lands properties would be available at low rental to low income earners, was this particular house also to be available at low rental? Was the intended tenant of this property a member of the Commonwealth Parliament? Why was work on the property discontinued after contracts had been given and renovations effected? What was the cost of the renovations actually completed by contractors? Does the Government intend to recommence and to complete renovations to this property? If so, will it be available at low rental? Does the Government intend this property to be available only to certain selected tenants? If so, on what basis will the selection be made? 

 - Senator McLaren made quite some play during his speech in alleging that the speech delivered by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was written for him by somebody else. Certainly nobody could accuse anybody of writing  Senator McLaren's  speeches for him. What we have just heard could have come only from  Senator McLaren.  I had the dubious privilege last year of speaking immediately after  Senator McLaren  in the Budget debate, so I have a fair recollection of what he said then. It was not necessary to listen quite so carefully this year because there was not a great deal of difference. Again this year we heard the great diatribe against the silvertails, the blue rinse set and the aristocracy.  Senator McLaren  this year was kind enough to tell us that he gets his information from television. If he thinks that they are the only people who are dissatisfied with the Government at present it is quite obvious that he does not watch  Four Corners  very often. 
It certainly is distorted. It is quite obvious that he does not know what the situation is in Australia today; that he does not know who is persecuting the workers and who is affected by this Government. Nobody would deny that quite a large proportion of higher income workers have been affected by the Government but only  Senator McLaren  could deny that the lower income earners have also been affected by this Government. Are they the people who are worried about house help or are they the ones who are worried about owning homes? Are they the ones who are worried about not going out so often or are they the ones who are worried about not having a job to go to? That is the reality of the Australian situation today. That is the reality that  Senator McLaren  refuses to face and that is the reality that this Government appears to refuse to face. One can only say that  Senator McLaren  will never learn. 
We can be thankful that the Government learns some things. This time last year  Senator McLaren  and the Government were vigorously defending the new tax on unearned income. The Government was denying that it was going to have any sort of effect on the availability of housing in the form of rental properties for Australian citizens. But just a week or so before this Budget came out the new Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan)  found it necessary to say at a conference in Sydney that there was a desperate shortage of rental accommodation for Australian citizens today, a shortage exacerbated by the fact that there is an even more disparate drop in the rate of home ownership in Australia today. 
Last year the Opposition emphasised that this sort of bigoted policy could lead only to harm for those who could not afford the effects of the policy. We can be thankful that the Government at least has decided to do away with this policy after only 12 months of its disastrous effect on Australian citizens. I am sure that if  Senator McLaren  had had his way the Government would still be pursuing that policy because on his admission tonight, on his own words tonight, as compared with what he said just 12 months ago, he at least has learnt nothing. 
The credibility of the Government is very much at stake. The blame lies, or attempts are made to put it, in various areas for lack of public and business confidence. Much emphasis is given to the need for public and business confidence. How can the public and how can business people have confidence in this Government? It does not take the Opposition, it does not take any enemies of the Government, to induce a lack of confidence. These people come and tell us that they lack confidence and they tell us why. The reasons are good and proper. 
There should be no greater lack of credibility for this Government than in the housing area. In years to come I believe that housing will be the thing for which this Government will have to answer. It is the thing that Australian citizens in years to come, and governments and oppositions in years to come, will look back on. Not so long ago, just a few months ago, an Australian Labor Party senator from my own State, Queensland, referred to the former Minister for Housing and Construction,  Mr Les  Johnson, as probably one of the greatest Housing Ministers this country has known. I suggest to the Senate that probably he is one of the worst.  His  record, on his own words and performance last year, was abysmal. Last September when the Housing Industry Association was saying that it had very real fears for the future of the housing industry in Australia  Mr Johnson  said that the fears were exaggerated. He said that estimates of current dwelling commencements appeared to be much lower than the estimates available to the Housing Industry Association and the evidence available to him would suggest. The Housing Industry Association persisted and prevailed upon  Mr Johnson  and the Government to meet it for discussions. Those discussions took place at the beginning of October last year. At the beginning of October last year figures were released by the Commonwealth Statistician which showed that current dwelling commencements were at a disastrous all-time low in the postwar contest. In that week  Mr Johnson  was still saying, on several occasions - 
He was still saying,  Senator Georges,  on several occasions, that the Housing Industry Association was exaggerating the situation, that there was no real problem and that the Government had matters in hand. But after the figures came out at the weekend after the conference was over  Mr Johnson  admitted that it was necessary to stimulate the home building industry. Less than a week after having been told this for many weeks he denied his former statements and did an about turn. The results were not quite good enough. There are more buildings being built now, I accept that, but there is still the problem of buyer resistance. 
The problem is easily seen when we see the sort of policies and the sort of costs that have been brought home to home buyers by this Government. We have a government which has brought us all time record levels of interest. In no area has the overall effect on the economy been more marked than in the building industry with the apparent flow on effects that it has on so many other industries. These days a young couple need to take a mortgage over 30 years. That is the normal period of a mortgage these days. A couple of years ago the normal mortgage was 20 years and that was long enough. But a comparison of what is involved in paying mortgages off is incredible. If we take a $20,000 mortgage, which is a modest mortgage these days considering the effects that inflation has had on the costs of home building, we see that in March 1974 the normal repayments that somebody being financed through a building society could be expected to pay was $167 a month. Only 6 months later, by September, because of the effects of this Government's last Budget, those repayments had risen to $202 a month for nothing extra except paying the penalty of this Government's disastrous economic foolishness. Young people have had to face the prospect of having to find an extra $37 a month for no extra goods. 
The credibility of this Government is very much at stake. We would like to draw heart from some of the things that the present Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  says. We would like to draw heart from his statement that there is a recovery now in train for private housing. The Government's record of predictions and its record of actions are notoriously inadequate. We only have to wait and see on that. There is still no indication that interest rates are going to come down. There is no indication that buyers are going to be better able to Pay- 
Overall we need to look at some of the concepts that have been presented to the Australian public over the last couple of weeks. We have had the concept put to us in relation to post office increases that the user pays. Before  Senator McAuliffe  leaps to his feet and suggests that this matter is not in the Budget I remind him that references to increased costs in this area were contained in the Budget Speech and some information was given about them. Nevertheless it is interesting to look at the concept. It is interesting to look at the integrity of the Government if it is going to pursue this type of argument. Is the user going to pay? What is the logical consequence of this concept applied to a few other areas? We come up with some rather interesting comparisons. Of course,  Senator McAuliffe,  the Labor senator from Queensland, had quite a bit to say on this subject last year when we were debating postal increases, and I will refer to that in just a minute.  Mr Hayden,  the Treasurer, said in his speech on 1 9 August that if the increased charges were not applied the costs they were to cover would have to be covered in some other way. The Government either would have to increase direct or indirect taxes or add to the deficit by printing money. According to  Mr Hayden,  that is something that the Government could not tolerate in the area of postal and telecommunication charges.  Senator McAuliffe  made some comments last year on the subject of user pays. I think it is interesting to note those comments. They are fully in line with all that the Government has said in the last couple of weeks and we should analyse their worth. I wish to quote from the Senate  Hansard  of 30 July last year at page 560.  Senator McAuliffe  said: 
I do not have to remind honourable senators that the principle that applies in any business is that those who require a service or use a service must be prepared to pay for it. For example - 
It is an interesting example- 
The chap who purchases and runs a luxury limousine knows that he has to pay for the extra petrol it uses. The same principle applies to the chap who enjoys the pleasure of travelling long distances in a motor car. 
I interpolate there that I do not think that  Senator McAuliffe  can travel a very long distance around Queensland; he would not find much pleasure in that.  Senator McAuliffe  continued: 
He knows that he has to foot the bill for the extra petrol that the car uses. The situation is no different with a government business. The simple truth- and Opposition senators have to face up to it- is that the people who use the service must pay for it. If they do not pay for a government service because they are not required to pay for it or they pay a tariff which is inadequate, the taxpayer must pay for that service. The service cannot be provided in any other way. 

 Senator McAuliffe repeated: 
A government business is no different from any other business. 
That is a fair sort of expansion of the statement that  Mr Hayden  made last week at a little less length. Further on in the same speech  Senator McAuliffe  said: 
I will show  Senator Durack  that his claim that these increases are inflationary is ridiculous. At present there are more than 100 000 deferred applications for telephones. One may well ask: Why so many? The answer is: Under-pricing for the service, ft has long been accepted in business as an historical fact that a heavy demand results from an underpricing for a service. If the price for the service was increased the number of applicants would be reduced; many applicants would feel that connection of the telephone was not completely necessary- perhaps desirable but not necessary. The only applicants remaining would be those who lodged applications as a result of need. Any applicant that has need as his basis will not reconsider when there is a movement one way or the other in the tariff charges. 
Those were the words of  Senator McAuliffe  last year. The mind boggles at the logic behind them. For a start, if we look at the analogy that he gave of the person who drives a luxury limousineSenator McAuliffe is fond of such emotive words, of suggesting that privilege and big business are the only ones involved in postal and telecommunications price increases- he puts a clear alternative. 
The fact is that in that area the consumer has an alternative. In the area of postage and telecommunications most users have no reasonable alternative so they have to cop what the Government gives them. They have to put up with it; they cannot take their business elsewhere. Have honourable senators ever tried complaining to the Post Office about its increased charges? What good does it do? Has any honourable senator ever managed to post a letter for less because he complained about the charges? Has anyone ever tried complaining about the Post Office service? I am not suggesting that it should be done all the time, but has anyone tried it? I have. It is a heartbreaking and soul-destroying exercise. One cannot take one's business elsewhere. Big business can take its business elsewhere in certain circumstances. Certain occupants of large cities can do so, but the needy cannot. The people who really need those services have no alternative and they cop it. 
It is not a question of whether one buys a piece of fillet steak, as  Senator McLaren  said, or a pound of pork sausages because the price of fillet steak has gone up to the point when it is beyond our reach. Only one service, one commodity, is available for purchase and one can either afford it or one cannot. I wonder whether  Senator McAuliffe  in his speech last year, when he said that the only applicants remaining would be those who lodged applications as a result of need and that any applicant that has need as his basis will not reconsider, was thinking about people who have a desperate need for that type of service and have no alternative. I am thinking of the disadvantaged, the needy, the invalided, the aged and the isolated. Those are the people who have no alternative and they are the very people who cannot stretch their budgets that little bit extra. I will say a little more about the actual effects of that in a moment. 
It is interesting to see how consistent the Government is on this concept. Let us look at the concept of user pays. Let us look at 2 items further on in  Mr Hayden  's Budget Speech. Air transport was the next item; I will come back to that. The item after that was rail transport. I wish to quote from pages 58 and 59 of the House of Representatives  Hansard  for 19 August.  Mr Hayden  said: 
A further $40m is being provided to the Commission as a subsidy to cover its estimated losses in 1975-76; the Tasmanian and non-metropolitan South Australian railways are expected to account for about 80 per cent of this loss. 
For the benefit of those who are not terribly quick on the uptake, 80 per cent of $40 m is $32m. Who is paying? That money is going to the users in South Australia and Tasmania, but who is paying? All Australians are paying. What are the alternatives that  Mr Hayden  gave to increased costs.  Mr Hayden  said: ..... the Government would either have to increase direct or indirect taxes, or add to the deficit by printing money. 
But he does not bring that point across. He gives 2 paragraphs in his speech to explaining how that $32m will be accounted for. The fact is that the general public will pay for the sake of consumers in 2 special areas and no justification is given in his speech for that. A person who wants to use the Post Office is slugged because those who need to use it do not have any alternative and have to pay a higher price. That is what the Treasurer knew in his cynicism. So much for the great principle of user pays. 
Do we hear any suggestions from the Government that the user should pay in the area of education? It would be interesting to take that concept through the Government's policies. Nobody suggests that the user pays in the area of education. Yet a very special and fairly small percentage of the community is catered to by the most expensive forms of education. The Government does not suggest the concept there and it would not need to do so. What about roads? We have an increase in the petrol excise apparently because the user should pay. What is the record of the Labor Government on the subject of expenditure on roads and the petrol tax? One assumes that the reasoning behind the petrol tax is that those who use the roads should pay for their building and their maintenance. What is the record of the Australian Labor Party? In 1970 and 1971 under a Liberal-Country Party Government 63 per cent of funds collected in petrol excise was spent on roads. 
In 1970-71 it was a Liberal-Country Party Government under which 63 per cent was spent on roads. In 1972 when he was the Leader of the Opposition  Mr Whitlam  undertook to return a greater proportion of that revenue to the States for expenditure on roads. What is the record? In 1974-75 he returned 53 per cent, which is the lowest figure on record that I can find. In 1975-76, on estimates, if the price of petrol rises by only 6c a gallon- nobody is quite sure but that is certainly the lowest figurethe return will drop to 52 per cent. So much for the user paying. 
The users are paying for the roads and they are paying subsidies to the Government in other areas. We could argue whether that is justified, but this Government has put up the principle of user paying as some sort of justification for its exorbitant increases in what should be a service area. In the 2 years 1974-75 and 1976-77 it is estimated that $2, 132m will be collected in fuel tax. On the Government's own estimate $1,1 59m will be spent on roads. That means that the user of the roads will be subsidising the Government to the extent of $973m. 
On its own record the Government has no credibility in this much vaunted concept. Of course it acts very selectively. It does not attempt to put the concept into any socially desirable context. It does not attempt to put it into the context of areas of need. It does so with other policies. It does so in the areas of welfare housing, pensions and so on. But it is not consistent. So let the Government at least be honest and say: 'This is a tax through which we wish to collect more money. We do not choose to say why there should be no subsidy in this essential area in which the Government has a monopoly. ' 
It really would be very interesting if the Labor Party achieved its objective of socialising industry, distribution, transport and exchange in Australia. The Government has a monopoly in certain parts of the communications area through the Australian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission. We see how much regard it has for the consumer. There is no explanation other than the spurious catch-phrase 'the user pays'. There is no reasonable justification. No attempt is made to answer to those people who have made so many protests on such good grounds. Many protests have come in to the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop).  He can admit that himself. The protests have come in to such an extent that it has been necessary for him to put out quite a few notes and public relations documents. 
The Government apparently does not care about the social consequences of the measures. It does not care about the financial burden which will be placed on voluntary organisations.  Senator McLaren  sought to slur people who work in voluntary organisations on the ground that some wealthy people are involved in this capacity. Of course, he does not think about things such as tuckshop committees, local senior citizen clubs and the local groups which work for people in their own areas. He does not refer in that breath to the Red Cross or the Salvation Army. He just uses the tactic which has become all too typical of the methods of this Government in selling its policies. He does not answer to the elderly, the migrants, the isolated and the sick to whom telecommunications and postage are so vital as a source of contact with the outside world. To isolate those people through their main source of contact when they seek to be independent is despicable. 
In the area of voluntary organisations, surely there is an obvious point. The point has been made to the Government many times. I refer to the effect the increased charges will have on the major revenue raising area for many charitiesChristmas cards. Members of the Government Party may react with a greater or lesser degree of sentiment on this subject, but they cannot deny some facts in relation to these Christmas cards. The Government cannot deny that large numbers of Christmas cards are sold every year, that most of them are posted and that an increasing proportion of the Christmas cards that have been purchased in Australia in recent years have been from charity groups. Of course, the group that comes immediately to mind is that known as Rehander, a group which is trying to assist disabled people- people who have lost the use of their limbs, usually because they are missingand whose whole income is from the sale of Christmas cards. The Government makes no attempt to answer. It can dismiss the matter. Instead we have notes on increased postal charges prepared by the Australian Postal Commission at the request of the Postmaster-General which contain this fascinating information: Typical charges will rise from 3c to 6c for the monthly newsletter of a small charitable organisation. This is a 100 per cent increase. 
Allow me to finish, please. The honourable senator has had his turn and undoubtedly he will have it again. He can say what he wishes to say here. There has been an increase from 4.5c to  lc  in the charge for the postage of a country newspaper which is invaluable in community terms to isolated people. That is an increase of 5 5 per cent. The cost of posting a medium weight magazine- whatever that is- has risen from 1 lc to 14c, an increase of 27 per cent. An increase of 27 per cent these days looks pretty rosy when one compares it with the 100 per cent and 50 per cent increases. The Government makes no attempt to justify the increases in this area. 
The Governmen t does not attempt to justify its Budget as a true social document. What of the people in the country? What of the effect that the charges will have on them?  Senator McAuliffe  and  Senator Keeffe  are fairly lucky. If they incur a debt they can be fairly sure that a proportion of their debtors are reasonably close to them and that if they choose they can walk to the place where payment has to be made and write a cheque or pay cash. 
They are becoming less and less able. It may be that we will see changes in policy as time goes on. The fact is that many country people have no choice. This is a major means of communication which they cannot avoid. One area must be mentioned in passing because my speaking time is running out. I refer to the matter which was passed over so glibly by the Government- air transport. The Government has an announced policy of trying to recover increasing proportions of the cost of operating air transport throughout Australia. At page 58 of Hansard  Mr Hayden  is reported as saying: 
The Government does not believe that the general tax-, payer should continue to subsidise air services. 
He went on to say that there would be increases in air navigation charges as a result of the Government's policy. The Government could argue the merits of that. It may be argued whether the general taxpayer should in fact continue to subsidise some areas. I do not think  Senator Keeffe  and  Senator McAuliffe  are aware of the effect that the Government's policy in this area has had on certain vital areas of life in their own State of Queensland. Air charter costs have risen steeply. The Government has increased or has taken action which has led to an increase in the cost of people in the outback having their mail delivered. People who live 300 miles from the nearest post office- who have to travel in a small car over those delightful roads over which  Senator McAuliffe  is so fond of travelling- have reached the stage where they cannot afford to have their mail delivered. That is just hard luck, according to the Government. 
Look at some of the consequences. The fact is that most of those people- certainly an increasing proportion of them- no longer can afford to send their children to boarding school. There is no local school which the children can attend; so they have to use correspondence courses. A large proportion of people in Queensland and certainly, I am sure, in other States who depend on correspondence courses to educate their children cannot afford to have the courses delivered any more. Did the Government think about that? Is the Government prepared to take that into account? Of course it is not. The situation has been pointed out, but the Government chooses to turn a blind eye. The reason, presumably, is that proportionately there are few people involved and anyway the Government does not think it can get their votes. 
Never mind about social desirability; never mind about that great social experiment upon which the Labor Party was going to embark after December 1972; never mind about policies which will really lead to the improvement of the Australian community. 'Let us look at the areas where the swinging voter is', says the Government, 'and let us spend lots of money there. Let us look to our own classes and our own privilege and spend lots of money there. Let us not look at thorny issues such as whether we should have people living in other than large cities, even only a few cities other than the capital cities. Let us not look at whether it is desirable to encourage people to live out of large urban communities. Let us look at only a few. Let us not take a balanced view. When we use phrases like 'the user pays' do not expect us to be consistent, much less to explain'. For those reasons I have pleasure in supporting the amendment moved by my Leader,  Senator Withers,  this afternoon. This Budget is one for which the Government will yet be called to account. This Budget is one which the Government cannot expect to sell just through spending money on public relations. The facts lie within the Budget, and the effect of it will be felt. Sooner or later this Government will not be able to dodge and weave any longer. 
Sooner or later it will be called to account for its words and its policies. 
-The export levy on coal has caused a great deal of alarm in Queensland, and for good reasons. I am only the second senator from Queensland to speak in this debate. It is unfortunate that the other senator from Queensland who spoke did not shed a little more light on the actual situation in Queensland. He chose to talk about other mining ventures and brought forward nothing that was of any assistance in considering Queensland's situation under this legislation. Indeed that honourable senator said that this legislation should have gone through without any debate. For a Queensland senator to have said that is quite deplorable. Either he has not been recently in touch with his own State or he has been unaware for some time of the role that the coal mining industry is playing in the development of Queensland. 
I do not find that to be altogether surprising. That honourable senator was the State Secretary of the Australian Labor Party in Queensland at the time when the Australian Labor Party was in power in that State and had a policy that all of Queensland's development was to be based upon agriculture. Prior to its defeat in 1957 the Labor Government in Queensland declared as its policy that it believed that the future of Queensland lay in primary production. It was only with the election of a Country- Liberal Party Government in 1957 that a deliberate policy of expanding industry and of opening up mining areas so far as was possible was embarked upon. The rest is history. 
Not so long ago- some 2 or 3 years ago- the great drought broke in Queensland. There had been a 16-year drought which had very serious effects upon the whole economy of the State. The reason why the Queensland economy did not collapse during the period of the drought was that concurrent with it, tremendous expansion was taking place in the mining industry, notably in the coal mining industry. 
The senator from Queensland who spoke earlier in the debate-  Senator Keeffe-  made a couple of statements which were so false that they must be contradicted. At one stage he said that 'none of the money from mining came back to Australia', and in the same breath he changed the word 'none' to 'very little'. He also made the statement that the extra revenue from this levy will be coming from an area which will not hurt the worker'. I suggest to the Senate and I urge upon the Government that this type of policy will have an extraordinarily severe effect upon the worker. The reverse policy whereby mining was encouraged, and encouraged to expand, therefore expanding the development of Queensland, has had a very marked effect on the standard of living of the worker in Queensland. 
We have to look a little beyond even the great mining towns that have developed over recent years- the Moranbahs, the Blackwater, the Dysarts- brand new towns- the Mouras and so on. The expansion of the coal mining towns has meant that many other provincial cities and towns in Queensland have had the opportunity for a far faster rate of growth and a far more solidly based growth than they would have had otherwise. Mackay, which is one of the fastest growing centres in Australia, receives no special Federal Government assistance to do so, which is in contrast to other areas. Mackay owes much of its expansion to the development of the coal basin in its hinterland. Rockhampton and Gladstone 2 towns in central Queensland which would have been in severe difficulties by now because of the collapse of the beef industry, which is also important in central Queensland- have seen unprecedented boom days. Gladstonewhich 10 years ago was a sleepy hollow in Queensland, a little town which was decaying and, some said, dying- is now a growing town of about 20 000 people. It is a bustling, vital centre of industry which is intextricably linked with the development of the coal fields in central Queensland and in its hinterland. The whole story of the coal industry is not just how many tons of coal we export and how much profit is made. Another important part of the story that must be told is the effect that the coal industry has on local industries and the effect that the prior input into that development has upon the economies about it. 
The problem with this levy, apart from the fact that it sets a precedent for setting export levies on a product which is profitable, is the deterrent effect it will have upon new companies and the limiting effect it will have upon future capital investment in this industry. We hear much criticism of the multi-national companies. Where are all those other companies that the Government wishes to bring in? The plans for Queensland which have been announced, which have been costed in detail but which have now been shelved, would have brought hundreds of millions of dollars into our State in just the pure infrastructure of the towns that would have been constructed. I must take  Senator Keeffe  to task on his statement about profits leaving Australia. So long as Australian companies are reluctant to develop these areas- not all of them are reluctant; there are some Australian companies as well as international companies involved in these areas- we must choose either to have no development, or limited development, or we must face the fact that the enormous sort of capital investment that is involved deserves some return. Unlike  Senator Keeffe,  I am not frightened of the word 'profit'. It has been a great stimulus to the development of this country. I will agree that there are some limits on how far we can allow money to be taken out of the country; but I do not believe that the Government has established that case. It has established that only a minor amount of revenue will accrue to the Government to the benefit of the worker, to whom  Senator Keeffe  referred, but it has had a salutary effect in deterring further mining expansion in my State, including further projects that were not costed in detail- that did not reach that stage- that we do not know about. 
Queensland has an enormous coal basin; it has enormous resources; it has enormous potential for development. It is worth pointing out I think, that the expansion of the coal mining industry, especially in recent years, has been particularly important in Queensland's development when one considers it alongside the unfortunate decline of the beef industry. The beef industry has been part of the basis of the development of the whole of Queensland. As I have said before in the Senate, Queensland has the most decentralised pattern of development of any State in Australia and we are proud of it. From my visits to many of these smaller mining towns and some of the longer established towns it is my conclusion that there are an increasing number of Australians, and certainly Queenslanders, who wish to live in the smaller community; who do not wish to be forced to live in the capital city; who do not wish to see all industries centred in just a few huge centres; and who want the advantages of the smaller community. The development of mining has enabled this process to continue while some of our agriculture has been in decline. 
I should like to mention a couple of figures in this regard. In 1972 for example, the export value of beef from Queensland was $279m. In 1974-75, only 2 years later, it had almost halved-it dropped by $ 133.8m to only $ 146.2 m. That sudden decline has had its effect on decentralisation in Queensland. It has had its effect on our development pattern. Many local government authorities are experiencing difficulties with rate collection, for example. But over the same period we have had a continued input in the mining industry- over a period of some seven or eight years the input on infrastructure alone for towns has been in excess of $500m. It has been that sort of expenditure expansion which has helped expand Queensland and which has stopped any slipping back over the last couple of years when our beef industry has experienced its particular problems. 
I think some facts should be stated on this input. I said earlier that not all the companies involved are multi-nationals, although a couple of them are. Some of the actual input into my State must be detailed. Blackwater, which has been built by 3 mining companies- Utah Development Company, the multi-national, Thiess Bros, and Queensland Coal Mining Co. Ltd, a subsidiary of the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Ltd- is one of the first towns which has expanded. BHP has put nearly $0.6m into this town in providing water and sewerage for a town which previously had a population of 25 and now has a population in excess of 4000. This company's share alone of the cost for the town was $2. 1 95m. Recently it spent an extra $.067m. In housing, which is a really crucial area, Queensland Coal Mining has spent $2.668m- it has constructed 136 houses and also provides housing for single employees. Housing alone is an area of which the Government should take note. The problems of the housing industry today are all too apparent. The building of whole towns in Queensland over the last couple of years has required tremendous effort from our construction industry and has surely meant that many hundreds, if not thousands, of Queensland workers are still in jobs in that industry who would have been thrown out of work had it not been for the input of that capital which the Government finds so distasteful. 
It has been the policy of the Queensland Government that, when mining companies go in, take up a lease and start expanding an area, they are required to make heavy investments into the further infrastructure associated with the whole town and the whole industry. In Blackwater, Queensland Coal Mining has had to spend $. 1 97m on roads. That expenditure is common to all mining companies which go into an area. Further expenditure and further types of development with a far ranging effect on other industries involve, of course, the development of ports and railways, and a number of companies have had that responsibility. 
Thiess Peabody Mitsui, which employs 1000 men at Moura, a town very close to Biloela and which has had an effect on the Biloela economy, spent a total of $.721m on infrastructure $.077m on power and water and $0,382 m on the town itself. The company's contribution in 1974 towards the development of railways and ports, which are of benefit to all Queenslanders and all industries, was $0.262m. This is quite apart from money that it spent in developing its own mines. I am afraid,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  that in the time available to me I was not able to get the information on what that company, Thiess Peabody Mitsui, has spent on Blackwater but it has made a similar contribution to that of Queensland Coal Mining and Utah. 
Then we come to Utah, the  bete noire  of our Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  Utah has played a major role in the development of Queensland and I just wish that more of its critics would go to Queensland and see what Utah has done. It has built 2 modern towns completely from scratch- Moranbah and Dysart. Dysart is still in a stage of rapid expansion- it has not reached its limit of expansion by any means. Moranbah, which is still expanding, but at a slower rate than Dysart, is a completely new town, started only 5 years ago. Where there was nobody living, there are now almost 4000 people. Moranbah is a model town that needs to be seen- it is a model of planning in Australia into which Utah has poured huge sums of money. Utah has not spared expense on the environment, that issue which concerns  Senator Keeffe  so much in relation to the mining industry. It is one of the most pleasant towns that you will ever see. A community centre has been provided, provision has been made for church facilities, a swimming pool, sporting grounds, generous park grounds, good roads and lighting. It is a town where people are happy to live, so long as they are also allowed to work. 
When  Senator Keeffe  says that the extra revenue is coming from an area that will not hurt the worker, he should take into account that the development of towns like Moranbah has given the Queensland worker a way of life that many thousands of them obviously desire. Although it is a virtually brand new town it does not show the same degree of social instability that new mining towns normally do. From the people I have talked to there- mainly young family people- it is quite clear that they want to stay in Moranbah. They are not there to make their fast buck and then move on to somewhere else. There is more money than they can spend in 
Moranbah, one of the reasons being that for the very pleasant homes that are provided for them by Utah they spend only $5 a week in rent compared with an average weekly wage last year of $264. A lot of money is available to be spent in Moranbah by the workers and a lot of money is being spent by those workers in other places. The development of this area has enabled so many of those workers, as they so freely state, to buy seaside homes near Mackay on the coast, to plan for retirement, to have investments, and to become the little capitalists that this Government hates to see the worker become. 
Dysart, which commenced occupation only last year, now has a permanent population of 1 500 and that population will expand rapidly. It is another town which is linked up very closely with the development of Mackay. In building and expanding these towns, local expertise and skills have been used, lt has been of benefit to industry in Mackay that its planners, its architects, its designers, as well as its retailers, have been involved in the development of these towns. As I said before, Blackwater- a town which had a population of only 25 some eight or nine years ago- now has a population in excess of 4000. The total population of the MoranbahDysart region- the area with which Utah has been involved- has increased from 300 to 8000. There are real benefits to Queensland in terms of decentralisation just in that region. There are also of course, the many flow-on benefits to other towns which are part of our decentralisation pattern. I mentioned before that the average weekly wage paid by the Utah Development Co. last year was $264. lt is projected that in 1975-76 miners will be earning in the income range of $1 1,000 to $21,000 per annum. It is difficult to estimate the figure because one is not sure just how high wages will go. 
Utah has spent $240m on the infrastructure of these towns which is 55 per cent of its total investment. It has not been just a case of buying the huge draglines and bringing them in, or of buying the massive equipment which is involved and bringing that in- the company has put a very high and extremely fair proportion of its investment into the actual life style of its employees and provided a good quality life for them. The company has spent $20m on power and water and $20m on its towns. As I said before, the company receives a rental of only $5 per house per week. On railways and ports it has spent $200m. It has developed Hay Point, a port a little to the south of Mackay. It is Utah's total responsibility. Utah pays all the running costs and it staffs the port. There is absolutely no liability on any other authority to maintain that port. That is just a little of the contribution which mining has made in Queensland. 
There is a very real fear in the Queensland mining industry that only the real giants will survive. There is a fear of what is in store. We cannot get the sort of investment we need either from within Australia or without if the Government pursues a policy of bashing mining companies. Not only have overseas companies been affected but also Australian companies. The rationale of this sort of policy completely escapes me. We are told that overseas companies are taking money out of Australia and that they should be stopped. Apparently it has not occurred to the Government that this affects the attitude of the Australian investor and of the Australian company presently here which would like to expand its activities. It does not occur to the Government that people in Australia are as likely to bc affected as are people overseas by this sort of policy and to be as strongly dissuaded. 
We will not vote against the Bills. This is the Government's policy and these are the Government's Bills. So be it on the Government's head. In particular, as to the effect which we will see in Queensland, be that also on the Government's head. Let us have no more of the nonsense which was advanced not very successfully by the Australian Labor Party senator from Queensland. Let us have no more of these bland criticisms which do not look at the facts. Personally, I am a little bit weary of them, although I am not out of patience with them yet. It is fashionable to be Queensland bashers, apparently, these days, and to make all manner of ill-informed comments which have nothing to do with the facts. 
Yes. The activities of that particular Queensland senator in advancing his State's cause are not notable. We want a government which will look fairly at the development of all Australia. I am not in a position to list the relative merits or effects of this legislation on Queensland as against New South Wales but. it distresses me a little to hear an honourable senator from Tasmania pontificating on the Queensland industry and demonstrating throughout his speech that he has no knowledge of the details of the industry there. In fact, he just does not care. 
I am talking about the Queensland section of the industry. One must look at it that way. The fact is that the Queensland Government has put a great deal of effort into the development of the mining industry in Queensland. It has put certain very hard conditions and restrictions on mining and it has demanded an input from the mining industry in terms of ports, roads and railways which also benefit many other industries in Queensland. The Queensland situation has been a special area of development; it can be looked at in those terms. 
However, as I was saying, I am not in a position to assess the relative effects which this legislation will have on Queensland versus New South Wales or any other area. Given the fact that we hear so much about the lack of business confidence and about the state of uncertainty in the mining industry, it is a matter of great surprise to me that the Government could produce a policy as insane as this. There has been no real justification given for it, not even in money terms. There has been no proof that it is needed. There has been nothing but a greedy grab at somebody else's cake, without any attempt at justice or even rationalisation. 
I crave the indulgence of the Senate for a few minutes. This is the first occasion on which I have spoken in the debate on the motion that the Senate do now adjourn, but I feel obliged to seek this opportunity to put on record a few facts in relation to some statements which have appeared in the newspapers over the last couple of days on the subject of the Queensland Government and the women of Queensland. Glaring headlines were given in the newspapers yesterday and more coverage was given again today to a statement by Miss Elizabeth Reid, the former adviser of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on women 's affairs. In commenting on a statement by the Premier of Queensland,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  on 
Monday dealing with the real social problems in Australia and the world at the moment, she said: 
It is a pity that they are being written off by people who are not prepared to acknowledge the contribution of women. 
I quoted from a report in the  Courier-Mail.  That report was the same as the report in every other newspaper. Miss Reid stated also that  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  had not enabled women to hold high places or high office under the policies of the National-Liberal Government in Queensland. As a senator for Queensland I have become rather accustomed to people using Queensland as the Aunt Sally of Australian politics. If someone wants to make a rude remark about somebody it is fashionable to pick on Queensland or some personality from that State. 
-Well, a less than complimentary remark. 
I thought that phrase might have been a little involved, but if  Senator Poyser  prefers it I will use it. 
Apparently the truth irritates, but in this case the truth must be put on record. Miss Reid could not have been worse informed and could not have given the Australian public a worse picture of the Queensland Government in this area. As I said, I am accustomed to people making statements about Queensland which are either devoid of fact or so far from the fact as to be barely recognisable. I expected better from Miss Reid. After all, this is her subject. What is going on in the various States and what various State governments are doing is her business. If she has made the activity of the Queensland Government in the area of legislation on women her business, she did not reveal it in the Press statements that appeared Australia wide yesterday and today. 
In 1973 the Minister for Justice in Queensland,  Mr Bill  Knox, set up a Commission of Inquiry into the Status of Women. It was purely his initiative. While many women welcomed it, it was not in response to any specific pressure or request from women or from any group within the community. It was some far-sightedness on the part of a Minister who has shown similar farsightedness in other legislative areas, particularly consumer affairs. This commission of inquiry was asked to recommend to the State Government areas in which legislation or policy initiatives were needed, which would combat any complaint based on fact about disadvantage to women in Queensland, insofar as the State Government is capable of legislating. That commission had 4 members- 2 men and 2 women. The report was given to the State Government towards the end of 1974. As an election promise in the 1974 Queensland State election campaign  Mr Knox  stated that the recommendations of that commission of inquiry would be implemented. A number have been; others are in the process. 
For the record, I will state the initiatives that the Queensland Government has taken this year to implement some of the recommendations. One of the most controversial, probably so far as the public and the Parliament were concerned, but which was carried by an overwhelming majority, was a Bill to ensure that women are not required to state their marital status on legal documents. I do not want to spend a great deal of time explaining why these things are necessary. I shall take it as implicit that the ladies and gentlemen of this chamber realise the significance and the great importance of that Bill to women. 
In Queensland women have served on juries for a number of years, but they were able to claim certain special exemptions. Generally, they did not serve in the same numbers that men did. This year the differences in conditions of service on juries were abolished. Women in Queensland serve on juries, in response to their stated desire, on exactly the same terms as men. Since that legislation was passed there have already been several juries in Queensland comprised entirely of women. 
In its election promises the Government also committed itself to a policy of ensuring that women would be appointed to all Government boards and advisory bodies, wherever there is a woman in the State who is capable of contributing to such a board or such a body. So much for Miss Reid 's statement about reluctance to have women in high places. A woman has already been appointed  Chairman  of the Consumer Affairs Council. Consumer affairs is an area in which women are particularly involved since they are major consumers on behalf of the families in our society. 
More recently the Government took another initiative which was not a recommendation of that commission of inquiry but which was a very important one and one which has been welcomed by all women. In the 1975 Budget  Sir Gordon  Chalk, the State Treasurer, promised the elimination of gift and death duties on the passage of assets or gifts from spouse to spouse. The area of estate duty has been one which has been particularly cruel to women. Its implementation has shown the poor recognition that previous governments have given to the economic status of women in our community. Queensland is the State which leads the way there and recognises that in that area some very simple justice is due to women. 
Probably one of the most important initiatives, in my opinion, and one which refutes Miss Reid, was the setting up by the Government- again as a direct result of a specific recommendation of the Commission of Inquiry into the Status of Women- of a body called the Council of Queensland Women. It is the principal advisory body to the Government on issues as they affect the women of the community. The advice that comes from this Council to the Government can come either because the Government has requested advice in a particular area or because the Council, in its own wisdom, deemed that there was an area which it should investigate and on which it should make recommendations to the Government. There is an important difference between this Council and the similar body in New South Wales- namely, in Queensland that group can initiate areas in which it believes the Government needs advice. It does not wait for the Premier or anybody else to become aware that they may need advice. These women work with the State Government to advise it and they are not therefore, as somebody might suggest, lackeys of a National Country Party-Liberal government. On the contrary, when the Government moved to set up this Council it invited any women of Queensland who were interested to serve on the Council and, who thought they may have qualifications to assist the Council's deliberations, to nominate themselves. 
The Government did not select those women whose opinions it knew would conveniently fit in with its own opinions. It did not require that groups should nominate the women. It recognised that there are many women in the community who have much which is worthwhile to contribute and who have opinions which are valuable, particularly in the area ofthe needs of the family in our community and who do not necessarily, as a direct result of those commitments, have the time to become heavily involved in community groups. From the many hundreds of women who nominated themselves the State Government made a choice. In my opinion it has made a quite successful attempt to get together a combination of individuals in employment, the professions, the arts, politics, community and welfare activities and women who just occupy the traditional role of homemaker. It sought a cross-section of political and social opinion. It sought to ensure that women from all parts of the State were represented on that Council, which is particularly important in a State such as Queensland where size and distances can invoke very particular problems for special regions of the State. I do not propose to give all the names of the women on the Council because I do not have all the individual names. Although the women were not nominated by groups it is interesting to look at the sort of groups to which the women who are now on that Council belong. I want to make it clear that the Government has kept faith with its intention to have a cross-section of political and social opinion. 
With the indulgence of the Senate I shall read very quickly a list of organisations which have members on the Council, although they are not in the capacity of representing their organisations. There is the State  President  of the Liberal Women's Council. There is a woman from the National Party State Executive. There is a member of the Queensland Central Executive of the Australian Labor Party. There are local government aldermen and the  Deputy  Mayor of a major provincial city who is also a senior social worker. There are women from the Queensland Country Women's Association and from the National Council of Women. There is the  Chairman  of the International Women's Year United Nations Association Committee. There is the  President  of the Queensland Status of Women Committee. There is a representative from the Women's Employment Committee. There is the Vice  President  of the Federated Clerks Union, who is also a member of the National Executive of the Federated Clerks Union. There is a member of the Regional Council for Social Development. There is the matron of a major provincial city hospital. There are representatives of the Queensland Health Education Council, the National Trust and the Keep Australia Beautiful Council. 
I am afraid that it is not in a form which I can incorporate. I am sure that  Senator Poyser,  along with all his colleagues, is sufficiently interested in the subject to bear with it for a couple of minutes. There are representatives from the Queensland Council for the Arts, Home Management Advisory Service and the 
Pregnancy Help organisation. There are representatives from the Business and Professional Women's Club, Quota Clubs, the College of Ophthalmologists, the Good Shepherd Lodge, and the Girl Guides. There is also the  President  of the Queensland Ladies Jockeys Association. I am really sorry that I bore the Labor senator from Victoria. It was possibly to be anticipated. The truth hurts in some cases and raises a noise and an objection. It is clear from  Senator Poyser's  own words that the monopoly of ignorance on this subject does not lie, as claimed by Miss Reid, with the Queensland. Premier. There is a point there which should be taken by this Government. 
I have never previously commented on Miss Reid's appointment because frankly I wished her luck. I hoped that she would succeed in her job and that the women of Australian would reap some benefit from it, but I was critical of the administrative tactics of the Government in this type of appointment. One of the reasons that I think some women in the community have criticised Miss Reid, sometimes unfairly, is that they feared that one person's opinion was to be foisted on all women in Australia. Women have a characteristic in common with the community at large. Their opinions differ widely on the same subjects. They have different aspirations and they have different abilities. They feared in this appointment that one person's opinion would be foisted upon them. I think this is what lies beyond the sort of publicity the subject has received over the last few days. 
I am not saying that Miss Reid has necessarily tried to do that but I contrast it with the very genuine attempts by the Queensland Government to try to gather together the opinion of women in Queensland in a way which would benefit all women in Queensland. There has been no objection to the composition of that Council of Queensland Women. It has been welcomed by women of all groups and of all political persuasions in Queensland. It is sad that the nonsense to which we have been subjected through the Press over the last couple of days ever got into print. It is sad that the Press did not take the trouble to find out, if it did not know in advance, what was the state of affairs in Queensland.  Mr President,  I thank the Senate for its indulgence. 
asked the Special Minister of 
State, upon notice: 
How many former Australian Labor Party Government Office-holders are in receipt of benefits and payments from the Australian Government. 
2 ) What are their names. 
What is the nature of the benefits and payments. 
What is the amount of payment and benefit received by each person. 
For how long did each of them hold the office which entitles them to the benefits and payments. 
On which dates did each of them cease to be members of the Commonwealth Parliament. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In the light of the Prime Minister's statement yesterday that he had dismissed 2 Ministers for misleading Parliament, how does the Government intend to restore its credibility in the eyes of the Parliament and the public? Does the Leader of the Government in the Senate accept that the Prime Minister did not take any action against these Ministers until newspapers had managed to prove that they were not telling the truth some weeks or months after serious doubts had been publicly raised with respect to those Ministers' integrity? Will the Government give consideration to issuing guidelines on the subject so that Parliament and the public can have some means of judging when members of the Government are telling the truth? 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. It follows a question asked of him earlier by  Senator Wright.  As the Government has 21 Bills on which a double dissolution is available to it, is the real reason the Government will not face a poll of both Houses on those bills that it is afraid of the judgment of the people? 
I have sat in the Senate chamber for the last halfhour and listened to  Senator Walsh's  contribution to the debate. It is quite normal, of course, for senators to sit in the chamber and listen to the remarks of the  speaker  who precedes them because there is always the possibility that something will be said in that speech which needs to be replied to, which needs to be debated. Instead we have spent most of the last half-hour listening to  Senator Walsh  wander through his own particular garden of political memories. There is nothing in his speech which is worth answering. However, there is one point on which I feel a personal constraint to comment.  Senator Walsh,  along with other Government senators, made reference to rumours about dissidents who do not want to take this course of action and who have been pulled into some sort of 'line' by the Liberal Party. I reject that statement absolutely and utterly, as does every member of the Opposition. It is well known that the decision in our Party room last week was a unanimous one and that nobody was leant on, nor has anybody been leant on since then. Nevertheless, the Government keeps these stories going and one may well wonder, with the experiences that I have had over the last couple of days, where the stories originate. Apparently, the Government clutches at these straws in the hope that somebody on the Opposition side will change his or her mind and weaken. The Government wastes its time. It could do better than to put up  Senator Walsh  to lecture members ofthe Opposition in the Senate. 
There is another comment I want to make on a speech which has been made in this debate. I refer to the contribution made by  Senator Hall.  I have heard  Senator Hall  debate liberalism on many occasions. There have been a good number of occasions when I thought that  Senator Hall  contributed something which was of worth to the debate on the political philosophy of liberalism. But today  Senator Hall  has shown that his actions will go rather differently to his words. He has espoused principles which have supported federalism in the past. He has claimed to espouse principles which support a free enterprise system. Today he has shown himself as somebody who will vote for a government which is committed to centralised government, and which is committed to destroying the private enterprise system and replacing it with a socialist system. He has gone against the spirit and the letter of his words in the Senate last July when he made the statement that he believed that the Opposition should adjourn the Senate until 1 January, the intention obviously being that any such lengthy adjournment would force the Government to the people. Today he has his opportunity to vote. One ofthe great issues of this debate today, of the motion and of the amendment is that issue on which  Senator Hall  spoke a few months ago. He has turned a complete somersault. He goes against everything he said then and he will vote with a party whose principles and policies are against what  Senator Hall  has always claimed to represent. 
I think that it would be worth while at this stage if we had a look at the wording of the motion very briefly, so that we can return to the subject which  Senator Walsh  took us so far from. The motion that was moved and passed in the House of Representatives yesterday expressed the sentiment that the reasons given in the Senate resolution- that was our resolution of last week- first, were not contemplated within the terms of the Constitution and, second, were contrary to established constitutional convention. There has been much in print and much said today and yesterday which explodes that contention of the Government. Nevertheless it is worth pointing out that that is the message we are debating and to which an amendment has been moved. I feel that I ought to contrast the statements of certain members of the present Government when they were then in Opposition over a period of time to what they say now. Of course, we have the well-known 1970 statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  which contrasts so sharply with that motion which he moved yesterday. I quote from page 465 of the House of Representatives  Hansard of 25  August 1970, the quote that we have become familiar with but which the whole of the Australian public has to know, understand and put in the context of the present debate as well as putting it alongside the Prime Minister's present comments. As the then Leader of the Opposition he said: 
Let me make it clear at the outset that our opposition - 
That is the Australian Labor Party's opposition-  to this Budget is no mere formality. We intend to press our opposition by all available means on all related measures in both Houses. If the motion is defeated, we- 
That is again the Australian Labor Party-  will vote against the Bills here and in the Senate. Our purpose is to destroy this Budget and to destroy the Government which has sponsored it. 
They were the Prime Minister's words in 1 970. 
Then, of course, we had the words from the then  Senator Murphy  in the debate in the Senate as he led in the debate for so many honourable senators who sit opposite and who decry the Senate 's power at this point of time. After many divisions on different sections of the Bill, which the Opposition had opposed, the then Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Murphy,  the man who led honourable senators opposite, said in the Third Reading debate, as reported on page 2030 of Senate  Hansard of  3 November 1970: 
I simply want to say that in accordance with what we indicated earlier, we propose to vote against the third reading of this Appropriation Bill as an indication of our complete and utter rejection of the Budget. 
That was then the Australian Labor Party's stated intention as it pursued that course behind the then Leader of the Labor Party and Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, the then  Senator Murphy.  It was their intention to defeat the Government and force it to the people. Seventeen senators who vote in the Senate currently voted with the Labor Party behind  Senator Murphy  in following that intention of 1 970. 
We have also had quite a bit of comment about constitutional conventions. I refer again to a statement of  Senator Murphy  in June 1970. He said: 
The Australian Labor Party has acted consistently in accordance with the tradition that we will oppose in the Senate any tax or money Bill or other financial measure wherever necessary to carry out our principles and policies. The Opposition - 
That is the then Labor Opposition-  has done this over the years and in order to illustrate the tradition which has been established, with the concurrence of honourable senators - 
The then  Senator Murphy  went on to seek the leave of the Senate to incorporate in  Hansard  a list of the financial measures which the present Government voted against when it was in Opposition. A list of 1 68 measures was entered into the Hansard record in June 1970. It was a list of the financial Bills that the Australian Labor Party voted against in the Senate when it was in Opposition. It is interesting to note the words of the then  Senator Murphy.  He said: 
. in order to illustrate the tradition which has been established - 
It was a tradition of opposing money Bills and voting against them in the Senate which the then  Senator Murphy  claimed that he and the Labor Party had set. 
What are the more recent comments of the Government both in the House of Representatives and in the Senate? Yesterday in the House of Representatives the Prime Minister made many statements in a very long speech. Time does not enable me to state all the points that I think should be debated in the Senate, but I shall mention some of them. I shall bring to the attention of the Senate the words that he used to frame the challenge that the Labor Party is now putting to the Senate and to the Opposition. He said: 
The message from the Senate on the Bills which appropriate the moneys for the ordinary annual services of government is a direct challenge by the Senate to the authority of the House of Representatives. 
A couple of minutes later in the same speech he said: 
We as the elected Government of Australia- the Government solely because the people gave us a majority in this House- must now so conduct ourselves that this act of aggression by the Senate shall never again be attempted. 
The Prime Minister has quite clearly, over the last few days, set himself to the task of destroying an important and a deliberate power of the Senate, a power which the Labor Party enjoyed to the full when it was in Opposition, but which now makes its members cringe, because they fear not the power but the consequences of the power, the fact that they will have to face the ultimate holders of authority and power in our political system- the people, the electors of Australia. 
I was interested today to hear the statement of the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Wriedt,  when questioned on the matter of the Senate rejecting or voting against the Appropriation Bills. He said that it was 'true that it is a matter of political judgment at the time that the decision is taken'. He rejected the idea that it was any sort of constitutional affront. He, the Labor Party Leader in the Senate, rejected the argument that the Senate did not have the constitutional power and said quite clearly that it is a matter 'of political judgment at the time that the decision is taken'. Times have changed, apparently, because the political judgment of the Labor Party when it was in Opposition has gone not just to the other extreme but to denying absolutely a point of view that it took consistently when it was in Opposition. 
Some reference has been made during the debate to a statement which was released yesterday and which appeared in the newspapers today by a former Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies. I must, just to pay due respect to the gentleman, refer very briefly to  Senator Walsh's  comment on how that statement came to be made. Honourable senators will remember that  Senator Walsh,  when speaking immediately before me, said several times that  Sir Robert  had been dragged out of the cobwebs yesterday'. It was never my privilege to serve in Parliament under  Sir Robert  Menzies, but I was a member of the Liberal Party of Australia when he was its Parliamentary Leader and I did meet him on some occasions. I was then very actively interested in what was happening in the Parliament, so I know a little- certainly I know as much as  Senator Walsh  does- about  Sir Robert  Menzies as a man and as a Prime Minister. I doubt very much from what I know that anybody could, even now, drag  Sir Robert  Menzies against his will into making the sort of statement that he did yesterday. He is obviously his own man and has been in his political life and in all the time of his private life. 
I do not want to take up my speaking time in reiterating the statement of  Sir Robert.  Nevertheless I wholly endorse it. I would like the statement and the arguments contained in it to be included as part of my speech- not, but of course, accredited to me. Therefore I seek the leave of the Senate to have the text of  Sir Robert's  statement incorporated in  Hansard  and I seek leave to table the document. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  Order!  Senator Martin  has sought leave to have the document incorporated in  Hansard.  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
STATEMENT BY SIR ROBERT MENZIES 
As is well known, I have, for a long time abstained from entering into any current political controversy. But the circumstances today are such as to compel me to break that silence. For, quite simply, I think more nonsense is being talked about the constitutional position ofthe Senate than I can comfortably listen to, or read. 
Powers of the Senate 
If we desire to know what are the powers of the Senate over money Bills, we find them expressly set out in the constitution. The draftsmen of the constitution included these provisions because they knew (and this is a matter of historical fact) that the smaller states Le. smaller in population, would not vote for federation unless they have some protection given to them in the senate and they got it. And they still have it. The relevant provisions of section S3 are as follows: the Senate may not amend proposed laws imposing taxation, or proposed laws appropriating revenue or monies for the ordinary annual services of the government. 'and except as provided in this section, the Senate shall have equal power with the House of Representatives in respect of all proposed laws.' 
Now these provisions, which are the material ones, establish quite plainly that, while the Senate may not itself amend what we call 'Money Bills', it can pass them, or reject them, because these are the powers of the House of Representatives in respect of the same measures. 
Let me repeat, the Senate may not amend these measures, but it may reject them, or, of course, in the ordinary course of debate, it may adjourn them. 
It would be absurd to suppose that the draftsmen of the constitution conferred these powers on the Senate with a mental reservation that they should never be exercised. 
Now, nobody has any doubts about this legal position.  Mr Whitlam  had no doubt about it when he was leader of the Opposition, nor did  Senator Murphy,  as he then was, when he asked the DLP Senators to join with Labor in throwing out a financial measure. All that has happened is that  Mr Whitlam  is now Prime Minister and, as I know from experience, Prime Ministers become a little frustrated if the Senate carries a vote against them. But this does not settle the arguments of constitutionality. The constitutions meaning does not change according to the direction from which  Mr Whitlam  and his Ministers look at it. 
Now let me go on from there. 1 do not believe that the Senate ought as a matter of political judgment, to exercise its powers in every case. 1 think that in the interests of stability of Government it would be wrong for the Senate, for example, to reject a supply for the sole reason that it did not like the financial measures and had the power to reject them. 
Everything depends on the circumstances. For a Government, fresh from the people, with a victory to be challenged in the Senate under section S3, would be, in my opinion, wrong. Not illegal, no, but politically wrong. 
But these are not the circumstances today. The Government has, in the last 12 months, itself put up a record of unconstitutionality and, if it is not too strong a word, misconduct ona variety of occasions. 
On one occasion, it concerned  Dr Cairns,  who was put out for not accurately informing the Parliament, on a recent occasion, it was  Mr Connor  (so senior a Minister, as Cairns was, as to have acted in the highest Ministerial capacity). Connor has gone because, on the Prime Ministers own statement, he misled the House. And then there is the not to be forgotten incident of the executive council meeting at which the Prime Minister was present, and at which the then Attorney General gave a ' kerbstone ' opinion. 
At that meeting, the executive council, the Governor General not being present, authorised the borrowing of a sum of so huge a description that it would far exceed all the borrowings ever made by the Commonwealth in 75 years. It was to be done through obscure and unorthodox channels. 
It was to be a borrowing for 20 years. It was to be a huge borrowing in which the sum received by the Commonwealth from the lenders was 95!6 in 100, but the total of 100 had to be repaid at compound interest! 
This executive council decision was scandalous. It was clearly and unblushingly designed to escape the obligation in the constitution to go to the loan council under the financial agreement for approval. 
True, it thought it expedient to call the borrowing one for, temporary purpose': but a first year student would laugh at this as a prescription on the loan to which I have referred. lt was a disreputable incident. It was designed to evade the constitutional obligations of the Commonwealth. 
Now, you cannot add these things together and say that the Senate ought to accept them with complacency. This, if there ever was an occasion, was one when the Senate ought to have exercised its undisputed right to defer or reject financial measures involved in the Budget. 
All these things are so simple to anybody who (like myself) has been both legally and politically familiar with the constitution and its workings that I have been astonished to discover that the Opposition is now being treated, not as a body authorised to check malpractice by the Government but, as itself, guilty of violating and defying the constitution! 1 cannot imagine that any competent lawyer would agree wilh this view. But a lot of people will, if it is sufficiently pushed into them by a variety of people in the Government, aided and abetted by some elements in the media. 
Finally, and I would say this with unfaigned respect for the Vice Regal office, I think it would be a singular piece of impertinence on the part of the Prime Minister to go to the Governor General, whose reputation is high, and who understands these things very well, and ask him for a premature 'Half Senate' election, calculated and designed, hopefully, because of the recent legislation about Senators from the Capital Territory and Northern Territory, to give the Government control of the Senate for a month or two, in which time, of course, all their legislation which now has been attacked in the Senate, could be carried, with permanent (and I think damaging) effects on the Australian political structure. To offer advice to the Governor General on the lines that have been hinted at would, I think, be both improper and insulting. There is no legal principle that permits a wrong doing to profit from his own actions. 
ROBERT MENZIES, Melbourne, 2 1 October 1 975 
-Mr Acting  Deputy President,  I could not hear you very clearly because of the noise that was coming from the other side when you spoke. I did seek leave also to table the document. May I take it that I have been granted leave on both counts? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Yes. 
Thank you. In fact, of course, this great debate is really not a constitutional one because it was conceded long ago, and it was conceded specifically today in the Senate by the Leader of the Government in the Senate that the real debate is on a political situation. The political situation and the reasons for our move are well outlined in the amendment moved in the Senate by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers).  It was the intention of those who drew up our Constitution and who agreed to it that the Senate should have the power to reject money Bills. Certain powers it does not have in relation to money Bills, but there is no doubt that it has the power to reject. One ought to look, therefore, at what the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  saw fit to say in the House of Representatives yesterday on this point. He said: 
At stake is the same great issue - 
He was referring to some previous issues in the evolution of democracy-  the people's control of the Executive and the moneys raised and spent by the Executive through the people 's control of the lower House, the people's House. The taxpayers' control over their money through their elected representatives in the people's House is the foundation of parliamentary democracy. 
He went on then to talk about the Westminster system of government. Does the Prime Minister suggest that the Senate is not an elected House? He has taken the Westminster tradition, the Westminster model, and has drawn an analogy which applies only when one thinks in terms of the House of Lords in Great Britain. It does not apply to the Senate in Australia. The Senate is not a House of Lords; it is a duly constituted and elected body which has the right to speak for those who elect it, who are the same people as those who elect the House of Representatives. It is not only the House of Representatives which has executive power. If the Prime Minister thinks  that the executive control lies wholly in the House of Representatives why does he have Ministers who are appointed from the Senate? If he sees Executive power as something which should lie only in the hands of members of the House of Representatives why does he allow any of that power, even within his own Party, not to lie in the hands of members of the House of Representatives? He does not follow his analogy. It is an analogy which, asI have said, applies only in the case of the House of Lords. 
The Senate does, however, have some Executive power and it has the same responsibilities as the House of Representatives in the matter of surveillance over public funds. The essence of a democracy lies very simply in the answer to the question: Who controls the purse strings? The debate on that subject is centuries old; the fight is centuries old. It goes back to the fight between the kings and the barons. The development of democracy in our Western civilisation was the result of a demand that those who finance a government have a say in the disbursement of that finance. In Australia the people have 2 direct says. They have one when they vote for the House of Representatives and they have one when they vote for the Senate. Concurrent with that right, that privilege of democracy, there is the responsibility of all elected members to take upon themselves the task of surveying government expenditure, deciding whether the Government is acting as it should, and whether that power of the purse is being exercised as it should be. It is in this context that the Senate, of course, operates its Estimates Committees. 
The House of Representatives makes no worthwhile surveillance of the expenditure of public funds by the Government. The Prime Minister pretended it for the purposes of the debate yesterday, but it is not so. Every honourable senator who is present knows that there is no equivalent in the House of Representatives of the sort of surveillance that is meant to be given by the elected representatives of the people to the disbursement of public funds as is given in the Senate Estimates Committees. Those Estimates Committees have served this country well. They attempt to make that basic principle of democratic government- the reason the movement ever started- a reality in a parliamentary context in the Senate. But the Prime Minister chooses to ignore and to scorn the Senate's right. He also chooses to ignore and to scorn the right of the people when he does that. 
It is worth noting, in this context, how the present Government has again vacillated in its attitudes towards those Committees in time. It was, of course, in favour of them when it was in Opposition, but when we were voting last year on a motion which had to be moved by the Leader of the Opposition, in default of the Leader of the Government moving it, to set up those Estimates Committees and to give this Parliament the one chance it has to really carry out that particular aspect of its democratic function, the Labor Government opposed it. Every honourable senator who today will vote with the Government against the Opposition's amendment, every honourable senator who adheres to the point of view that we do not have the moral, political or legal right to delay, defer or take a positive action in relation to Appropriation Bills, also opposed the setting up of the Estimates Committees last year. The Labor Party has abrogated, through its votes in this House and through its speeches in this House and in the other place, its right to claim that it defends the interests of the people in the matter of the basic thrust of democratic government. The Labor Party - 

 - Senator McLaren would not need to refer to the situation in Queensland. I would be delighted to debate it with him. The Labor Party's legacy there is one from which the people of Queensland still suffer and I will be the first to admit it.  Senator McLaren  knows nothing about the history of the Queensland Government and of the Labor Party in government in Queensland. If he does he has chosen to forget it. We have in this Parliament a man who was a high office bearer in the Labor Party in the days when the Labor Party was in Government in Queensland. Never once did that man raise his voice then for the establishment of ordinances committees and all the other things that I could go on with. He tolerated the situation of a Labor Government which had not for 30 years called together any committees. That was understandable because the most exalted one was the Library Committee.  Senator McLaren  knows nothing, in those terms, about the situation in' Queensland. He has chosen to throw in his comment to try to waste time and to divert the debate away from the central issue which is so important to the people of Australia today. 
Yesterday the Prime Minister said: 
Governments are made and unmade in the House of Representatives- in the people's House . . . 
I suggest that governments are made and unmade in the ballot boxes of this country and that the Government has shown its abject fear of that principle. It has all the grounds it needs to go for a double dissolution, but why will it not do so? There are 20-odd Bills which it could use as the grounds for a double dissolution. However, it chooses not to answer questions that are asked of it on that subject in this chamber and in the other place. In the context of the deadlock for which the Government must take equal, if not full, responsibility it is interesting to look at the Prime Minister's words to the Governor-General in April 1974 when he requested a double dissolution. I have time to quote only a couple of brief pieces but they must be quoted. These were the words of the Prime Minister in April 1974 to the Governor-General: 
I must, therefore, advise Your Excellency that the Senate has by its attitude brought about a position where the normal operations of government cannot continue. 
Then after requesting the double dissolution he said: 
This will avoid the further possible inconvenience to electors of a later election, will permit the referendum proposals to be put as already determined, and will of course result in the saving of considerable public expense. 
Contrast that with the Prime Minister's statements of the last few weeks and earlier. Why will he not go to the Governor-General and request a double dissolution now? Why is it that he pretends he can go on governing now when last year, in a similar situation, he said the Government was in a position where the normal operations of government could not continue. How does he pretend that the Government will continue at the moment? 
It is also worth at least half a minute to comment on any suggestion of a half Senate election. The Prime Minister appears to be running from this suggestion now but everybody in Australia who has ever taken any notice of any of his speeches in an election will know that the Prime Minister adheres to the point of view that elections for the House of Representatives and the Senate should be at the same time. That is one of the reasons he gave to the Governor-General last year for a double dissolution. It is a principle which he forgets about when he talks of calling a half Senate election this year and afterwards to let us see what happens'. We now have a situation where the Government cannot, in the Prime Minister's own words, pretend to be able to govern, where it has been provided with the grounds more than 20 times to call an election, and yet still it chooses to ignore the facts. I refer briefly to my Leader's statement this afternoon.  Senator Withers  said: 
He, the Prime Minister, and he alone has attempted to thwart the wishes of the people. He and he alone is attempting to distort and defy the Constitution. He and he alone is attempting to destroy democracy. 
Finally, I refer to the sentiments of the then Deputy Leader of the Opposition in the Senate in the crucial debate in the 1970 Budget when the Australian Labor Party believed that it could oust the Government, that it could do it by voting against the Budget. I quote from  Hansard  of 26 August 1970 when  Senator Willesee,  the then  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the Senate - 
Yes, the present Deputy Leader of the Government in the Senate. In 1 970 he said: 
If honourable senators opposite are democrats they will accept our challenge, grasp the nettle and go to the Australian people whom they are supposed to represent and whom we are supposed to represent. Let the people give the reply. I look forward to their decision with a great deal of confidence. 
I similarly look forward with an equal amount of confidence to the decision of the Australian people as soon as they are given the opportunity. 

 Sitting suspended from 5.59 to 8 p.m. 

My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Can the Minister confirm last Friday's newspaper report that public servants have been required to work overtime recently in order to draw up, as a matter of urgency, a list of Government achievements, apparently in anticipation of a federal election? Would the Minister confirm that, if the information was required merely for the Prime Minister's end of year statement to the Parliament, overtime would not be necessary for that job at this time of the year? Can the Minister confirm that some departments have been required to draw up the information on a federal electorate basis rather than a regional or national basis, thus providing the details at high public expense for an Australian Labor Party campaign in each electorate? How does the Government justify the authorising of overtime on this nonessential task at the same time as it is threatening to withdraw other clearly necessary public services on the basis of a lack of money? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Can the Prime Minister confirm last Friday's newspaper report that Public Servants have recently been required to work overtime in order to draw-up, as a matter of urgency, a list of Government achievements, apparently in anticipation of a Federal election. 
2 ) Would the Prime Minister confirm that, if the information was required merely for his end of year statement to Parliament, overtime would not be necessary for that job at this time of the year. 
Can the Prime Minister confirm that some Departments have been required to draw-up the information on a Federal electorate, rather than a regional or national basis, thus providing the details at high public expense for an Australian Labor Party campaign in each electorate. 
How does the Government justify authorising overtime on this non-essential task at the same time as threatening to withdraw other clearly necessary public services on the plea of lack of money. 
I present the following petition from 395 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That whereas the natural environment of Fraser Island is so outstanding that it should be identified as part of the World Natural Heritage, and whereas the Island should be conserved for the enjoyment of this and future generations, 
Your petitioners humbly pray that the members, in Parliament assembled, will take the most urgent steps to ensure: 
that the Australian Government uses its constitutional powers to prohibit the export of any mineral sands from Fraser Island, and 
that the Australian Government uses its constitutional authority to assist the Queensland Government and any other properly constituted body to develop and conserve the recreational, educational and scientific potentials of the natural environment of Fraser Island for the long term benefit of the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I ask the Minister for Education whether he is aware of allegations made during the recent Federal election campaign by parliamentary and other members of the Australian Labor Party that it was the intention of the Liberal Party to abolish tertiary allowances and to re-introduce tertiary fees. Was there any basis in fact for those allegations? What is the Government's intention on these subjects now? 
Is the Minister for Science aware of the details of the damage that was done to the cities of Bundaberg and Maryborough in Queensland over the weekend by a strong storm or cyclone? I assume that he is aware that I am not interested in entering into any public debate on the controversy as to whether the storm was actually a cyclone and that he is aware also that the damage to property in those areas was typical of that caused by cyclones; in other words, there were high winds, rain and the type of damage normally associated with cyclones. Is he aware that there is no meteorological station between Bustard Head, which is on the coast approximately adjacent to Gladstone, and Double Island Point, which is some tens of miles north of Brisbane; so that, in fact, in an area of Australia which is cyclone prone there is a gap of several hundreds of miles between meteorological stations? Will he undertake to investigate the necessity for a meteorological station in between the 2 points I have mentioned on the coast of Queensland and give an early report to the Senate on his investigation? 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to make a statement on the same subject as that raised by  Senator Colston. 
I do not wish to extend this period of the Senate's business by repeating any of the matters raised by  Senator Colston.  He has stated what is substantially fact. I can speak for myself and say that I was informed by Amberley base-after I had contacted them at 2 o'clock and after several phone calls backwards and forwards about what sort of plane would be going to Bundaberg and whether indeed I could go- that a Hercules would depart at 4.30. I departed immediately for Amberley and arrived there between 10 and a quarter past four. The Hercules in fact took off at approximately 5.30. The facts otherwise are as  Senator Colston  stated concerning our trip to Bundaberg, our sojourn there and our return. 
I was similarly surprised and indeed very upset to hear on the half-hourly Macquarie news broadcast on Monday morning the statement that 3 senators had delayed a mercy mission, as it were, to Bundaberg and to read on the front page of the  Courier-Mail  a statement made by the Mayor of Bundaberg,  Mr Nielsen,  to that effect. I must say that  Mr Nielsen  did not name the senators. He merely said 3 senators and the  Courier-Mail  then named them. I then made a number of telephone calls. I rise also to add something else which I think should be said in fairness to the media. I issued a statement on the morning of 23 February denying those reports. I contacted the Macquarie news and was informed by them that their story came from an Australian Associated Press story. My office contacted AAP on my behalf and they were told that AAP took its story at 4 a.m. from news items for the  Courier-Mail.  Subsequently I contacted the  Courier-Mail  and both I and members of my staff spoke to various people on the  Courier-Mail  staff. I am quite satisfied with the outcome and with the attitude shown by AAP, Macquarie news and the  Courier-Mail.  At least they did act fairly promptly to set the record straight. 
However it was not until the evening of 23 February that I was able to contact the Mayor of Bundaberg,  Mr Nielsen.  I made some apologies relating to some other items in that news report and I asserted that the statement that he had made about senators having held up the aircraft was quite false.  Mr Nielsen  replied that he had been informed that the reason the flight was delayed was that originally the RAAF intended to take a Chinook helicopter to Bundaberg and that because we wanted to go it was not big enough and they had to take a Hercules. I understand that that is quite false. Unfortunately  Mr Nielsen  did not indicate to me who had given him that piece of information. Whoever it was deliberately and maliciously had fabricated the information and passed it on to him. A matter of great concern to me is that a story such as this could be disseminated so widely throughout Queensland and indeed Australia without any attempt being made by those who wrote the story to contact the people involved and to find out whether the story was true. They were not given the opportunity of comment at the time that the story was published rather than 24 hours later. 
I agree with the other comments made by  Senator Colston  regarding the media elsewhere in Australia. I must say that I am very sorry that this has happened because it has caused a great deal of distress to a number of people in Bundaberg. It has also caused the 3 senators concerned some distress but we are able to look after ourselves reasonably well and we were able to reply. Nevertheless I consider the reporting of this incident to be totally irresponsible. I do not blame  Mr Nielsen  altogether. I do think that in a case like this where great personal distress and hardship was caused to citizens in Bundaberg and in other towns nearby, the media should have shown a rather different form of responsibility. If I may comment on the subject of media responsibility, I must say that I find it rather curious that when one contacts people who have widely disseminated a story which they have not attempted to verify and when one objects to that story one is told that it is not their fault but that is was somebody else's mistake and it was just their bad luck that they happened to copy the false news item. 
Has the Minister for Education seen the report in today's  Canberra Times  concerning the School of Automotive Engineering at the Canberra Technical College which alleges that the building was not ready, stores and equipment remained unpacked and storemen were not available, shelving was not ordered, teachers were not available and an office had no lighting? What truth is there in these allegations? 
I  present the following petition from 380 electors of Queensland: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of the undersigned electors of Queensland respectfully showeth- 
That the three service cadet forces have great value in the development of the youth of Australia. 
That the disbanding of the cadet forces will disperse accumulated expertise and interest of those involved, and in some cases negate the efforts of many people over many years. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will reconsider its decision and that the Government will reinstate the cadet forces. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I enter this Address-in-Reply debate rather late in the proceedings. It has been under way for some weeks now and will probably finish fairly shortly. This is the first opportunity that I have had to congratulate you,  Mr President,  on your elevation to the office which you now hold. All honourable senators are confident that you will grace that office, that you will show to the Senate the fairness and the dignity for which you are renowned and that you will be a great asset to the proceedings of the Senate during the time that you hold that office. I also wish to congratulate  Senator Drake-Brockman  on his election as  Chairman  of Committees. He has already shown that he is extremely capable in that capacity and that he is a senator who will be able to facilitate the proceedings of the Senate in a worthwhile way. Again, because I speak at a late stage in this debate, this is the first opportunity I have had to congratulate all the new senators on both sides of the chamber. Their maiden speeches have been of sterling quality. The contributions that they have made in this Address-in-Reply debate and on other matters have been most noteworthy. I am sure that in the future we will have a Senate which will work hard and well with the older members of whom I am now one after just a short time, and with the newer members. 
I feel constrained to comment on some of the things that  Senator Douglas  McClelland has said. As I have said, this debate has been under way for some time and has ranged over many subjects. Most of  Senator Douglas  McClelland 's comments were apparently intended to be directed to the amendment which the Opposition has moved to the motion for this adoption of the Address-in-Reply. Nevertheless, there are a couple of things which  Senator Douglas  McClelland said to which I must take some exception. He said that the Labor Government, and the Labor Party, aims at the protection of all people on the basis of equity and equalisation. Unfortunately, he did not spell out what he actually meant by those words and he was not very easy to follow. I come from a State which was more than just resentful of the way it was treated by the previous Labor Government. Whatever the previous Labor Government may have said about the attitude of Queenslanders, there is no doubt at all that Queenslanders believed themselves to be well based in their distrust of and resentment towards that Government. In 1972 Queensland was booming quite dramatically. We had been, as I have said before in the Senate, through an extraordinary drought in Queensland. It had lasted 16 years and had broken a short time before, or at about the time when, the Labor Government assumed office. If it had not been for the tremendous expansion of the mining industry and the associated secondary industries in Queensland, that State would have been in very serious trouble, instead of which it was a boom State thanks to the growth of the industries which I have mentioned, notably the mining industry. 
During the period it was in office the Labor Government managed to destroy the confidence of the mining industry and to go a long way towards undermining the future prospects of industries which we expected, back in 1972, were imminent, which were about to be established and which would have let to further expansion. The Federal Labor Government did not manage to slow down Queensland absolutely. Queensland still made some progress, but it was achieved under extraordinary difficulty. The former Labor Government demonstrated itself as a government not caring about people who live in remote areas and the difficulties experienced by families living in those areas on a day to day basis, as well as the difficulties involved in operating an industry. 
The former Government did not quite have the nerve to come right out into the open and say: 'We do not really think people should be developing the remote areas of Australia. Therefore, we would really prefer that you gave up the effort'. It did not quite have that sort of a nerve. But the penalities of living in those remote areas were harsh. In a State which is so large and so diversified in its population, the effect was felt strongly and bitterly. It would be very difficult for  Senator Douglas  McClelland to go to Queensland and talk about the protection of all people on the basis of equity and equalisation. He also stated- I am not terribly sure what he meant- that the development of Australia should be considered region by region, boundary by boundary and growth according to growth. It is a pity that that statement was not a little clearer because I think that, in the context of the performance of the Labor Party in government, would have been interesting. 
The Labor Party has been saying quite a bit about itself recently. Within the last couple of days  Senator James  McClelland said that the Labor Party ought not to consider itself any more a party based on the trade unions. He referred to the fact that it is estimated that at least 50 per cent of trade union members did not vote for Labor in the last Federal election but, in fact, voted for the return of a Liberal-National Country Party government. That is nothing new. Although for a long time the Labor Party has claimed to represent 'workers'- I put that word in inverted commas- in fact, it has never represented all those in employment if that is what it means by 'workers'. The disaffection amongst the people whom the Labor Party has traditionally considered would support it should not have been any surprise to it. 

 Mr President, you know very well that a number of senators, who are now Government senators, came under some extraordinary pressure when the Opposition deferred the Budget in the Senate last year. Thanks to people like my colleague from Queensland,  Senator Keeffe,  continually naming me as one of those who might change their minds regarding the deferral of the Budget, I came under considerable pressure. Of course, the allegation was completely untrue. It did not seem to matter how often I denied it; somebody from the then Government side of the Parliament would repeat it and I would have the Press after me again and I would be denying it again. Other people were encouraged to put pressure on me amongst others, to try to weaken the stand that the then Opposition was taking in this matter. Of course they did not succeed. One or the reasons I stayed absolutely determined in my commitment at that time, and had no doubt at all about the decision that I had taken, was the number of low income earners who approached me and said 'Good on you. Stick to what you are doing'. As far as I am concerned, it was not the high income earners or the members of the business community who were trying to keep us firm in our then resolve. It was the people who were really being hurt; the people who were most vulnerable; the people who did not have security in employment and in their personal condition. The people who were being hurt were the ones who were really threatened by unemployment; the ones who were threatened by inflation; the ones whose children had virtually no prospect of entering employment once they left school. Those people in advance of their being an election, had no doubt at all about the need for an election in Australia. 

 Senator James McClelland should not be surprised, because surely he was receiving the same sort of information. We have been acquainted with other sorts of information that he claims he had at that time. But this sort of information should have been something that was available to  Senator James  McClelland as a Labor senator. If it was, he has not said so. That is something that he has not chosen to reveal to the Senate. Now he says that the Labor Party apparently needs some super intellect basis. He says that it needs to appeal to people of a certain type of background. In fairness, he says that Parliament, not just the Labor Party, should be looking for people with these qualities. I suggest to  Senator James  McClelland and whoever of his colleagues are tempted to follow him in this line of thought, that the background of the person whom they attract into their Party and whom they choose for their parliamentary representation will not matter. It will not matter whether they are academics, professional people, union leaders or workers. It will not matter if they are complete illiterates. If they do not have the ability or the will to see how their policies affect people, then they will be failures. It will not matter to which group of people they claim to aim as a basis for future power. If they cannot govern in the interests of the people, then they will be a society which failed. 
As I said earlier, the debate has ranged over many topics. It would be presumptuous of anybody to hope to cover all those topics at this stage. However, there are a couple of particular contributions to the debate to which I should like to refer. One was a contribution made by  Senator Cavanagh. 

 Senator Cavanagh, a Minister in the former Government, covered many topics. He talked about the irrelevance of Parliament so far as he was concerned. He talked about the greater relevance of militancy on the streets and of militancy within trade unions, which I suggest is a greater reflection on  Senator Cavanagh  's attitude than it is on this Parliament. He also put an extraordinary thesis of people not having to work if they did not want to. He made a case for people who wanted to indulge in leisure as their main pastime, and he made this statement at page 1 1 7 of the Senate  Hansard  of 1 9 February: 
It is far better for increased leisure time to be in the hands of those who have selected it than of those who are forced into it. 
In other words, it is far better apparently that people who are employed currently and who would rather not work but live on Government handouts should be allowed to do that than that people who are currently unemployed be kept unemployed.  Senator Cavanagh  wants some sort of swap over. He does not want people to be obliged to work in order to get some sort of income and he seems to think that an interchange should be possible. Quite apart from the logic of that, it is an extraordinary thesis. As I recall my history and political science lessons, one of the bases of the Labor movement was an objection to the fact that the leisure class of times gone by was the wealthy class and that those who were born wealthy or who acquired wealth along the way at the expense of the aforementioned worker in fact could indulge in leisure. We seem to have had the contrary thesis given to us now. Whereas before there was an objection to the idea of the nobility or the wealthy class being a leisured class, it is being proposed now that there is nothing at all wrong with the leisure class, nothing at all wrong with money being given to people as a means of subsistence, nothing at all wrong with whether they make any sort of contribution or are absolute parasites in society, as long as they are not noble or well-bred, as long as they are people from the working class and apparently people who would otherwise vote Labor. 
Whichever thesis one takes- that there should be a leisure class and that it should be the province of the wealthy or that it should be the province of the workers- the same charges of exploitation can be made, the charges of exploitation which used to be made by the Labor movement many years ago. Those same charges can be made now against the sort of person who will sit down and say: ' No, I don 't want to work. I don 't want to contribute in kind to society. However, I want society to keep me. ' I would caution those of the Labor movement who intend to follow  Senator Cavanagh  's thesis, interesting though it may be, of some of the pitfalls they are about to encounter. It is a new idea, and the Labor Party is casting around at the moment for a new ideaany new idea- in order to find something on which to hang its hat. If it is going to advance that thesis seriously, I suggest that it will not get off the ground in Australia. 
There is no doubt at all that there was enormous resentment in our society, and there still is, towards people who claim that they do not have to work but that those who do have to work should keep them as well. There is an enormous resentment of that idea. I for one would hate to see an over-reaction on the basis of that resentment. I think we should be careful in our social welfare area of things like unemployment benefits and the conditions under which they are granted. We have to be careful about certain civil liberties. We cannot over-react to the exploitation which has taken place in the past. However, we do have a responsibility to those who are working to advance our society, to those who believe in our society and want it to work properly. We have a responsibility to them, as the people who fund the operations of government, to ensure that the basic democratic process, that is, the right of the taxpayer and the right of the voter to direct how their money will be spent, is safeguarded.  Senator Grimes  was one of the first to jump on that bandwagon. 
Before Parliament resumed some announcements were made by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  on the tightening up of conditions under which unemployment benefits would be given. I was one who said that I welcomed that tightening up. However, I had some reservations about the means of implementation of the conditions which were going to be put on the dole in future. I had reservations because I believed that there was a potential for serious infringement of people's civil liberties in those tightening up provisions. I believed that there was a potential for people to be treated unjustly and not in the way that we as a Parliament, or indeed society as a whole, would want to see people in that position treated. I suggested that the Government should consider very seriously the appointment of an ombudsman as a way of protecting those people. I am well aware that appeals machinery exists at the moment which was set up by the former Labor Government when it put some sort of restriction on pensions. I am well aware that that machinery exists but I suggest that it is no substitute for an ombudsman. It is certainly potentially a way of protecting people's liberties, but an ombudsman operates rather differently. He operates with full professional respectability and with a greater chance of efficiency than the sort of appeals tribunals that we have. That is not meant in any way to be a reflection on the people currently serving on those tribunals. I know that they serve with the best will in the world and I know that they do a good job. But the need for an ombudsman goes beyond that scope. It is something to which I hope the Government will give early consideration. 
A Bill to appoint an ombudsman was on the notice paper for a very long time last year. I hope that nobody is going to suggest that the fact that it was on the notice paper in the Senate for weeks was in any way the fault of the Opposition. As one of the people who looked forward to debating that Bill, I remember very well one day when those of us in the then Opposition who were particularly interested in the Bill actually thought that it was going to be debated that day. It had been listed about No. 4 on the notice paper and there was a good chance in the early part of the day that it would come up. As the day progressed, unfortunately that chance faded as the Senate became terribly involved in some other Bill. It actually got to the position of being the next Bill to be debated that day, but we did not finish the previous Bill. When we got our notice paper the next day the Government had dropped the ombudsman Bill down to No. 14, so there was no risk of it getting close to the point of debate. Parliament was dissolved without that Bill being debated in the Senate, although it was debated in the House of Representatives 
I am one of many people who see some cause for concern in the growth of government, in the growth of its importance, in the growth of the potential it has for interfering in people 's lives. I am one of many people who over many years have advocated the appointment of an ombudsman at all levels of government. Several States now have ombudsmen, of course. Many objections were raised some 15 years ago, when the idea of an ombudsman was very novel. This was in a period before even New Zealand had an ombudsman. There was some debate about whether the office would fit into the Westminster parliamentary system, and I think that the thesis then put forward by people who opposed the appointment of an ombudsman was that it was not suited to the parliamentary style of government, that while it might be suited to the Scandinavian system of government it was not suited to ours. Of course, the enlightened decision some years ago of the New Zealand Government to appoint an ombudsman has given the lie to that allegation. 
A further allegation which was made then, and I fear it is still made by some, is that an ombudsman would cut across the role of a member of Parliament, that it would somehow interfere with the prerogative of a member of Parliament. It was said that the job the ombudsman is supposed to do of hearing complaints from the public about acts of omission or commission by the Public Service is the job of a member of Parliament. I came into Parliament wondering about how my change in status in relation to politics from being a party worker to being a member of Parliament would affect my attitude to the ombudsman. I am bound to say that all it has done is to completely reinforce my previous opinion that an ombudsman is essential. There are areas into which a member of Parliament should not go. I do not believe it is right that a member of Parliament should have access to certain Public Service files. We have to respect the independence and the integrity of the public servant in the administration of his duties. However, we must recognise that there could be cases where the public servant makes the wrong decision, for whatever reason. It may not be just his own decision; he may have been influenced by others in his decision. 
There are cases where great delays in decisions have caused enormous hardship to people on occasions. In those cases it is necessary to have some independent person who can review the case, who can look at its merits and make a recommendation. I suggest that with the best will in the world we could not always be confident that a member of Parliament could make that sort of independent review. Indeed, there are members of Parliament who are in no way competent to make any such review. I hope that the Government will give early consideration to the possible benefits that would flow to Australians from an ombudsman in the federal system. It is something to which we, as Liberals, are committed and it is something which fits very well with our philosophy of government. 
As I said earlier, one of the reasons I raised the matter at that time was that I had some fears about political intereference in the operations of the restrictions on the application of the dole. One of the objections I raised was that I feared there was an opening for those who wanted to make political mischief to allege abuse, even if such abuse was not occurring. I am not suggesting for one moment that that is what  Senator Grimes  was doing in his speech on 19 February, which appears at page 126 of  Hansard.  Senator Grimes  certainly went somewhere towards doing that. He may have been well intentioned but I suggest that there are many other people who will not be so well intentioned when they make this sort of statement.  Senator Grimes  made a reference that I will not repeat and then, referring to a speech made by  Senator Sheil  last year, said: 
Never have any figures been produced to prove or to let us know how many of the so-called dole bludgers there werejust claims that there were thousands, that there were millions, that they were everywhere. 

 Senator Grimes went on to make a statement which indicated that the new provisions could be abused. I agree that the new provisions could be abused. I think, for the protection of the public and for the reasons that I have outlined, that we should have some safeguards. I think it is important also for the protection of the public servants that we have safeguards. Obviously, it is in the interests of many people- either in their individual interests or in their political interestsnow and in the future to make all manner of allegations relating to the application of those guidelines on the dole. We run the risk, I fear, of those new guidelines, which are meant to achieve the right objective, being discredited by people who will be in a position to make all manner of wild allegations if we do not have some independent benchmark against which to measure their allegations. 
We are replying to the Governor-General's Speech. He said many things in that Speech. I should like to make a couple of general remarks about what he said and a couple of particular remarks about areas that interest me. It seems to me that the Opposition has divided its debate on the Address-in-Reply into 2 parts. The first part, notably, is a vituperative attack on the Governor-General. The second part is an attempt to get an interesting debate going about their amendment in relation to local government. I suggest that the amendment is fatuous. I suggest it is a device to try to draw attention to one area of its policies which will not particularly benefit the Opposition because its record in that area is not good. It is easy, indeed, for Opposition members to make criticisms of the Government's policies as outlined in the Governor-General's Speech. 
It is easy but they have not taken all the time that they could have on replying to it. There are some areas that I am sure will upset the Opposition very much. The Speech outlines a government policy which is quite contrary to the approach of the previous Government, which was a soft option government. It was a government which attempted to cover all areas and attempted, in some ways, to appear to give no one any cause for complaint, but ended up, of course, giving many people a basis for legitimate complaint. It indulged in bottomless pit financing. The previous Government had the idea that if $lm was considered to be not very much money then $20m was not very much either, when considered in relation to the total Budget and if $20m is an easy amount of money to spend then it is not a very big jump to say that $100m, $200m or $l,000m is not very much to spend. It becomes very difficult with a government such as the previous Government, which over-spent so grossly and which seemed to have no benchmark, to keep government spending in perspective.  Senator Georges  made an aside during a reply from  Senator Guilfoyle  to  Senator Button  in the Senate some weeks ago. The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  was referring to a decision the Government had made to save $132,000 by not printing some reports.  Senator Georges  said: 
Only $130,000? 
One would have to look at the merits of that $130,000 in its own context, but one needs to have some base against which to start. The previous Government is guilty of never having attempted to set that base. 
The idea of the bottomless pit of government financing was there. It had to operate on that assumption. It had, in Opposition for so many years, nurtured the idea that government finances were a bottomless pit, that there was no need for a government to exercise any restraint in its spending, that it did not need to set priorities or draw the line anywhere. The previous Government did draw the line on some occasions; it drew the line according to its own prescription and it decided that some could get benefits and others could not. There was an extraordinary coincidence in those decisions. One group, for example, could have hundreds of millions of dollars in aid. Yet another group- I am thinking particularly of the beef industrycould not have easy access to aid to keep itself going whilst waiting for a future which we know must be better than the present. Those in the beef industry needed a comparatively small amount of money to keep themselves going. The previous 
Government laid itself open to that sort of criticism because it never tried to set any basis for its priorities. 
In the debate on the Address-in-Reply a few remarks have been made about women. I would like to make my own small contribution to this subject. I am particularly interested in that section of the Governor-General's Speech which says: 
In all policy areas the Government will be alert to opportunities to increase the freedom of Australians to choosewithout exploitation- the kinds of goods, services and styles of life they want . . . 
The Governor-General went on to talk about interference by the bureaucracy. Debates have taken place in this chamber about the role of women in our society. I thought that  Senator Walters  made a very interesting and worthwhile contribution- interesting because in my experience it certainly reflected the attitudes of many Australian women.  Senator O  'Byrne scoffed at these attitudes. I remember that  Senator Walters  said something about the need for an increase in child endowment to enable women to stay at home, if they so choose, to look after their children. When she said that there are some who allege that that is a standard sort of fascist line,  Senator O  'Byrne said very loudly: 'Hear, hear!' He seemed to me to be implying that that was his opinion- that it was a fascist line.  Senator O  'Byrne would need to have a little more contact with Australian women if that is his opinion. Perhaps he thinks that the majority of Australian women in that role are fascists. Goodness knows; he can speak for himself. 
Women in Australia, the wives and mothers of our society, face a very difficult situation at present. I remember that some years ago in the early 1960s, when the big scare talk started about the population explosion, many terrifying articles appeared in books, magazines and, indeed, even in the Sunday newspapers about the implications of a population explosion. I remember vividly that one of the theories being put forward by economists at that time as a means of dampening down the population explosion was that government should so arrange the economy that it was necessary for just about every adult in our society to work. Their theory was to arrange the economy so that it would be just about impossible for a family to subsist on one wage and, by doing so, men and women would be discouraged from having children. This idea was based, of course, on the fact that if a woman has to take a full time job and has to take the full family responsibilities that she might have if she did not hold a job she would be discouraged from having children because children would be a burden to her and would be a burden to the family. The theory was, therefore, that people could be persuaded- not in so many words and not explicitly or honestly- by governments to keep down the size of their families, and thereby do something about the population explosion. I will come back to that point later because I fear that it is almost possible that some honourable senators have deliberately embarked on a debate of this kind in recent days. I must say that it is a cynical, cruel and ruthless policy. It is a policy that no civilised society, such as Australia, should for one minute consider. 
We talk a lot these days about the need for people to get job satisfaction- enjoyment out of being creative in their employment area. It is something with which trade unions are preoccupied, but not many trade unions. It is something with which many employers and academics are preoccupied. It is a subject which comes up for debate in this Parliament from time to time, the argument being that people should be able to do the jobs for which they are most suited, that they should be able to develop and utilise the skills with which they were born or are most interested in developing, that they should have the opportunity to choose their job freely, to be creative in their job and to get satisfaction from it. We have embarked on such undertakings as job retraining schemes to enable people to do this sort of thing. But it seems to me that we talk entirely in the industrial area. 
Much of the activities of the women's movement was based on an objection to the idea that women, by their biological destinies, ought to remain in the home and ought not to pursue careers. That objection was based on the notion that if women could obtain satisfaction from careers- and they ought to be able to do that if they have that talent and that talent is not suppressed- women should have that equal right. It seems to me that that movement has made a most serious error. It seems to me also that this error is flowing into the thinking of society concerning the role of women. 
When we talk about job satisfaction, as far as I can see this is being applied only to the assembly line, the office or whatever. It is not being applied to all occupations. It certainly is not being applied in that context to women who are pursuing a specific job- this is, the role of homemaker and the role of child raiser. The fallacy on the part of the women's movement argument is that while is rejects what it calls the sexist assumption that women, by reason of their biological makeup, were destined to follow a particular sort of course in their life and that it was unnatural for them to want to do anything like follow another careerand I would agree obviously wholeheartedly with that rejection- I fear that the women's movement has appeared to impose on women a different sort of assumption. 
That is the assumption that if a woman gets pleasure out of the job of being wife and mother, if she gets satisfaction from the job of raising children, if she wants to stay in the home, as we call it, and perform a very particular duty there, she ought to feel guilty and that there is something inhuman or unnatural about making a decision of that type. That is as unreal an assumption as the previous assumption. But very many women, I must say to the Senate and specifically to  Senator O  'Byrne, who do like the job that they are doing- that is, the traditional job, the biological destiny type job- are now fearful. They are having all manner of emotions raised. They are fearful that they will be forced into jobs that they do not want to do, jobs that they have not chosen to do, jobs for which they do not have the proper skills and jobs from which they will not get job satisfaction. That is surely the essential basis of undertaking such work. We ought to extend our debate on job satisfaction to all people. We ought to consider that particular task for which so many women do opt, willingly, happily and gladly, and for which they have the necessary talents; we ought to consider that a job. 
The year before last, this Senate passed a Bill which the House of Representatives finally passed last year in which we made some attempt to give some recognition to the economic contribution of the woman in the home. That was, of course, the Family Law Bill. Some quite new concepts were introduced, for instance, with respect to the basis for determining maintenance and property settlements. That Bill providedand we have put into law- that the contribution of the woman in the home ought to be considered a contribution to the family economy and ought to be considered as some sort of contribution to the assets of a family and, in the case of marital breakdown, a woman should have a claim as of right to have the assets assessed on the basis of the job that she has done. 
I regret to say that it has been a once only piece of legislation. It does not seem to have flowed on to any other legislative area. The particular area to which it ought to flow- but it has not- is that of death duties. Death duties is a subject of quite some interest in my own State of Queensland at the moment. I have no intention of entering into the State debate on it. Death duties, nevertheless, is an area of some Federal concern. The previous Government proposed that there should be no duties on the family home, up to a certain value, as it passed from spouse to spouse. That was a bandaid measure. It completely overlooked that basis of claim to property on the grounds of a contribution to the family's economy which we recognised in the Family Law Bill. It is intolerable to me that we would give some that right to claim and others not the entitlement to that claim. We give the claim to divorcees, but we do not give the claim to the widow or to the widower. 
We make it possible for an individual, man or woman, but specifically in this instance a woman, to get some sort of just economic recognition for his or her contribution to the family at the point where a couple recognises that their marriage has broken down and at the point where they have decided not to continue with their marriage. I feel full of compassion for people in that situation. I do not suggest for one minute that we should penalise them or take anything away from them. However, how can we justify that position as against the woman whose husband dies, who has had a perfectly satisfactory marriage or a happy marriage and who has the misfortune to lose her husband through his death. That woman is then dealt with in an entirely different way. If it is good enough to make certain property considerations for and to give certain recognitions to a woman at the point of divorce, it is good enough- and it is certainly quite urgent- that we consider doing that at the point of death of the spouse. 
It has been estimated that the contribution of women to the gross national product is approximately 25 per cent. The estimate comes from the United States of America. It is very difficult to make the estimate, but it is obvious that the contribution is made. It obviously costs more for 2 parents of a family to go out to work. It costs more to have 2 people working than it does to have one parent working. It costs more for many reasons, not just the practical considerations of work clothes, transport, and one thing and another. It costs more when the mother goes to work as well as the father, particularly when special arrangements need to be made for the care of the children. It costs more because there are certain contributions that the woman is unlikely to be able to continue to make to the family economy. I refer to simple matters like making clothes for the children, amongst other things. Another aspect is the failure to have the time to make the type of household economies which most women are not able to make when they take on a full time occupation. So, it is not all cop. 
The fact is that the woman in the home who is not going out to work is making that sort of contribution. She is giving some child care. She is giving other forms of economic support to the family. But it is the only job in our country of which I know which is not paid. If women had a trade union, this situation would not have gone on for so long. But it is an area that has been completely overlooked. Plenty of pious words have been uttered in the past but nothing has ever actually been done. 

 Senator Walsh has made a suggestion relating to increased child endowment. I support that suggestion. The level of child endowment support these days is ludicrous, quite ludicrous! However, I am one of those who do not believe that child endowment should be an extraordinarily high payment. There is a tremendous risk to the low income family in a very high level of child endowment payments. In that position, a woman in the low income family, particularly if it is low income related to a general low level of education of both parents, is put severely at risk. I believe that such a woman is put in a position where quite unbearable pressure can be brought to bear on her to procreate as a means of bringing in family income. I see  Senator Grimes  frowning at me. But I suggest,  Senator Grimes,  that that is not an unrealistic suggestion. It is a fear that has been expressed to me by both women in that position and women who are acquainted with other women in that position. It is something about which we need to be careful. Nevertheless, 1 believe that child endowment payments should be increased. 
That is not the whole story; it is only part of it. There have been suggestions that governments ought to pay women a wage for staying at home. There are pitfalls in that suggestion, too. I must say that I am not in general persuaded by the argument. However, I think governments must find some way of making an equitable recognition of the contribution that women do make to their family economy and thereby to the economy of the nation. I reiterate the words of the GovernorGeneral: 
In all policy areas, the Government will be alert to opportunities to increase the freedom of Australians to choose without exploitation the kinds of goods, services and styles of life- they want. 
I suggest that at present many Australian women are not truly free to choose; they need to go out to full time employment in order to keep their family decently and to educate them to the point which is so necessary in this modern society. I would suggest that, if the Government truly regarded the family as the important unit of society, as everybody keeps on claiming it is, it would do something a little more positive. It would not force such a large proportion of its population into work that the people do not want. It would not force such a large number of our children to be latchkey children. I am not suggesting that all fault lies with the previous Labor Government. I think the fault goes back further than that, but we must recognise it now. Suggestions have been made about how we can recognise it and how we can equitably deal with it. Frankly, the suggestion which appeals to me is the one of income splitting for the purpose of taxation, a recognition that the income earned by one partner in a family and his potential for earning income is substantially contributed to by the other partner. We recognise this in the Family Law Act. We recognise in that Act that the party to the marriage who plays a supportive role extends in general terms the earning capacity of the other partner to the marriage. 
The obvious example that comes to mind here is the man trying to raise a family on his own with the enormous difficulties he meets trying to do that, the enormous limitations which that role places on his earning potential and the consequent difficulties which families in that situation fall into. The supportive role of the second parent- in most cases it is the woman- is important for the family's economy and we ought to recognise that. At the same time we ought to recognise it directly in relation to that supportive partner to the marriage. As I have said, the notion of tax splitting appeals to me. I know that the immediate rock on which this could threaten to founder would be the reduced government income. If we split family incomes ibr the purpose of taxation governments will end up collecting less taxation. To take an income and split it into two and collect the taxation which would be relevant to each of those halves would return considerably less taxation than if we added those halves together and taxed the full amount at the appropriate rate. 
However, I do not think that is necessarily an overriding consideration. I think justice to nearly half our population should be an overriding consideration. I think the welfare of our families should be an overriding consideration. Certainly much has been done in recent years but much remains to be done. Much has been done for the single supporting mother. Much has been done for the widow and possibly much more needs to be done, but I say firmly for those on the other side who appear to disagree with me that there is a very strong and growing feeling amongst those who are not in that single situation that they are becoming more and more disadvantaged. Whereas before the one parent family was disadvantaged, now provisions are made which make it easier for such families. At the same time other things are happening in our society which are making it more and more difficult for the 2 parent family where one parent is caring for the children. This is a matter of some urgency and I put it forward with full sincerity. 
As I have said, there is some debate on our attitude to probate. I do not think that there is any cause for the glee that some Labor politicians, State and Federal, seem to be indulging in at the moment on that subject. Probate, or death duties, has always been considered to be a basic part of the socialist philosophy and I come back to the beginning of my speech when I talked about the original objection to the landed, the wealth by inheritance or the noble class, and the attempts which have been made successfully to break down that class. Probate was part of that and it is a matter of some cynicism in politics that there are now some State and Federal Labor politicians jumping on that bandwagon apparently for the purpose of forthcoming elections in New South Wales and elsewhere. This sort of political cynicism just will not wear these days. We are talking about people who, because there has been so much talk about this matter for so long, are well aware of what their rights ought to be. They are becoming more assertive. This is an area about which governments and oppositions can no longer by cynical and exploitative. We need to be alert to opportunities to increase the freedom of all Australians, including our female citizens, to choose without exploitation the style of life that they want. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Administrative Services. Is he aware that a notice has been posted recently in the roster room of the Commonwealth car drivers to the effect that when they drive members of Parliament they are to speak only when spoken to? Does he know why the notice was posted? Did he give directions for it to be posted? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Has the Minister seen or had drawn to his attention an article in the Brisbane  Courier-Mail  of Saturday, 27 March 1976, headlined:  What to Wear to get a Job,  wherein it was claimed that an unemployed labourer was told by a Commonwealth employment official that he would have to go home and put on a shirt and tie before he could be considered for any vacancy? Does the Minister know whether this claim is true? Can the Minister also tell us whether the claim is true that this official went on to say to this individual that by the time he got back any job which might have been available would have gone anyway? Further, is there any truth in the suggestion of victimisation of this person because he had spent some time in Westbrook and had revealed this fact to the Commonwealth Employment Service? If any or all of these allegations are true, is this a proper implementation of the Government's policy to attempt to ascertain who are genuine job seekers or is it simply an example of an over zealous or over officious Government employee? 
Is the Minister for Administrative Services aware of the statement made recently by the Minister for Transport that because of the economic situation and the Government's cost cutting program he could not commit himself to the plan to build a new airport for Brisbane? Further, is the Minister for Administrative Services aware that the Minister for Transport said last month that he could not promise major works for Brisbane Airport before 1 982? I understand that the situation is vague but that it is almost certain that the next Budget will not produce very much in the direction of the Brisbane Airport. In these circumstances how does this affect the progress of the Department of Administrative Services in acquiring property involved in the upgrading of Brisbane Airport? What will happen to properties on which purchase has been finalised and in particular to those roads and bridges which are now the property of the Commonwealth Government? Will the Minister give consideration to allowing free usage, particularly to wharves on the Brisbane River, of those roads and bridges for businesses still operating in the area which claim they need the use of those facilities which were previously public roads and bridges? 
-At the outset of my remarks on the Bills dealing with education I would like to make a couple of comments on the speech made last night by  Senator Button.  I think that he made a tremendously valuable contribution to the debate. In that speech he said that perhaps it is time for a little speculation in the Senate on the role of education and specifically on the role of post-secondary education in Australia. The Senate should be grateful to  Senator Button  for his speech. It made a contribution to the education debate in Australia that is probably long overdue. It has been a matter of some concern to me since I have been a member of Parliament that we in the Parliament can pass Budgets which allot so much money to education without a proper debate here on what we are trying to achieve with the money involved. 
Education has become something of a sacred cow in the Australian community. The Parliament has a responsibility to be looking at objectives and priorities. I do not think that that is a responsibility for commissions only; I do not think it is a responsibility only for governments or for cabinets. I think it is a responsibility of the Parliament. The education establishment as such has grown enormously in recent years and we ought to be looking at the justification for that. I am not suggesting that only a small amount of that development is justified but I am alarmed that we have gone as far as we have and simply accepted that any expenditure on education is good expenditure, that any sum larger than the sum for the previous year is therefore justified. This evening I intend to limit my comments mainly to the tertiary levels, involving universities and colleges of advanced education. There are, of course, many other issues, some of which have been touched on by other speakers. Universities and colleges of advanced education are the areas to which I would like to give some attention tonight in supporting these Bills. 
In the debate this afternoon  Senator Tehan  made some comments relating to the education of overseas students. That is one subject on which I would like to make a couple of comments. With the abolition of fees at tertiary institutions in Australia anybody who is accepted by a university is automatically educated at least to some degree at the expense of the Australian taxpayers. The matter of the education of students from overseas at Australian universities has been commented on by different people over the years. I am anxious to point out to the Senate at this point that I do not want in any way to align myself with various bigots who have come forward over the years and suggested that we should not have Asians or Africans or whatever in our universities. Instead of talking about it vaguely, as people have talked from time to time, I think we ought to look at the actual effect and the actual alternatives to admitting overseas students to our universities just because our universities offer a training which is not available or not easily available at universities in their own countries. I suggest that Australian governments would do well to take a serious look at putting some of its resources towards the education of some of these students in their own countries. In certain areas of education- such as pure science or the arts- it hardly matters which country a student is in when he undertakes a tertiary education. There may be some differences in courses offering national literature, national history or something like that, but in the essentially 'pure' disciplines it does not matter much which country the student is in, but it does matter if he is studying a subject like agriculture, veterinary science or even education. It can matter also if he is studying a subject like medicine. We allow students into our universities at enormous cost to us to study courses which qualify them in a profession which may or may not be of some value to them when they go back to their own countries. 
Let me expand on that a little. I might say by way of explanation that I am talking more about undergraduate courses than about post-graduate courses at the moment. At the University of Queensland we have probably the best school of tropical agriculture in the world. We bring students there from all the underdeveloped countries to undertake both undergraduate and post-graduate courses- specialist post-graduate diplomas and the normal post-graduate Masters degrees and degrees of Doctor of Philosophy. Tropical agriculture being a very specialised subject, there is some benefit in having our resources concentrated there and in offering students from Africa, Asia and South America the opportunity to go there and undertake training, particularly the post-graduate Diploma in Tropical Agronomy. It is a highly specialised area. However, I wonder at the wisdom of accepting that other areas of research and study are necessarily as transferable. I wonder at the wisdom of accepting that we should educate those students in our undergraduate courses. The students who come here to study come here usually in order to go back to their own country and become practitionersresearch workers employed by governments or research workers employed in the field. They go back and they make a very valuable contribution at that level but they make little ongoing contribution to education in that area in their own country. If they come here to do a Masters degree- more likely it will be the degree of Doctor of Philosophy- they have the opportunity to do that. The number of students from those sorts of countries who come to Australia to do these later courses is very small indeed. I suggest that the number is infinitesimal. 
The post-graduate training which is carried out at Australian universities by these students again falls into a different category because normally these students are sponsored by their governments or by some private enterprise organisation in their country. They can go back and make a very high level contribution and they can make a contribution at institutes of learning in their own countries. However I feel that the other group, the much larger group, the undergraduate students, may be better trained in their own country. Countries like Australia could naturally make a large contribution, certainly initially, in terms of staffing. It has been possible in some countries to establish very substantial universities and faculties with the assistance of professors and lecturers who have come in initially from overseas countries. They have been able to establish schools of learning which have been significant throughout the world because they have been able to specialise in areas particular to that country but not necessarily particular to countries which have previously offered those courses. I mentioned, for example, veterinary science and I have mentioned agriculture. Technical training is probably another one. Throughout the countries of the world, particularly the underdeveloped countries which would be most concerned with that sort of training, there are particular problems which are in no way particular or even of any significance within Australian universities. Therefore the solutions to those problems do not occupy a significant role in the Australian tertiary educational system. We run the risk of training students in what are essentially courses designed for an Australian environment and of sending them back to their own countries- a different environment with very particular problems- without necessarily having given them the means to meet those problems. I am suggesting that we could well think about the possibility of sending specialists there who could build up, in conjunction with the host governments, institutes of learning which could train students in their own countries in those particular fields. I think that, as far as we and those countries are concerned, the money would be a lot better spent. That is the sort of view to which I alluded when I referred to overseas students. But that is only one issue. 
I would like to give a few of my viewpoints in relation to universities and colleges of advanced education in the Australian context as they apply to the future of our country and to the education of our students today. It seems to me, as somebody who had been involved with education certainly for all my working life and obviously before that for all my life apart from my pre-school life, that tertiary institutions in Australia have had a certain number of difficulties imposed on them by the community. We long expected our universities to meet every problem of training that there was in the community. Before the colleges of advanced education were accepted as an important concept in education it was very common for an employer group to say, in relation to a particular industry: 'We need specialists trained in a particular area and therefore the universities ought to provide such courses'. There were cases whereby universities introduced courses which were not and are not now fitted for a university climate. We ought to rationalise so far as we can just what we expect from a university and what we expect from a college of advanced education. We have made big progress in recent years in relation to colleges of advanced education, in what we ask from them and what we expect from them, but what we have not necessarily clarified is our thinking on what we should be expecting from each of these fields of tertiary education. 
The universities are heavily involved in professional training and I think inevitably will be heavily involved in this training for a long time. I refer to areas of professional training such as medicine, dentistry and so on. They are areas which we may care to debate should never have been the province of universities and which really are more the area of a mixed technical and scientific training. However much we may care to debate that, I suggest that we will never change the fact that universities do and will continue to offer those courses. Nevertheless, we ought to be looking fairly carefully at other areas of university education and what we expect from them. This is important because in our debate and expectations we strongly influence the future raw material of the universities. I refer to future students, most of whom now are, and so far as we can see will be, very young and very easily influenced in their basic thinking by concepts and ideas which are put to them, no matter how loosely. 
An idea has grown up that a university degree is the golden meal ticket, that a person with a university degree has the entree to the world and that from there on it is up to that person. University graduates have been led to believe that at the least they can expect a high income. I suggest that that is not a real expectation of any university training, excluding the specialist areas that I referred to earlier. Universities were originallylong ago- intended to be institutes of research and institutes of pure learning. Maybe we ought to look at whether that is a role we should think about for universities in the future. So long as we are sending our young people in their thousands to the universities, into fields of study which should be ones of pure research and pure learning, with the expectation that that will give them a golden meal ticket, then we are in for big educational and social problems. A lot of publicity has been given in recent years to the dissatisfaction of various students when they have been accepted into universities, particularly to undertake arts and humanities courses. They have been dissatisfied with the substance of the courses because they were not in line with their expectations. They have been dissatisfied with what they think the end result of the degree will be because that was not in line with their expectations. I suggest that this is less the fault of the universities than it is the fault of the community for ever letting this idea grow up. We should have made it clear that universities are not job training institutes, particularly in such areas as the humanities. 
Of course, there is a risk for universities in pursuing this line of debate. It will mean a fair shift of resources if we are to shift community thinking and thereby the sons of things that influence young people to decide whether they go into universities or into colleges of advanced education. There will be a contingent shift of the government's and the country's resources. More people obviously will have to enrol in colleges, and universities may see themselves even shrinking in size. That will not suit the universities at all. So I do not think that we can look to many universities for much of a contribution to that debate. I suggest that there are others in the community to whom we should look. The first responsibility lies here with the Parliament, with the people who take that decision when they decide to debate and pass the Budget that is put to them each year. The responsibility lies here to initiate that debate and to bring forward the sort of thinking that should be brought to bear on it, whether or not it is original thinking or somebody else 's thinking. At least it must start. 
I am afraid that we have built up a rigid educational 'establishment' in this country. I do not want my remarks to be misunderstood. I know that very many people involved in universities are very well motivated, particularly in their own areas, but the whole system as it has grown up has brought with it its own problems. I think that the Murray report presented many years ago was an excellent report. The working of the Australian Universities Commission has been excellent and has contributed a lot to the development of tertiary education. Nevertheless I think that long since we should have been examining our priorities and giving some indication to groups like that of what we thought the end results should be. We have discussions about annual budgeting versus triennial budgeting but I think that as well as that sort of debate we ought to be looking much further ahead. We ought not to be afraid to involve ourselves in the debate on education against the so-called experts. 

 Mr President, I have a general reluctance, you may even like to call it a prejudice, but I hope it is not, to put the matter of advice on education exclusively into the hands of educationists. I think that the outcome must be entirely predictable. If you ask an educationist what education in Australia needs, I think that you have about a 90 per cent chance that the educationist or the group of educationists will set up a committee and will say: 'What you need is more educationists, that is, more people like us'. That might sound rather cynical and rather hard, but I suggest that if we examine the son of advice that has been given to governments of all political colours, let us say, over the last 10 to 20 years, that is essentially the advice given to us. Other valuable advice has been given with it, but there has been a reluctance with the growth of this 'sacred cow' notion of education for anybody to get up and challenge its experts regardless of whether the experts are involved in education administration, in educational psychology, or are headmasters, teachers or whatever. There has been this reluctance because there has been a general acceptance that education is a good thing, and because there has been a general acceptance that education potentially can be an enormously important social determining factor in the future, many of us have been overwhelmed by all those concepts and have felt that education obviously is a good thing generally. Thus we have said: 'Let us go ahead with it. We cannot make too many mistakes.' 
However, I suggest that many mistakes have been made. The cost of that approach has been people getting into areas of employment into which they were never intended to go, at high expense to themselves, their families and the public. They have found that when they became involved in these areas they did not want to be there. They felt sold out. The case of somebody who has a PhD. in chemistry and then sells life insurance and is much happier doing that is not all that unknown. Not a high percentage of students do this, but the percentage is significant. There has been a tremendous waste of resources. I suggest that this has happened at quite some personal cost not just in financial terms but in personal terms to the people who have undergone that experience. 
We need to examine these matters, but our means of examination are not terribly welldeveloped. However, we need to examine first the attitudes of universities and colleges of advanced education. We will have great difficulty doing that. That will be a difficult debate to start, but I would like to think that what is said in the Parliament may cause ripples or have some effect on that outside education establishment, so that educationists might feel obliged to react, not in a knee-jerk way but in a reasoned way which will contribute something to the overall debate. I am well aware that there are many people within that education establishment who know the faults and who are not happy about them but who individually cannot take the lead. They cannot do it themselves. They need encouragement to involve themselves in the debate. It must be a proper debate. When talking about universities and colleges of advanced education, we have to look at student priorities; by that I mean undergraduate versus post-graduate priorities. A few years ago the universities were told that in putting in their submissions for money they really ought to think in terms of having a rninimum 16 per cent post-graduate component in their enrolments. I am not telling any secrets from the inside, but I can tell honourable senators that nothing was ever more designed to send academics into cartwheels of glee. I will take a minute to explain that the basic rationale of the Australian Universities Commission's statistics on which it bases the figures of staff-student ratios and from which flow the general trend of fundingthe rationale of funding of a particular university- is heavily influenced by the number of undergraduates versus the number of postgraduates which any university and particularly departments in that university may have. There are tremendous advantages for departments and faculties in having a high post-graduate component. This attracts a larger amount of money for research, which is good for academics. They can then employ research assistants. They can then attract still more post-graduate students. They can publish a lot of research papers which they can then claim to have produced on their application forms for promotion from, for example senior lecturer to reader. This promotion is worth a considerable amount of money to them and more significantly is worth a considerable amount of money when they receive their superannuation. That is not as cynical as it may sound. That is part of the rationalisation. 
Certainly, we need postgraduate students and maybe universities should be training a far higher component of postgraduate students; but, if they are, we have a responsibility to decide what happens to the residue of undergraduate students. What does happen to them? Do they just fall by the wayside because quotas on undergraduate courses have to be tightened, since it costs so much more to educate postgraduate students per year of course than it does to educate most undergraduate students? We have that heavy responsibility. We have the responsibility to be aware of the components in those factors, to make some examination of them and then to make some recommendation. Perhaps we cannot get into the sort of detail which would enable us to decide in favour of one area of research as against another or one faculty as against another; but we ought to be aware, and we have not been aware of the general factors operating them. 
I was enormously disappointed by the contribution made to this debate by  Senator Ryan  this afternoon. I expected that she would bring to this debate a particular knowledge and expertise and a reasoned approach which would be of some value. Instead, we got shibboleths and some sort of political propaganda which added nothing to the debate. We have to be prepared to get away from that approach. So long as we have a partisan political approach at that level, and on Bills as innocuous as these, we will not make any progress. The responsibility here rests squarely with us, with members of the Government and Opposition Parties, to show that we are prepared to undertake a proper examination of the problems and not just to sling accusation, answer and counter-accusation at one another across the chamber. We will get into trouble when we embark on such an examination, because one of the first matters that will be raised is academic freedom. When one looks at what happens within university or college departments or faculties and seriously questions it and says to somebody: 'I think you ought to be responsive to public opinion', that person says: 'If we are responsive to public opinion we will lose our academic freedom'. Goodness me; if ever there was a suggestion that a government or politicians should intrude into that area, that is when the debate would really reach top decibel level. 
I would like to reach top decibel level on something that has come to my attention recently as a result of the practice of academic freedom. It is a matter of discrimination within a university which should be regarded as intolerable. I suggest that, if I as an individual were to go to the person responsible in this case and say: 'I as a member of Parliament think that what you have done is intolerable', he would turn around and say: 'I am going to plead academic freedom'. The position simply is that in a university which has a quota on entry into the first year of a course and a further quota on entry into the second year of that course a very serious situation has arisen. A certain number of students is taken into the first year. Those students know that at the end of first year, depending upon their examination results, they may or may not get into the second year of that course. If they do not get into the second year they will have to turn to some other university course. That is about all there is to it. 
Recently I was acquainted with a case involving a young woman who had received her results at the end of the first year of this course and subsequently was told that she would not be accepted into the second year. She therefore enrolled in another course and was doing that course this year when she discovered that there was a male student who had received inferior passes to hers in first year and had been accepted into the second year quota. She went to see the dean of the faculty, who had a quite significant say in who was accepted into the quotas, and asked why she was not accepted into second year when this other student had been. She was told: We are getting too many female graduates in this course and, therefore, we are limiting the number of girls we are allowing into second year'. How dare he! That is not an announced policy of that university, much less of that faculty and much less of that individual. I suggest that he would never dare to put that view in public. That is not his province. It is the province of the public to decide whether there are too many female graduates and then perhaps to come to some conclusion. But for that person to come to that conclusion and to play God with people's lives, without ever telling people publicly what he was doing, is to my mind absolutely unforgivable. If we challenged it, academic freedom would be pleaded. 
There was another case in relation to the same course. It involved a girl who had matriculated and who enrolled in another degree course. She had embarked on that other course when she decided that maybe she had made the wrong decision and should have been in the course to which I was just referring. She then had to make a decision whether to go on with the course in which she was enrolled that year and take the risk of possibly not doing very well and therefore being debarred from the university or to drop out and apply for the first year quota in their preferred course next year. She contacted the dean 's office and was given an appointment a couple of weeks hence. When she turned up for the appointment she found that she was not the only person who had an appointment. There was a young man there for the same purpose and they saw the dean together. I am told that they had the same matriculation results. They were there to find out what would be their chances of acceptance into the first year quota for this other course next year. The girl was told that she may be accepted; the boy was told that he would be accepted. I cannot get a statement in writing from that young girl because she is frightened of what will happen to her chances of getting into the quota next year if she reveals who she is. That is just not acceptable. The playing of that sort of game behind the facade of academic freedom is something that we should not tolerate. I suggest that it will be difficult to break this practice. 
We have heard comments and received complaints in recent times about university lecturers foisting their personal or political opinions on students who then fear that if they do not mouth them, if they do not follow those opinions and if they dare to challenge them in lectures or tutorials they will be failed in examinations. I do not know whether that is true, but the fact is that the fear exists because there has been no objective measurement of these claims. I know of a whole degree course at a university which follows the philosophy of the professor who is in charge of the course. It is a philosophy in what is basically a professional area, which is not generally acceptable to the professionals in that area outside the university. All students who enter that course get only that philosophy. They get it for a compounded reason since the professor has such a large say in the appointment of all other academic staff and is looking for people who mirror his point of view to justify what he is saying which, in the outside world, would be strongly and justifiably under attack. 
How do we meet that situation? I suggest that perhaps we should not send politicians to meddle with it; but, so long as we do not have proper debate established in this Parliament and so long as we think it is a problem for somebody else or it is too specialised for us, this practice will go on and on. With the sort of money that is involved in educational establishments these days, we have a responsibility to ask those questions and to let those who profit from that practice- a small percentage; nevertheless they are there- know that we care and will not stand for it. 
In the time available to me it has been possible to touch on only a couple of points relating to tertiary education; but I suggest that they are the sorts of questions that have to be asked. They have not been asked in the time that I have been in the Parliament. I do not wish to denigrate other senators; but that has not been the tone of education debate so far. The Parliament may decide that that is not the tone of education debate that it wants; but I suggest very strongly that this Parliament is abrogating its responsibilities to the citizens of this country, the people who provide the wherewithal, if it is not prepared at least to think about asking these sorts of questions.  (Quorum formed) 
Is the Minister for Social Security aware that 3 men employed by the Dewez Export Co. of Brisbane were given one week's notice because they refused to pay a voluntary levy of $10 a week sought from members of the Storemen and Packers Union to fund workers sacked in the wool bale dispute in which that Union is demanding a reduction in the maximum bale weight? If the Minister is aware of the news report, does she also know that two of the men, according to that report, do not have other jobs to go to and will join the ranks of the unemployed as from this week? In the circumstances of their dismissal, will these men be eligible for unemployment benefits? 
Is the Minister for Administrative Services aware that drivers in the 
Brisbane transport pool are afraid that since they are not permanent employees they may soon be stood down as a result of the Government's program to reduce the size of the Public Service? Can the Minister give an assurance that this is not the Government's intention? Is the Minister further aware that there is some apprehension that the Government may be considering doing away with the Commonwealth car pool altogether? Can the Minister indicate whether this is so and give an assurance that in any such consideration the opinions of the consumers of the service will be sought? Will the Minister agree that some of the misgivings of the pool car drivers spring from the fact that they do not have permanent employee status? Would it be possible for the Government to investigate a proposal that at least a core of drivers be placed on a permanent basis of employment as a matter of simple industrial justice? 
-Has the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development seen a publication headed 'To all members of the Australian Parliament' and signed 'concerned residents of Lawley House' which was circulated to members and senators recently and which expressed concern at the proposal to increase the tariff at Lawley House and the alleged refusal over past weeks to admit new residents? If the Minister has seen this publication or is familiar with it will he answer some questions in relation to the allegations contained therein? Is it true that Commonwealth Hostels Ltd has never produced a comprehensive and clear financial statement? Are profits from hostels similar to Lawley House used to subsidise migrant hostels? Is it true that the most recent tariff increase, together with the proposed increase, constitutes a government measure to force resignations from the Public Service to help meet staff ceilings? In relation to the second allegation of refusal to admit new residents to Lawley House, is it intended to convert Lawley House into a joint Services mess and to close the hostel altogether as a first step towards eliminating hostel accommodation for Public Service employees in Canberra? 
I rise to speak briefly on the motion that the Senate do now adjourn on a matter relating to broadcasting in south-east Queensland. This matter has been raised in Queensland on a number of occasions and I wish to raise it to give this Government an opportunity to reassess a decision which was made under the previous Government, which was controversial to say the least. The matter pertains to the broadcasting of radio stations in south-east Queensland and northern New South Wales. In May 1975 the Australian Broadcasting Control Board announced that it had made 2 decisions which affected radio stations in this area. One was that radio stations in the Brisbane and Ipswich area were to be given permission to broadcast on 5000 watts in future and that radio stations 4KQ and 4IP were to be given permission to transmit in future from St Helena Island in Moreton Bay. Radio station 4KQ is Brisbane based and radio station 4IP was given a licence to broadcast in the Ipswich area, Ipswich of course being a city some 25 miles distant from Brisbane. 
Objections were made to this decision by a number of radio stations in that area. They were made by Brisbane stations 4BC, 4BH and 4BK, by provincial radio station 4NA which is based on Nambour, 4GY based on Gympie, 4GG, a Gold Coast station, and 2MW which is based on Murwillumbah in northern New South Wales. By giving these 2 Brisbane or Brisbane area radio stations permission to increase their broadcasting strength, as well as permission for them to broadcast from an island, they had a far stronger beam not only into Brisbane but also into the north and south coast areas of Queensland and into northern New South Wales. Radio station 4IP thus became effectively a Brisbane radio station as well as an Ipswich radio station. It had been broadcasting into the Brisbane area for some time and this was not a particular cause of any heartburn amongst Brisbane radio stations. The point of upset was that 4IP and 4KQ were then in a position to compete with stations which had been given their licences and permission to operate on the basis of serving certain provincial city areas of Queensland and northern New South Wales. 
Let me deal briefly with the situation on the Gold Coast first. This area has been previously serviced by 2 radio stations, 4GG and 2MW. Both these stations have reasonable reception from Nerang through to a bit further south than Murwillumbah. People living in that area have received, apart from Australian Broadcasting Commission coverage, reasonable coverage from 2 commercial stations which were granted licences to operate specifically in that area. The broadcasting difficulties in that area of Queensland and New South Wales are not great. The broadcasting difficulties north of Brisbane are a different matter. Radio stations 4NA and 4GY have effectively a very limited area of broadcast because of the terrain. They were not given permission to broadcast at 5000 watts. They remained on the 2000 watt frequency. The mountainous terrain and other difficulties mean that areas in that part of Queensland receive a very much more limited radio service. In certain areas you can receive 4NA or 4GY plus the ABC but in no area can you receive both those commercial stations plus the ABC. There is an area between the 2 cities of Nambour and Gympie in which you can receive neither of the commercial stations because of broadcasting difficulties. 
As I said, the Broadcasting Control Board's decision effectively made available to people who were listening to radios in those areas a further 2 commercial radio stations, stations which had never been granted permission nor had ever entered into any sort of application to broadcast in those areas in competition with either the stations operating there or other people who might have been interested in setting up radio stations. There seems to be some degree of acceptance that the Gold Coast could support another commercial radio licence, but whether or not it could the fact is that if that was a consideration of the Broadcasting Control Board, 4KQ and 4IP got backdoor permission to operate in an area. It is quite possible that other interests could have competed to broadcast in that area. It is quite possible that the broadcasting that would have been given in that area would have been more beneficial to the people living in that area. 
The Brisbane and Ipswich radio stations that I have mentioned tend to generalise or specialise. Some of them have a special type of broadcasting. One station, for example, specialises in a particular type of music, which it calls 'beautiful music'. Other radio stations choose to specialise in pop music. Some specialise in talk-back programs and so on. Where there are a number of stations this is possible. The listeners then have a choice between a number of different types of programs. If they particularly fancy one of the very specialised types of programming they can listen to it all day and all night. 
In the areas outside Brisbane listeners and broadcasters have not had this opportunity. A radio station such as 4NA or 4GY, or either of the other 2 stations, performs a very particular social role in the area in which it is broadcasting. In areas such as those served by the Nambour and Gympie stations the broadcasters feel an obligation to provide during the course of the day as many different types of programs as they can. This means that the people living in those areas do not have the opportunity to tune into one of the particular types of programming and listen to it all day. This, of course, is one of the difficulties of living in a provincial area. Radio in these areas needs to perform a positive community role. That community role is rather different from the community role which may or may not be expected of capital city radio stations. It is certainly a role far closer to the community as it has been operating than that of the role of any of the Brisbane radio stations, and I mean no offence to the Brisbane radio stations. There is, as I have said, a different need in provincial areas. As I have also said, the Gold Coast, which may have a case for further radio licences, got 2 extra stations without that opportunity being available to broadcasters. There is no case for further radio stations in the area to the north of Brisbane. That area could not support another radio station in terms of population and in terms of the commercial support from advertisers which would be necessary. The powers that be have decided that 2 stations, for the moment, is the optimum number. That is effectively only one in each area. 
There is one other issue to which I must advert before I refer to the consequences of that situation. I am informed that 4IP when given permission to transmit from St Helena was required to indicate to the Australian Broadcasting Control Board that it would broadcast a signal of a strength at least equal to the signal that was being received previously in the Ipswich area. I am informed that it has been a matter of public comment, even by those responsible for that radio station, that its signal is only at most threequarters of the strength of the signal that it is supposed to be sending into Ipswich. But that area is not the problem. No one in that area is complaining or feels that community services are in jeopardy. But I think it ought to be mentioned. Quite clearly, an undertaking was required from 4IP because it was supposed to be an Ipswich station. As far as we can ascertain, that undertaking has not been met and 4IP has not, in any way, been called to account on that matter. 
The fact is that 4IP and potentially 4KQ are operating in a particular way in those additional areas into which they beam, lt is no answer to say that this is some sort of windfall, that they just happened to go into those areas and that it was not something they particularly wanted. Station 4IP has set up an office on the Gold Coast. It employs an advertising sales team from that office. It is pursuing a vigorous campaign to sell advertising time in the Gold Coast area and, of course, to try, if possible, to take away advertising sales from the existing radio stations. One could argue whether or not the existing radio stations can afford that sort of competition. There is no doubt that the north coast radio stations cannot afford that sort of competition. At the moment only 4IP is acting in the way I have described, but 4KQ is broadcasting with exactly the same strength. So long as 4IP acts in this way it is always open to 4KQ to do the same thing. We could find that shortly these 2 radio stations will be vigorously selling their wares in that area. 
I am informed that 4IP arranged an open air concert or pop festival at Christmas time. I am informed also that it was to be held as a promotional exercise in the north coast area at a cost of $5,000. So, there is no doubt about its intentions in that area even though it may not have reached the stage yet of opening a sales office in the area. Because of our notorious wet weather during the last summer season the concert was washed out. This, of course, has nothing to do with the end result. Broadcasting operators in those areas now have strong evidence that they are losing advertising. People who wish to advertise for commercial and other reasons are buying advertising time on Brisbane radio stations. Because they are buying advertising time on 4IP as well, they are now advising radio stations in the provincial areas that they will no longer be buying advertising time with them because 4IP and 4KQ are covering those areas. There is written evidence that that course of action is being taken by some people. 
The reason I raise this matter is that I want to make a simple request to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson).  So far as I am aware this matter was not raised in the Senate last year. It was certainly a matter of some public controversy in Queensland. Whether it has been raised previously in this place, I believe it is a matter to which the Minister ought to direct his attention. If 4IP is not meeting the broadcasting requirements that were put on it in relation to Ipswich then whatever action is relevant ought to be taken. If it appears that through a decision of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board in 1975 there are serious implications regarding a back door new licence or there is a threat to the viability of radio stations in the provincial areas which are playing a very positive social role in those areas, then something ought to be done about it. Very simply, of course, radio stations 4IP and 4KQ could be asked to beam their signals in a way that will prevent them having the same strength in the areas to the south and to the north of Brisbane. This must be considered in fairness to those who established radio stations in the area and who have tried conscientiously in my opinion- I speak from my direct experience and also as a listener- to carry out their important social broadcasting role. I appeal to the Minister this evening to indicate whether the Government can do anything and to say, if possible, what can be done. I ask the Minister to take up this matter and to use his good offices with those responsible so that what is clearly an injustice will be rectified. 
I rise to add a brief postscript to the speech I made during the adjournment debate last night. At the conclusion of the debate  Senator Carrick,  the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  in this place, was good enough to say that he would refer to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications the text of the  Hansard  report on the debate and to invite him to pursue the matter and to investigate the points made. I want to raise one other matter which I realise I could possibly raise directly with the Minister, but a slightly different issue is involved although there are some parallels so far as the Australian Broadcasting Control Board is concerned. 
Last night I referred to the role of certain Brisbane radio stations beaming their signals into areas served by regional stations. Another case has come to my attention relating to a number of regional stations. The Brisbane situation is not involved. The case revolves around the city of Toowoomba which has a population of approximately 70 000. That city, as well as having an Australian Broadcasting Commission transmission has 2 commercial stations. One is 4GR, which has been established for a long time, and the other is 4AK, which was formerly a regional relay station for 4BK, a Brisbane station, but is now a full regional station with its own programs. So that city is already served by 2 commercial stations as well as the ABC. 
The city of Warwick lies some distance to the south of Toowoomba, if my geography is correct, and is served by one commercial radio station, 4WK. Last year 4WK acted on the invitation of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board to make a case for increasing its transmission power. It increased its power from 2000 watts to 5000 watts. This has given it a signal which transmits strongly into the Toowoomba area with the undoubted result that effectively Toowoomba now has 3 commercial radio stations. There is some upset and unhappiness about this in Toowoomba. Another commercial radio station has been added to that area effectively without any such policy decision having been announced by the Broadcasting Control Board and without being put up to scrutiny by members of the industry and other interested parties. 
I understand that when radio stations are given permission to increase their transmission power from 2000 watts to 5000 watts some conditions are usually applied relating to the direction of the beam that is sent out and the area that it covers. I am not aware of the sort of conditions that were imposed on 4WK in this case. However, I mentioned last night the conditions which I understood had been imposed on 4IP and as far as anyone can tell are not being enforced. It is quite possible that this also comes into that category. As I said, the fact is that Toowoomba now has 3 commercial radio stations without anybody having been invited to operate as a commercial station in Toowoomba- again a  de facto  situation coming from a city lying some distance to the south of Toowoomba. 
Station 4WK has transferred its entire sales staff and sales office to Toowoomba. It retains only one member of its staff in Warwick. So there can be no doubt about the intentions of 4WK operating as a commercial station in Toowoomba. I am also informed that there is some unhappiness in Warwick about the fact that the one commercial radio station it has is now concentrating its efforts in Toowoomba. Station 4WK is supposed to serve Warwick in the way regional commercial radio stations are expected to serve local communities. There is also some unhappiness in Warwick about the fact that it has effectively lost its regional radio station's involvement in community activity. All of that station's sales staff except one is now in Toowoomba, so the implications are clear. 
Frequently in debates on matters of this type it is pointed out that such decisions are made by statutory corporations, but I do not think that this in any way precludes a member of Parliament from seeking information. I should like to know why such a decision has been made, not just in terms of transmissions and the positioning of masts. I should like to know the Board 's policy and attitude to this sort of case in terms of the social effects of its decisions. I should like to know whether the Board is engaging in the sort of follow-up that is necessary with respect to the restrictions that are placed on regional radio stations when they are given certain privileges and opportunities to increase their strength of transmission. Is the Board aware of the effects that the sort of decision to which I have referred can have on other areas? I would assume that the Board is aware and, if so, I want to know why it made this sort of decision. 
As I said earlier, I intended to make only a brief speech. I have made it because the case I have raised is slightly different from matters normally associated with regional radio stations. I should be pleased if the Minister could possibly make some comment tonight. I certainly hope that he will bring this situation which could exist in other areas of Queensland and other areas of Australia for all I know, to the attention of the appropriate Minister. Perhaps we as representatives of the public may, in the public interest, get some satisfaction from a statutory body. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I ask for leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Social Security. It relates to newspaper reports over the weekend on the subject of the Government's intentions with respect to child endowment. Is the Minister aware that these reports allege that the Government intends either to abolish child endowment, to means-test it, or to review eligibility depending on the number of children in a family? I ask the Minister: Is there any truth in these reports? 
-We are addressing ourselves to the States Grants (Schools) Bill 1976 and, if I may say so, we have heard a couple of very interesting contributions to the debate. I should like to comment on a couple of things that  Senator Ryan  said. I think she made a very worthwhile contribution to the debate. We are aware that she has some background in education. But I suggest to  Senator Ryan  that she needs to be a little more objective in her approach to debates on education, and that a debate on education should not be devoted to protecting the Schools Commission and the previous roles of this person and that person and different governments. 

 Senator Ryan put to us at great length and very forcefully the proposition that only a federal body is necessarily responsive to needs in certain areas of education. I say to  Senator Ryan  that that is demonstrably not so. There is plenty of evidence that federal bodies have not been as responsive as they should be. The honourable senator did mention the case of isolated children. I illustrate my claim with the following example. Last year I put to the previous Minister for Education,  Mr Beazley,  personally and in a debate on educational matters in the Senate that there were particular needs in the area of education of isolated children of which and to which the Government was ignorant and unresponsive. The situation is simply that some children in very isolated areas of Australia can conduct their studies only by correspondence. Through a series of actions of the previous Government, both by increasing costs for people who run air services and concurrently reducing subsidies for delivery of mail, the cost of delivering correspondence lessons in a large area of Australia became prohibitive. So a number of isolated children could not get their correspondence lessons because their parents could not afford to pay $27 a week for the privilege of a once-a-week mail service. We have heard much about buildings that are too crowded, buildings that are too cold or too hot, too many children per teacher and so on, but what of the student who has no education at all? 
That is the problem faced by many isolated children. That would seem to me to be an urgent and obvious area of need. This problem was pointed out but there was absolutely no response. As  Senator Ryan  said, a Senate committee is looking at the matter and I hope that eventually it will come up with some response. Nevertheless, there is never any guarantee of action by a federal government. 
This does not take away from many of the things that the Schools Commission did and was attempting to do when the Government last year, because of economic problems brought on by its own mismanagement, chose to abandon the Schools Commission report. However, I point out to  Senator Ryan,  as a particuarly strong defender of the Schools Commission, that in the Commission's report on the triennium 1976-78 there is a special section reporting the problems of education of isolated children. It did not mention the problem that I have just mentioned but certainly it talked about other problems that apply in those areas. It mentioned the problems relating to attracting and keeping teachers but it did not touch on the area I have just mentioned. So federal bodies, even very good federal bodies like the Schools Commission, are not infallible. There is need for comment and contribution from other areas. I shall come back to this matter. 
One good thing that has happened recently in debates in the Senate on these subjects- and indeed it is happening this evening- is that there has been constructive debate on the subject of education. As an ex-educationist, I grew increasingly frustrated during the last Parliament to hear debates on education couched in the Senate solely in terms of money spent. This brings me to another concept which was developed by  Senator Ryan.  There seems to be an idea in our community that money spent on education is necessarily money well spent. I do not mean to do  Senator Ryan  an injustice by misrepresenting this aspect of her speech- she spoke at length on this, and there are some other things that I want to say as briefly and as fairly as I can.  Senator Ryan  said that money can improve education and that money has improved education. I do not dispute either of those claims. Nevertheless I ask two questions: To what end and, how absolute is that improvement? It is not enough to say that money can improve education. Nobody will dispute that. It is not enough to say that money has improved education in Australia in recent years. Nobody would dispute that. But many people would dispute that the money has necessarily been well spent; that the needs have necessarily been well identified; that there has been a weighing up against other areas of need of the sorts of problems that I mentioned in relation to isolated children who have no education available to them at all, let alone sufficient education. 
Money buys a lot of things. It buys school buildings certainly and there have been pressures from areas where it has been necessary to have more school buildings, but the results of spending more money on school buildings has sometimes been not good but bad. I recently visited a Queensland school which has just been re-built on a new site. The whole school had been built on an open plan system. The building was occupied only this year; the planning and approval was fairly recent. I am told that open planning has fallen into some disrepute. Nevertheless, here is a brand new school, built in 1975 for occupation in 1976, and somebody has to take the responsibility for the end result. The whole school is open plan. It happens to be situated in a quite affluent area. However, it also happens to be in an area with particular social problems. The headmaster has informed me that between 30 per cent and 40 per cent of the students at that school come from single parent families, from broken homes. The children come to the school with particular problems as a result of that and are affected by the open plan school. Because of the social problems that the headmaster was encountering within the school, he started conducting surveys. Obviously the surveys are still fairly new at this stage, but the preliminary results show that in reaction to a total open plan system, given this group of children, the children did not identify with anybody in the school. The headmaster believes that there is a potential in the school for turning out hundreds, if not thousands ultimately, of individuals who are unable to relate to anybody. Given a personally and socially deprived background, but not a financially deprived background, given a particular sort of deprivation of relationship to teachers in the classroom these children, these potential future citizens, are going to carry with them a liability which, for all we know, they may never be able to overcome. Open plan buildings are good up to a certain point, but whose advice do we accept? 
Frankly, as an ex-educationist, I have been concerned for a long time about the sort of advice that people with responsibility for decisions seek and accept. I think that more people who are involved in different areas of education are now realising that they too ought to be a little more concerned, that they ought to ask more questions about the advice they are given. I have been to schools- I think that probably all honourable senators have had a similar experience- where a large amount of money has been spent on certain equipment. Some years ago there was a vogue for language laboratories in high schools as a means of advancing the teaching of foreign languages. Language laboratories are now pretty largely discredited as being very significant in the process of teaching languages. An enormous amount of money is now tied up in a resource which cannot be converted to anything else and with a very limited use but which was installed through a program of propaganda and persuasion, both verbally and by the media, which claimed that language laboratories were marvellous things and something which every school which proposed to teach languages ought to have. 
I have been to schools which have the most elaborate audio visual equipment but, because they are old schools, they do not have enough power points to plug in the equipment. In fact, in some of the older schools there just is not an electrical system which could support the equipment. That is one criticism of old school buildings, but in each case the teachers in those schools told me that they were less concerned about that than about the fact that there were students at the school whose parent or parents were so poorly off that the children did not have pencils and paper. If the children were to have those sorts of basic educational equipment then the teachers had to buy them out of their own pockets. I am not apportioning blame for one minute to the Schools Commission or to the previous Government. I am simply saying that in the past the whole attitude towards education has been so simple but essentially so muddled, that the consequence is many examples of wastage where there was need which had not been met. 
I agree with  Senator Ryan.  That brings me to the subject of community participation which, as chance would have it, is the very next thing I had listed on my paper. Certainly there is a very good argument for devolution of authority and responsibility. I suggest to anybody who wants to talk about devolution of responsibility that they should not mix up those two terms but that they should realise that one cannot go without the other. If authority is handed down to somebody to make certain decisions and to have certain discretions, then with it must go the responsibility for the consequences of those decisions. That is not an argument against participation; that is not an argument against devolution. I am just saying that should be the basis of any consideration. Many people who are interested in that aspect of educational change certainly are responsible people and accept that responsibility, but there are others who have not thought the matter through. There are others who have a knee-jerk reaction: Our children will be better off because we will be able to say that this is more necessary than that. Our children will be better off because we are going to be able to participate in the running of schools, and we do not like everything that is going on in the schools'. With that authority must go the responsibility and, as I have said, we should not confuse the two. 
Essentially, what I am trying to draw fairly quickly is a thesis that we have a responsibility to look at who should be advising on education and who should be criticising, and whether they should be the same people. If there are shortcomings in education, that is, if there are particular needs, one would expect that as long as there is available a sufficient body of people who are interested, then that will lead to public criticism. This essentially has been the process. One hopes that public criticism will lead to action. But by whom?  Senator Ryan  has said that a Federal body is the only body which would be necessarily responsive. I suggest that is not necessarily so. A lot of muddled thinking on the matter of who ought to be responsive and who ought to have responsibility and authority in the whole area of government, but specifically in the area of education, has led us into some error. It has led to our reacting at various levels to the wrong ideas or reacting to the right ideas for the wrong reasons. 
Some time ago there was a very strong argument abroad- it is now rather more limited because much more money has since been spent on education- which virtually based the whole educational argument on the substance of staffstudent ratios. Certainly as long as we had in our schools a staff-student ratio of 50 : 1 , 40 : 1 or perhaps 30 : 1 those of us who were involved in education knew that there was a problem. The group most involved in promoting the need for some action in that area of course was the teachers. I suggest that there is a limit to how effective the continual reduction of staff-student ratios that can be. The Minister has mentioned this matter previously. We have to be careful about how far we are going to go in reacting to it. Certainly if we had a 1 : 1 ratio then we would expect that we would have better educated students. But parents however are aware that an enormously increased amount of money, not just in the last 3 years but comparatively over the last 10 or 20 years, has been spent on education. They are aware that a larger amount of the public resource has gone into the area of primary, secondary and tertiary education, and in latter years into pre-school education. They are aware that therefore they have paid a higher amount of tax than if this process had not taken place and was not continuing to take place. They are also aware that more and more students who are illiterate are being produced from high schools. In some areas it is difficult to argue which is chicken and which is egg on this question. Some remedial teachers will argue that general teachers are a little more aware of the problem and therefore they pick it up more quickly, or are more likely to be tolerant and look for some cause for illiteracy other than assuming that Johnny or Mary is stupid and dull and lazy. But there are matriculating into our universities people who cannot compose or comprehend English. Remedial English classes have been set up in universities in this country. That did not happen before, and there has not been any substantial increase in the pass rate in universities, extended entrance quotas notwithstanding. There has definitely been a development along those lines. As a consequence parents ask themselves some fairly simple questions, but I do not know that they always get the right answers. Of course, an educational backlash is going on and there is a very real risk that we might throw out the baby with the bath water in this area. As a result of pressures for literacy rates to be improved, we might undertake some retrograde steps in the area of education. We have to be very careful of that reaction, and the only real defence that those of us who care about education are going to have against it is if we have properly thought out, debated and researched the area. 
That brings me back to the point: Who should be advising on direction and who should be criticising? I suggest that State education departments do have a role to play, but they are probably not the only ones involved. In the past we have depended very heavily on educationists and other academic students of the subject of education but who have no responsibility in the field, or on researchers. They are professionals, people having a very particular expertise. But I suggest that we have bent our education departments and have reacted to them far too much in the past. They have come up with some ideas which any teacher can look at and laugh at because they are absolutely ludicrous. Time does not permit me to go into the detail, but a great deal of money is going into the academic area for the purpose of producing theories which are absolutely useless at the 'coal face' in the classroom situation. We can look to the consumers; we can ask the students what they want. So long as they are capable of objective analysis, they can probably suggest something of worth. We must look to society because society must want education for it to exist, if it is going to continue to contribute this massive resource. As I said, until just recently the attitude has been that the assumption was to be that education was a good thing and that therefore money spent on education was money well spent. That proposition no longer can be accepted. Governments must play a role in advising and criticising because to some extent the people in Government and in Opposition are those who have the role of reading what society wants and interpreting that into actual action. 
Commissions also have a role to play. The Schools Commission, as it happens, has a very particular composition which is a very interesting one and, I think, a very worthwhile one. I would not say that it is necessarily immutable for all time. It may be necessary that as one commissioner retires somebody from a different field will be appointed to take his or her place. It is not meant to be representative of different fields, but it has been possible nevertheless to draw together a body of people with expertise in a very wide range of educational fields to advise the Government. However, there is nothing holy or sacred about the Schools Commission. I think it has an on-going role and that the Federal Government has an on-going national responsibility. 
I believe that the Federal Government has a very definite on-going role, but I do not accept the thesis that State education departments are necessarily more rigid than the Federal Education Department, that State education departments are necessarily less responsive. 

 Senator Ryan said, I think I am quoting her correctly, that no State education department is in a position to provide for research. That is nonsense. Various State education departments are carrying on substantial research from which a worthwhile reading of the effect 'at the coal face', which is very important, can be fed back to those who are making decisions. The State departments are aware of special needs in particular areas of education and of particualr diversities within their own States. On the particular aspect of the education of isolated children that I mentioned earlier, I say again to  Senator Ryan  that it is possible that one of the reasons that the Commonwealth Government was not aware of that problem is that it occurs in just a couple of far-flung areas of Australia- north-west Queensland and northern Western Australia in particular. That sort of information, that sort of knowledge, had to be available and it is more readily available to State education departments. 
We have been indulging in some discussion on the subject of federalism. I hope that under our federalism policy it will be no longer good enough for a State government to say: 'We cannot do the things that you the public would like us to do in the area of education because the Federal Government has all the money.' State governments have had some money for some time. Indeed, they have spent very large sums of money over periods of time, but it has been too easy to pass the buck to the Federal Government. It has been too easy to condition people to think in terms of looking to Canberra. 
There are many inbuilt historic factors affecting education. We have a very special inbuilt historic lag in Queensland. I am not pursuing just cheap party politics, but it is worth pointing out because it is a subject which is raised continually in my State. Up until 1957 when Queensland had a State Labor Government, there were, apart from the domestic science and the technical State high schools, 3 State high schools in the city of Brisbane, a city of approximately half a million people at that time. When the State Labor Government lost office there was a tremendous expansion in the number of high schools, in particular, built throughout Queensland. However, there were problems in other areas of the State and while proportionately a large amount of the State's resources went to schools at that time there were problems to be met in other areas. 
Yes, and other people like  Mr Duggan,  Premier Theodore and Premier Hanlon too. They all had their hand in it over a very long period of time. Indeed, I could also include former State Secretary Keeffe of the Labor Party. The fact is that there was an inbuilt historic lag in many areas of public concern in Queensland, and some provision had also to be made in areas other than education to ensure that those immediate problems were met in the short term. It becomes too easy to build that historic lag into the system. It may be necessary to have continued involvement by Federal governments in areas of particular educational need, but I would not like to see arise a situation in which a State government would know that it could allow its education system to lag a little behind because ultimately it would be the responsibility of the Federal Government to provide even more money to that State to make up that gap. It is terribly important that State governments justify the priorities they put on education as against other areas when they make their own decisions in relation to their own State Budgets. Therefore I would welcome devolution of that sort of authority and responsibility. 
I do not intend to make any comment at this stage on the opposition's foreshadowed amendments. I would prefer to reserve my comments on them until the Committee stage. I can only commend the Minister for the very real attempt that he is making to get the educational system to respond in areas where there is still need. I suggest that the needs have not been ultimately denned or met by the Schools Commission, although I must commend it for having gone so far towards doing so in certain areas. 
Does the Minister for Administrative Services recall my asking him a question in the Senate some weeks ago regarding the Government's intention in relation to the future employment of Commonwealth car drivers in Brisbane? Does the Minister recall that I asked him whether it was true then that the Government intended continuing their employment and whether he was aware that there were rumours circulating that their employment was to be terminated? Does the Minister recall assuring me at that time that that was not the Government's intention? Is the Minister aware now that some of these drivers have again been told, I am informed, by certain Labor Federal members of Parliament that their jobs are once more at risk? Can the Minister please give a clear and final assurance so that these rumours can no longer be peddled for political reasons? 

 -Mr Chairman, I have no wish to extend the debate in Committee for long. We had a very long second reading debate on the Bill. We seem to be covering some of the same points again, but I feel that I must reply to a couple of things that have been said. The Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  has pointed out already that there is nothing in this Bill that prohibits the devolution of discretion to school boards.  Senator Ryan  has said that the amendment does not apply to coercion, that it is merely a first small step. She has agreed that the action that she would like to see is not prohibited now. We have agreed in the course of the second reading debate that we would all like to see that happen and that it is not prohibited now. The honourable senator went on to say that it will not occur naturally and therefore she cannot see why we object to the amendment. 
I have to admit to an objection to having legislation made to look like nonsense. Clause 1 1 (2) states, in effect, that financial assistance to a State is granted under certain conditions. If we were to insert the words that this amendment seeks to insert, the clause would read that money:  . . is granted on the condition that- . . . (aa) after consultation with the Schools Commission the Commonwealth Education Minister may permit the allocation of a specific amount from the schools allocation to be spent at the discretion of the school board. 
We appear already to have an agreement that the Minister is not now precluded from using his discretion. I cannot imagine why we need it written into the Bill that the Minister needs permission to do something that is not precluded anyway. I suggest to you,  Mr Chairman,  that the amendment makes for nonsense reading. 
If honourable senators opposite really want to bring some sort of moral pressure to bear from the Senate on to State governments to set up school boards and find the means whereby responsibility can be handed down to groups which are interested in the running of the schools, I suggest that she move a motion during a debate on general business and we can vote on it. I do not think she would meet with much opposition to it. But for the sake of just putting in words that do not need to be there - 

 - Senator Button can have his turn. He can rise, and catch the Chairman's eye and when he receives the call he can say what he wishes to say at very much greater length. I have no doubt he will because he has done it in the past. I am pointing out that I have an objection to a Bill being made to look like nonsense just for the sake of having inserted in it an opinion on an aspect of educational theory. The Minister has pointed out that the Schools Commission does not believe there should be coercion. The Opposition agrees that there should not be coercion. The Opposition says that its amendment is not meant to have the effect of coercion. If it is not meant to have any effect other than a moral effect, it has no place in the Bill. What I was saying- perhaps  Senator Button  was not listening very closely at the time- is that if honourable senators opposite want an expression of general opinion on the matter or if they want to take a moral stance in the chamber and tell the State education departments what they should be doing in this area, there are alternatives open to us other than amending the Bill. 
Question put: 
That the paragraph proposed to be inserted  (Senator Wriedt's amendment)  be inserted. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Has the Minister seen an article in yesterday's  Daily Mirror  headed PMG Men Accused of Swindle' which contains allegations by a former Telecommunications Commission linesman that telephone subscribers are footing the bill for Australia-wide calls recorded on subscribers' meters but made by Commission technicians with tapping devices, achieved by the technician either by clipping a portable automatic dialling device onto overhead lines and then attaching markers to cables to remind him when a householder is away, thereby allowing others to misuse the line as well, or by attaching a dialling device to a subscriber's severed cable in a metal street terminal box? Is it a fact that regulations require that any such use of a subscriber's telephone be reported to enable a credit to be made for that service? If so, is it possible for the Minister to inform the Senate what records are kept of such calls reported to and credited by the Commission? If records are kept, are details of the number of calls made available to any subscriber whose service has been used in this way? Is it true that a linesman who did not report that he had made a call on a subscriber's line could be dismissed? If so, what attempts are made to detect this dishonesty and how many Commission employees have been dismissed for this reason? 
I bring up the report of Estimates Committee D, together with the  Hansard  record of the evidence taken. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-We have had an interesting and quite thoughtful speech from the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt).  It is quite obvious that he has given some deep thought to the issues raised in the statement made last Thursday. It is therefore surprising that he has chosen to overlook some of the even quite obvious and simple answers to the questions which he raised. 
I commend the Government on the approach which it has adopted from the time it has taken office and which it has continued in the statement which we received last week. The problems in Australia are clear. The most urgent problem is simply recognised and expressed. It is getting our economy back on to some sort of even keel. There are the problems of providing jobs for people, of stopping the ravages of inflation as it applies to individual citizens and as it affects the future of our nation as a trading nation. I am a little surprised at the allegation made by  Senator Wriedt  that the Government has moved away from an investment-led recovery to a consumerled recovery. The Government recognises that both areas are important in the eventual recovery of the Australian economy. 

 Senator Wriedt made some allegations in relation to the investment allowance and said that businessmen just are not taking it up. I do not know on what basis the honourable senator makes that allegation. The allowance is a quite recent one. Some special provisions were made for the first 6 months of this year to give a particular incentive, but the allowance will be ongoing and will provide very valuable encouragement to business to expand in order to provide more jobs through its expansion, directly and indirectly, in the goods and services that it will purchase in the form of investment. No evidence was presented by  Senator Wriedt,  and I know of none, which would indicate that his allegation is well founded. Certainly it has been my experience that whilst people with investments to make initially asked many questions and sought clarification of some areas, they welcomed the initiative and have shown every sign, so far as I am aware, of intending to take up the investment allowance. 
We need both types of recovery- investment and consumer. In that context it is interesting to look at the Government's intentions in relation to public spending. The Minister representing the Treasurer in this House last week made several references to this, and I should like to refer briefly to a couple of short passages from the speech that he made. At page 1796 of the Senate  Hansard  the Minister said: 
The measures which will shortly be outlined will enable the Government to regain control of the national Budget- a task which is essential to the attack on inflation and unemployment and returning the private sector to its rightful role. 

 Senator Wriedt chose to interpret that as meaning that the Government was not going to only cut back as has been announced already this year but cut back further and further in the future. He pointed out that the share of public sector spending had risen in 3 years from 25 per cent to 3 1 per cent and he invited the Government to nominate the figure for which it is aiming. He asked the question: What will be future areas of cuts? If the Government is successful in stimulating the private sector, as I believe it will be, many of our problems in the public sector will be overcome. 
One of the great difficulties created for the Government in the last 3 years of socialist government was the accelerating imbalance effect that the Labor Government's policies had on the economy. As its policies gained momentum, as inflation spiralled, as it made no attempt to move into its areas of responsibility in the industrial sector and as wages took off like a rocket, it became impossible for significant sections of the private sector to survive. The Treasurer last year indicated that one of the sources of great difficulty for the Government in its deficit and in its budgeting was that it could not collect the amount of income tax it might have hoped to collect, that previous projections of tax income were wrong. Because the Labor Government through its many policies hit the private sector so hard, the Government hit itself. It reduced its potential for collecting money in the form of taxes from businesses and from individuals. Accelerating unemployment and the snowballing effect that that had last year could only compound the problem, and that alone would have meant that the proportion of public sector spending would grow. 
It is the present Government's intention to stimulate the private sector in a way that will provide jobs for Australians, in a way that will add to the country's productivity and, as a consequence, will result in more money for the Government to spend in the public sector because it will collect more tax through more people being employed. A revival of the private sector is essential if the Government is to pursue its programs. I should have thought that many people in Australia now had finally realised that a strong private sector is important if a government is to carry out programs which are considered socially desirable. I should have thought that many people in Australia now understand far better than they had understood three or four years ago that the Government purse is not a bottomless pit and the bottomless pit financing, as indulged in by the Labor Government, particularly in its first 2 years in office, is a disaster for the economic fabric of the country. There is a limit to the Government's resources. Certainly it can go on building up larger and larger deficits. It can do that in theory, but eventually the chickens come home to roost. The fact is that to a large extent in 3 short years Labor wrecked our relative trading position with other countries, and I personally believe that the damage done in that area in some cases will take anything up to 10 years to mend. The previous Labor Government set us back in some areas to where we were 20 years ago and 20 years of wise policies and hard work on the part of individual Australians went by the board. It is that sort of mending that has to be undertaken by the present Government. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has said many times that if Australians want more Government spending, if they want more programs, if they want to expand programs which exist currently and if they want the introduction of new programs, they must realise that the country must produce in such a way that governments can expand and introduce programs without causing the sort of disruption from which we suffer presently. As I said before, stimulation to the private sector will be the key to enable us to do that. Increased productivity is the assurance for future generations of Australians that they will live in a better country. The sort of advances that were made in the 20 years before the Labor Government in terms of real standards of living and in terms of Government programs, new and expanded, in themselves are the proof of what I am alleging. 
I welcome the Government's program. I welcome it as showing that this Government intends to protect the weak, to keep what protection there is and to expand it in other areas, and as showing that the Government is prepared to take on the difficulty of planned and orderly growth. 
It is not possible to provide more and more government services or transfer payments from the Budget without ultimately having to pay for them through cutting back aftertax earnings by increased taxes. 
That impinges on what I said previously, but it also indicates that if we are to maintain reasonable protection for the weak we must recognise that that protection falls within that general framework and the way it is supported. 
The Government has indicated that it will make 6-monthly increases in pensions, and the first increase due to be introduced since the Government came into office has already been given. I have heard no criticism, and I hope I hear none, of the Government's intention to tax certain pensions on the same basis as the age pension is currently taxed. People are not silly. It is not only people in politics and in Parliament professionally who are aware of what actually goes on in the community. When decent hardworking people who hold down jobs all year round and work hard all year round see that certain individuals in the community can work for a number of months of the year and earn a very large sum of money, taking into account the length of time that they work, and can then go on the dole and receive a tax-free income for the rest of the year, they realise that they are being done'. They know they are paying taxes, in working 52 weeks of the year in order to support people who choose to work for only a short period of the year. The people who choose to work for only a short period of the year may fall into one of 2 categories. It may be that they are employed in seasonal industries and their employment lasts for only a limited period during the year. Or it may be that they have deliberately taken on high-paying jobs in certain areas and have received, in a few months, a very high income and have then chosen not to work again for the rest of the year, knowing that they can live on their 'fat' combined with a certain taxfree income from the Government in the form of the dole. 
That is not a fabrication or a fiction. I know it to be a fact in the case of many young men in Queensland, particularly those who work in the construction and the mining industries where huge sums of money, more than the annual wage of many people in our community, can be earned in perhaps 6 months. It is because of people in the second category who do not seriously attempt to get work and who would choose to live, as I said earlier, off their 'fat' and on a taxfree income that the Government must set up machinery to make sure that that additional income is not tax free. Many supporting statements have been put on this matter. It has been pointed out that people in an income bracket of about only $ 100 a week are not affected. There is a slightly higher range in which, given the fact that the persons concerned may have dependantssay, a wife and 2 children- their normal deductions at income tax time would cover whatever tax they would pay on that additional payment from the Government for the rest of the year. 
I warmly welcome the decision of the Government to transfer some of its resources to the area of real need. It will never cease to be a matter of amazement to me that the Whitlam Government did not take any notice of the Henderson report as it dealt with family allowances. The previous 
Government was fond of pointing out that certain suggestions contained in the Henderson report had been implemented. Why it chose to overlook the family allowances it never chose to explain. It is interesting that it has taken a couple of days for some political commentators to realise one of the most important effects of the family allowance. It was stressed last week that the new measure would mean support for families who are really in the low income bracket. Figures relating to the number of families on low incomes have been referred to. There are about 300 000 low income families with about 800 000 children. In total, more than one million people were not benefitting from assistance through the tax system. The children and these families will now benefit. 
The previous system was of no assistance to low income families. I must query a statement made by  Senator Wriedt.  He said that low income families will come out about even. I dispute that. I suggest to  Senator Wridet  that the evidence suggests that low income families will benefit very much. People in a low income bracket who pay little or no tax will not, of course, be paying the Medibank levy. They will still have all the benefits which those who pay the levy receive. They will be receiving the family allowance for their children free of tax. 
The previous tax deduction system was of no benefit to the low income family. It benefited only the middle class and the wealthy. Only those who were paying substantial amounts of tax could benefit from the deductions. It makes far better sense to introduce non-taxed family allowances of a substantial nature, as recommended by Professor Henderson, to make sure that the poor families really do get some benefit. All the evidence shows that these families are large families, migrant families or families with only one parent. These people have been in a very poor situation indeed. They will get real assistance to meet their problems of rearing, properly caring for and educating their children. 
Another aspect which took the political commentators a little while to recognise- it was recognised after a couple of days- is that the Government has given some measure of recognition to the role of the woman in the one-income family where there are 2 parents. In that situation it averages out; the loss of tax deduction is about equal to what is paid in family allowances. The simple fact is that income has been redistributed from husband to wife. Since family allowances are paid to the woman, it is income for her. Since the tax rebate is paid to the man in all those cases, it is a loss of income for him. So it is a redistribution of income from husband to wife. This is particularly important in the case of the many families in Australia where young children are being reared and where the wife and mother decides that the best role she can play, in relation to the welfare of her family, is to remain at home and not go out into the work force. Our country has always freeloaded on these women. They have been women who have looked after children, who have made a real contribution to the economy in a diverse number of ways but who have never received proper recognition. I am glad that the Government did not just chose to increase the dependant's allowance but to give some recognition to the meaningful role played by the woman in this situation by introducing the family allowances system. 
The other matter that I would like to mention is education. I cannot mention all aspects of the Government's proposals because we have agreed to limit our time. As I said earlier, to my mind the key of the Government's policies in the statement of last week is that we have set out to protect the weak, we have set out to transfer government resources to areas of real need and, just as importantly, we have set out to introduce some basis of reasonable planning in all areas of government activity. It was not really an introduction of reasonable planning in the education area; it was a re-introduction. The previous Government chose to abandon the triennial system of funding last year. It chose to do so abruptly and this has had a drastic effect on certain areas of education planning. The facts are that in the tertiary education area, where a long lead time is necessary for the employment of new staff either for new positions or to replace staff who retire, universities and tertiary institutes were in a difficult position when it came to staff planning. They did not know beyond the current educational financial year just what they would be getting. 
I was a little puzzled again by some of  Senator Wriedt  's comments. I should have thought that it was quite reasonable to give a basis of comparison on the 1975 figures. The fact is, of course, that education budgeting is done on a calendar year basis. I understand that the figures used were December 1975 figures. December 1975 would seem to be a reasonable base on which to talk about calendar year planning for education in 1976 and 1977. The Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  and the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in their statements made it clear that the increase in spending will be in real terms as against money terms. 
They are the terms with which we have to concern ourselves while inflation remains high. We are not opting out of education, as  Senator Wriedt  said. We have re-introduced long range planning in education on a slightly different basis- a basis which is well known, which people are familiar with and which operates elsewhere. Instead of fixed triennial planning, there will be rolling triennial planning whereby the commissions will be informed of the minimum figures that the Government will spend as the minimum amount of planning on which it can count. There will, of course, be room for such additional expenditure as the Government sees fit to make on the basis of cases put to it and given the overall economic situation at the time. This has advantages for the Government because it means that it can plan on a line more in keeping with its own annual budgetary problems. It has certain benefits for the community. I suspect that some educationists will complain about it, although I know that many will not. I suspect that some will take the point of view that a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush and realise that, while under the previous fixed triennial system they knew how much money they would have over a 3-year period, now they will know a minimum amount over a 3-year period, with room for addition at the edges. That announcement will be made only 6 to 12 months before the year in question, Some will not like that. 
There were many disadvantages educationally and for the community under the old system. One of them was that when promised money 3 years in advance the universities and the colleges- as well as the schools to a lesser extent, because they are a newer experience- did not move as quickly as they could have in some cases. The result was that if their planning got a bit behind they had nothing to lose. If it was not possible to put up a building in the first year of a triennium they knew they could do it in the second year because the Government was committed to that expenditure for them. If the reasons were ones under their control- in some cases they were; it was just because of sloppy planning on their part that they were not prepared to proceed when they should have been- they knew they would get away with it. This way the Government has a far better chance of knowing what capital expenditure will be undertaken in the next financial year with money allotted to education. 
The new system will give the benefit of educational flexibility. In this day and age the need for new courses or the need for existing courses can change rapidly. In 12 months a course which may appear to be well established in a university can suddenly go into a very sharp decline, and the prospects for the future of that course can be brought into question. On fixed triennial funding nothing can be done about that. The courses continue. They continue as part of educational- and, in some cases, personal empires- because it is good for certain individuals that the courses continue. The courses do not continue for any particular good educational reason. Under those circumstances there are benefits to the community in the rolling triennium as outlined by the Minister. It will mean that we can move continually 3 years ahead on basic planning, instead of from time to time looking 3 years ahead. 
There are many issues in the Bills and in the statements which will provide endless fascination to the Parliament and to the public. In the interests of proceedings with the debate I must now cut short my contribution. I welcome many areas of the Government's initiatives, not just the ones to which I have confined myself. I see in the Bills and in the statements a chance for this country to grow again and to re-establish itself as possibly the most desirable country in the world in terms of prospects for and real wealth of its citizens. 
Is the Minister repressing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware that many people are claiming that they are having difficulty in achieving telephone contact with Lebanon? Since there are many Lebanese people in Australia who are urgently seeking news from their country of origin, does the Minister have any information on this matter? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs whether she has seen a letter to the editor in today's edition ofthe  Australian  from a  Mr J.  H. Abel of Sydney claiming that an application from his wife for a passport, together with particular documents, was taken to the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs in Sydney and that the Department refused to receive the documents by hand and said that they must be posted? Is it true that this is the policy of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and, if so, why? 
I hardly know what to say in reply to that extraordinary speech from  Senator Bishop.  Surely one could only call it a South Australian Labor Party stream of invective or stream of consciousness. I know Australians fairly well but I have not had much contact with the Australian Labor Party in South Australia. I have never heard anything like that speech so I can only assume that it is something which is peculiar to the Labor Party of South Australia.  Senator Bishop's  speech was impressive for one thing, its piety. That piety was impressive again for only one thing, its magnitude. 

 Senator Bishop, during the course of his speech, coined an interesting phrase. I remind the Senate of it. He said: 'And the Labor Party did that'. I will be pleased to remind  Senator Bishop  this evening of some of the other things the Labor Party did. 
In the early portion and for a great part of his speech he took it upon himself to attack the Liberal Party senators from South Australia on the subject of shipbuilding. I remind  Senator Bishop-  I am sure it is only a reminder- and I acquaint some of the back bench senators on his side of some of the facts of Labor Government decisions which were made while he was a member of that government and a Cabinet Minister in that Government. It is a fact that the Labor Party in government, under the Whitlam Ministry, ordered 7 ships overseas. 
They were not rowing boats. 
Indeed, the truth does hurt the honourable senators opposite. That is really why they do not want to hear it. I am obliged to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  for providing in a Press release the names of those ships, which are: the  Australian Pioneer,  the  Australian Purpose,  the  Australian Prospector,  the  Australian Progress,  the  Australian Emblem,  the  Australian Venture,  and a conversion of the  Tambo River.  All those names ring well. They ring of the sorts of things the Australian Labor Party likes to say it stands for in this country. 'Rowing boats', said  Senator Gietzelt!  It ought to be pointed out to  Senator Gietzelt  that the 4 bulk carriers which were said by the Labor Party to be too big for Australian yards to construct, could have been constructed in Australia if the Labor Government had been serious about the shipbuilding industry. The Labor Government took no initiative to provide any sort of assistance to the shipbuilding industry to make it capable of building those ships. That is the fact of the Labor Government. 
From all we have heard, certainly in this debate if not before, the Labor Party is obviously more comfortable in opposition than in government. In government is was reminded that it needed to be a little bit more responsible than it had been in opposition. We need to remind it also that it needs to be a little bit more responsible now in opposition than it was previously in government. 
What sort of a strategy does the Labor Party give us? What did the Labor Party do? I shall take a subject about which play is being made on the other side, and that is unemployment. This is a simple fact which the Australian community will understand: When the Labor Party came to government in December 1972 there were 136 000 people unemployed in Australia. Much play was made of that by the Labor Party at the 1972 election. In December 1975 over 334 000 people were unemployed. 
I will come to that. I ask the honourable senator to be patient and not to rush in, in opposition, as he did in government. That figure I have given represents an increase of almost 200 per cent in 3 years. But what are the facts now? The July 1976 figures show that 270 286 people were unemployed. The July 1975 figures showed 251 622 people unemployed. What those figures did not show was 3 1 969 people on the Regional Employment and 
Development scheme. To be on the RED scheme they had to be unemployed. That is the RED scheme which the Labor Government cancelled last year. 
The honourable senator asks why we have not restored it. That is music to my ears. The Labor Party has been out of government for about 8 months. Honourable senators on the other side are complaining about the changes we have made to what they did. Now they are complaining because we have not changed their changes. They are consistent. They complain consistently. The total number of people unemployed in July 1975 in Australia under a Labor Government was 283 591. They were registered as unemployed. Honourable senators opposite can trot out their arguments about people who do not register but they are the facts. There are 270 286 registered unemployed now. Honourable senators cannot say that there is a factor operating in relation to registrations now which was not operating 12 months ago. That is what the Labor Party did for Australia.  Senator Bishop  might well say: 'And the Labor Party did that'. 
I would like to point out some facts and statements which have been made in relation to an important industry in Australia, namely, the metal trades industry. I refer to some facts in relation to that industry because it is the largest secondary industry in Australia. At a function some weeks ago the then federal  president, Mr A.  Edwards, who is also the Queensland  President,  pointed out what had happened in that industry. Honourable senators will remember that  Senator Bishop  spent a lot of time talking about the skills which Australia does not want to lose. I ask honourable senators to remember that because it is interesting to note what happened under a Labor Government to an industry which requires a high degree of skill. It is interesting to see what their effect was. 
I shall come to that too. Unemployment in the metal trades industry is at its highest level since the Depression. Since 1970 overtime has been cut by an average of 50 per cent. That is what a Labor Government does for the worker! Labour costs have not only priced the Australian metals industry out of world markets but also it is pricing the industry out of the Australian market. So much for exporting skills. Since 1973 the cost of employing a male process worker has increased by 40 per cent in Australia compared with 1 5 per cent in the United States of America. Whereas in 1973 the Australian metals industry had a labour cost advantage of 15 per cent, it now suffers a labour cost disadvantage of 22 per cent. Profits are down 36 per cent from 1973 levels. It is interesting to look at that in the context of  Senator Bishop's  comments about what the Labor Party did for Australia and of his reply when  Senator Archer,  my colleague from Tasmania, made a comment about textiles.  Senator Bishop,  without taking his feet off the floor, did a double somersault. 
In October 1 974 at the Metal Trades Industry Association annual convention  Senator Bishop's  colleague, the then Minister for Manufacturing Industry,  Mr Enderby,  when speaking about the 25 per cent tariff cuts and the activities of the Industries Assistance Commission and of the Government stated: 
We have exposed you to competition and you don't like it- you don't like it. 

 Mr Enderby may now realise that the people he really exposed to competition were the Australian workers and they do not like it. This is the problem of the Labor Party, in government or out of government: It cannot look past its blind prejudices. It likes to label this Budget a business budget but it overlooks the fact that when it was in Government and was business bashing, the people who suffered on the greatest scale were the Australian workers, skilled and unskilled. The Labor Government chose to overlook completely the effect wages would have on our capacity to produce, much less export. Now members of the Labor Party are glibly saying that it is our fault. We accept that we have a responsibility. The Labor Party will accept no responsibility and they did not accept any when in government. Even now the decline in jobs under our Government has been less than under the previous Labor Government, even after combining the private and public sector of the economy. 
The Leader of the Opposition in the other place  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  had much to say about a 'mixed economy' and the role of the public sector of the economy when he made a speech last night. What are the facts? The figures for May for the financial year 1974-75, squarely in the middle of a Labor Government's administration, indicate that jobs in the public sector of the economy increased by 91 000 whilst jobs in the private sector of the economy decreased by 146 000, resulting in a net loss in that period of 57 000 jobs. So work as they might at expanding the public sector and at extending this much vaunted mixed economy theory, the Labor Party 
Government was completely unsuccessful in the enterprise of stopping increased unemployment. The figures for the next 12 months to May of the financial year 1975-76 indicate that jobs in the public sector declined under the LiberalNational Country Party Government by 8000; but in the private sector the decline was 18 000 compared with 146 000 at the same period 12 months earlier under a Labor Government. 
-Senator Mulvihill says that is not helping school leavers'. But the crocodile tears that have been wept on the other side of the chamber because of the legacy that Labor has left this country just impress me just so much. I have been here long enough to have seen the Labor Party in Government. It brought in some Budgets which contained some very brave words and before those Budgets could ever have taken effect, for good or for ill, its back bench was in a panic and its Caucus was over-ruling its ministry. The Regional Employment and Development scheme is a good example of this. 

 - Senator Coleman asks how I know anything about it. I can draw some conclusions. Some allegations were made in newspapers. Goodness me, the newspapers did not always write nice things about the Labor Party when in Government. When the subject of those allegations subsequently became government policy I had to accept an almost irresistable fact and that was that the allegations were true and that the Caucus, the basis of the Labor Party, had played such a role. 
In the context of jobs provided by government it is interesting to note the following statement which appears in the  Hansard  record of the speech made by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  on 17 August: 
At the end of 197S, the private sector was employing no more people than it had been 3 years earlier, although over that period the labour force had expanded by 370 000. 
That is an impressive record. That shows that there was no significant improvement in the private sector and, in fact, that, combined with other facts, leads us to believe that things were going backwards. 
The Labor Party is probably relieved it is no longer in government and that it can claim now that no restraint is any longer reasonable. When in government the Labor Party at least did have to count up and formulate its policies. It did have to replace invective with fact on occasions- the fact of government policies. But now it has a free hand. Now it pours its scorn on a Budget which is attempting to bring some sanity into the Australian economy. Yet it provides no credible alternative. I have heard no commentator today make the comment that what the leader of the Labor Party said last night was any sort of an alternative for the Australian people- even for those who are bound and determined to vote Labor in spite of the facts. Members of the Labor Party have this paranoia about business and now that they are in Opposition they can give full rein to that paranoia. It is no longer incumbent on them to be reasonable in any area. It is no longer incumbent upon them to make the occasional soothing noise that their most recent Treasurer made at this time last year. 
The facts are that the private sector of the economy is crucial to the health of our economy. That is an economist's phrase. It means in real person's terms that the private sector of the economy is crucial to people's getting jobs. It is crucial to the maintenance and improvement of the Australian people's standard of living. Three years of Labor Government put us back 20 years in those terms- 20 years of real growth and difficult times which were overcome. It seems as though we are back where we started. The dog chased its tail. 
In 1975, in the small business sector of the economy alone, the sector which employs 40 per cent of those Australians in employment in Australia, it is estimated that 3000 small businesses had to close. Some honourable senators might like to take that figure, by itself, on board. I suggest that when they take it on board, along with the trend in unemployment over that period, they will see what those figures really mean. We cannot account for each one of those businesses. We cannot account for why they closed down. But the facts are that 3000 small businesses closed down and unemployment increased. 
I am sorry that the honourable senator was not here earlier. I have gone through the figures for 12 months ago and compared them with the present figures. 
I am sorry, I did not go back to 1971. But I did give the figures for 1972 and the figures under a Labor Government are still the worst. The unemployment that a Labor Government created was the worst since the 
Depression. Against that we have pursued a policy which, contrary to the statement by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt)  in moving his amendment today, attempts to give the right sort of impetus. A number of policies have been announced already and a number have been embarked upon already which are part of the Government's strategy. It is important that people know that they are part of the Government's strategy. 
I particularly welcome the Government's move in the matter of valuation of trading stock. I was a member of this Senate 2 years ago when a South Australian senator asked the then AttorneyGeneral a question in relation to the effect that inflation was having on the valuation of stock with its flow-on effect on taxation. He mentioned that that flow-on effect would mean that companies which were operating efficiently nevertheless would go broke because the right valuation of stock could not be given with the high inflation rate that we had under the Labor Government. The Treasurer has now announced that there will be a move towards a proper valuation of stock for taxation purposes. It is a difficult thing to do but we are doing it, whereas the gentleman who was asked the question 2 years ago to which I have referred promised to look at the matter but produced nothing. 
He is not in this place and I daresay he is glad of that. I welcome the announcement by the Treasurer on the Government's decision to allow private companies to retain 60 per cent of their profits. I have received many representations from small businesses- individuals who are entrepreneurs- in relation to retention of profit. When the Labor Party was in office it required that 50 per cent of profits, at the most, could be retained. Of course, this is terribly important to small businesses- to the small private companies. If they are to build up their capital and to build a secure base which will enable them to expand their business and thereby their employment capacity, they must be able to plough profits back into the businesses. They had no alternative to distributing profit. If a private company owned and run by an entrepreneur paid the profits to himself, he, of course, paid income tax at a rate which was likely to be in excess of the company taxation rate. So the Government got the maximum taxation income from the small business. I welcome the opportunity for that sector of the community in particular to have the capacity to build up its capital investment, to strengthen its base and to strengthen our economy, thereby giving more 
Australians jobs. The investment allowance, of course, was another pan of the strategy. It has been introduced already and I know it has been welcomed. One would hope that its flow-on effect will achieve the total objective of reducing unemployment. 
Might I say in passing that I welcome the Government 's policy in relation to income equalisation deposits. Primary industry is an important sector of private enterprise in Australia, and under a Labor Government it felt that it had no future. With the income equalisation deposits, primary industry has the opportunity to even out the humps and the hollows. It has the opportunity to spread the burden of taxation when it affects them unequally, as it does at present because of such vagaries as drought and variable overseas markets. 
The growth of the business sector and with it the growth of jobs is very closely tied to the level of investment in Australia. I pose the question that  Senator Bishop  pretended to answer: What did the Labor Party do? New investment in plant and equipment fell in two of the three years of Labor Government and private investment suffered its most serious decline since World War II. It is estimated that in 1974-75 company investment declined by 7 per cent. When that is measured against the fact that in the same period wages, salaries and relevant supplements increased by 28 per cent, with all the encouragement that a Labor Government could give to that increase, it is no wonder that there was serious decline in that sector of our community and that hundreds of thousands of people were thrown out of jobs. The figures for this year give us some cause for hope. Seasonally adjusted figures for the June quarter show that total business fixed capital expenditure has increased by 7 per cent and the increase in new investment in plant and equipment from the March quarter to the June quarter was 12 per cent, or 8 per cent in real terms. Perhaps they are fairly dry figures, and to those people who are not economists they sound as if they are beyond their ken. Nevertheless I think Australians learned a very hard lesson under a Labor Government. They learned that although they might not know how to deduce the figures, the figures mean something to them. They mean a job; they mean security; or they mean betrayal by a Party which those people believed was for the worker. At huge cost to the country and at great cost to individuals they found that that belief was not justified. 
The Treasurer indicated in his Budget Speech that there is every reason to believe that an improvement is beginning to show up in the investment area, and its resultant effect which we all desire, is on the way. The Government is not just blaming what happens beyond the seas; it is doing something to meet the problem. I welcome the policies, some of which I have already mentioned, which will help in this area. They include the valuation of trading stocks, the provision for the retention of profit by private companies and a couple of other areas which ought to be of concern to  Senator Georges,  who has been trying continually to interject. Under a Labor Government and particularly under the relevant Minister,  Mr Connor,  there was a great deal of uncertainty in the mining industry, an industry which I am sure  Senator Georges  will agree is important to Queensland. I hope that the decisions which have been made to stimulate investment in mining and to stimulate the prospects of those who would invest in mining will have a real effect. Of course,  Mr Connor  was a member of the Party which talked about buying back the farm, but he gave us virtually nothing worth buying or at least the prospect of very little to buy. 
I welcome the decisions announced by the Government in relation to petroleum exploration expenditure being deductible against income from any source, together with all the associated policies announced in that area. They will give incentive to the Australian to invest in his own country. Under the previous Government we had a Minister who gave no such incentive but gave Australian and overseas interests alike every reason to shrink from putting their money into that risk area. I welcome the Government's decision to phase out the coal export duty. I made a speech on that subject at this time last year when the Labor Government introduced the duty and I do not want to spend a lot more time on it now. My views on that subject are on record and Labor senators can refer to them if they wish. The fact is that investment in the coal industry in Queensland has brought enormous benefit and thousands of jobs to Queenslanders. It has brought benefit to our building industry and it has given us an infrastructure within our State which benefits all the State. The investment is helping to build model cities and the industry has been a model employer. I suggest that Queenslanders should welcome that move. 
In the short time left to me I wish to refer to consumers, a subject mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition. I remind the consumers of Australia what happened to their consuming power under a Labor Government. Those who were in jobs found that the tax take of the Federal Government doubled in the period that Labor was in office. When inflation was rampant the Labor Government could only wring its hands and fiddle around with the scales. However it still expected to get a lot more money, even after fiddling with the scales, than it had the previous year. I remind the Australian consumer that on more than one occasion the Labor Government savagely increased indirect taxes. I remind the Australian consumer of what the Labor Government did to the cost of petrol, beer and cigarettes, and in so doing proving that it was not a working man's government at all. The Labor Government benefitted the public servant and in many ways benefitted the politician, but for the private individual there was very little benefit indeed. I indicated earlier that there was a large increase in public sector jobs. I omitted to point out that the division which had the greatest increase was the Second Division, a high level division containing people who are highly skilled in terms of qualifications. I remind  Senator Mulvihill  that that increase in the public sector was not for the school leavers; it was not for the little person. It was for the high income earners and it just broadened their horizons a little. 
I remind the Australian consumer that indexation is probably the most important thing that has happened to taxation in modern times, perhaps even in the history of Australia. This Government promised to introduce tax indexation so that no government could pursue a policy of inflation and rake in more money without the responsibility of facing the fact that it was effectively increasing taxation rates. I remind the Australian consumer that there has been no increase in indirect taxes in this Budget. Previously we have had debates in this place on the family allowance, and that is important to the Australian female consumer. It is also very important to low income families and it has increased the confidence of those Australian consumers. The rallying in business investment shows an increase in confidence, and there will be increased incentives when jobs increase. 
I suggest that the Party of the honourable senator who interjects does nothing to increase the confidence of the community. It provides no rational alternative. In contrast to the statements of the Opposition, the Government has every reason to believe that both average and aggregate real disposable household incomes will rise this year. That takes into account the changes projected in the Budget. In net terms, including all the charges associated with Medibank, real household disposable incomes are expected to rise, and they will rise in important areas. They will rise in the area of the disadvantaged family which, as I said earlier, will now receive the family allowance and will not be taxed out of existence. The pensioner and the person living on the benefit of his own thrift and industry have some reason to hope that their incomes will not be eroded. Finally, this Government has indexed pensions, something which a Labor Government would never have the political strength to do. We are ensuring that the weak people- the people on whom Opposition senators are so keen- will be protected in some way. I find the laughter of Opposition senators not terribly impressive. In fact, I find it just a little less impressive that the words I have heard from them so far in the debate. We were told that the Opposition was coming back in strength. However, it seems to have confused a strong voice and loudness with a strong case. I would like Opposition senators to replace some of that invective with some facts which have some meaning to the Australian community. 
I present the following petition from 97 citizens of Australia- 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that: 
Concern at the record number of building workers registered for unemployment benefits in New South Wales; aware of the Australian Bureau of Statistics Report for New South Wales revealing a drastic fall off in both commencements and approvals for future commencements, of building projects this year as compared to previous years; alarm at the fact that 1368 building apprentices were registered for unemployment benefit payments during the  month of July in  New  South  Wales; conscious of the fact that most of the unemployed apprentices will never be able to complete their training (thus creating a continuing problem for the industry, and indeed the community as a whole) unless immediate urgent measures are provided for in the Federal Government's Budget; we the undersigned citizens of New South Wales in the Commonwealth of Australia by this our humble petition respectfully request that Members of the Senate insist that the 1976-77 Budget provides specific measures to lift building activity particularly welfare housing, schools, hospitals and other public buildings above the present dangerously low level; we request that the Budget be returned to the House of Representatives with instructions from the Senate to include such measures. 
Petition received. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications seen a report in yesterday's  Daily Mirror  that the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission,  Sir Henry  Bland, has offered the television series  Alvin Purple  for sale to commercial television networks for $30,000 to $50,000 an episode? Would the Minister agree that the massive free publicity this series has received assures the ABC of an enthusiastic and lucrative market for the series? Can the Minister advise the Senate whether this is a strategy by the ABC to overcome its normal budgetary limitations or whether, in view of the poor reviews the  Alvin Purple  series has received, it is a scheme by the ABC to cause a long term downturn in commercial network ratings as compared with the ratings of the ABC? In either case, would the Minister be prepared to forward, on behalf of interested and discerning Australian television viewers, to  Sir Henry  Bland a list of other ABC programs to which he may care to give the same treatment? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications whether he remembers my asking him a question in the Senate earlier this year in relation to an article which appeared in the  Daily Mirror  in May and which was headed; 
PMG Men Accused of Swindle. 
The article contained allegations by a former Australian Telecommunications Commission linesman who, incidentally, was a Justice of the Peace, that telephone subscribers were footing the bill for Australia-wide calls recorded on subscribers ' meters but made by Commission technicians with tapping devices. Does the Minister recall that I asked him at that time whether it was true that a linesman who did not report that he had made a call on a subscriber's line could be dismissed, and if so, what attempts were made to detect this dishonesty and how many Commission employees were dismissed for this reason? Does the Minister recall advising me last week in reply to that question that in appropriate circumstances action can be taken to dismiss an officer found guilty of improperly using a subscriber's line but that there was no evidence of any offences of this nature having been committed? In view of the conflict between the information provided in the Minister's answer last week and the allegations made in the article by, I remind the Minister, a justice of the peace last May, I ask: What checks are or can be made on the improper use of private subscribers' telephone lines and how can these subscribers be protected against a betrayal of a position of trust by such people? Has any attempt been made by the Commission to investigate the claims in that article and/or interview the individual who made them? If not, why not? 
What an extraordinary exercise the Opposition in this place has launched the Senate into this afternoon. Under the indulgence of the Standing Orders of the Senate the Opposition claimed that it wanted to discuss a matter of urgency. Under the indulgence of the Senate  Senator Button,  who has lost interest in the debate, in fact launched something that could be construed as nothing but a personal attack on the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I wondered at times during the speech we just heard from  Senator Douglas  McClelland whether we were not in fact debating a condolence motion for dear departed former commissioners of the ABC, because there was very little substance in either of the 2 speeches made by Opposition senators and there is no substance in the case that they put forward. 
During the course of his speech  Senator Button  saw fit to say that  Alvin Purple  is the cultural debate of 1976 in the Senate. For that, the Labor Party can take full credit. It was meant to be some sort of a reflection on the current Government but, in fact, it is the Labor Party which has seen some political mileage in launching this fatuous debate today. I suggest that this debate is the non-event of the Senate so far this year. One could reflect for a moment and think: What if  Sir Henry  Bland gets the support of the Commission at the Commission meeting? What is then made of the whole case we have heard so far today?'. Of course, we do not know whether  Sir Henry  Bland will get the support of the Commission. That is the whole point of the exercise, is it not? This disgraceful debate has been launched because tomorrow  Sir Henry  Bland will be seeking the support of the Commission. 

 Senator Button, as I said earlier, launched nothing more than a personal attack on the  Chairman  of the Commission,  Sir Henry  Bland. He made a statement that the criticisms that have been made of him were 'in the context of sharing his view'- that is,  Senator Button  sharing  Sir Henry  Bland's view- that he was 'not cut out for the job'. That is unworthy of a debate in this place. I previously would have believed it to be totally unworthy of  Senator Button.  As his authorities on this matter he quoted from the ramblings of Whitlam, the writing of Voltaire and his own personal survey of 25 newspaper cartoons. On that basis, we have spent hours of the Senate 's valuable time debating this matter. 

 Senator Button commented, in passing, that there was need for an objective public debate on the ABC, and indeed there is. I would have no objection to him launching an objective debate on the ABC in the Senate. I do not say that because I want to criticise the ABC but I think it is important that statutory corporations operating with public financing be subjected to public debate, if not public criticism. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson),  according to  Senator Button,  said on television that there is a need for objectivity on the ABC. When  Senator Button  stands up here and says: There is a need for objective public debate on the ABC, that is laudable. Yet, when the Minister says in a television interview that there is need for objectivity on the ABC, that is damnable. 
One statement is made by a Labor Parliamentarian and the other by a Liberal Parliamentarian. It is part of what is merely a political case put to us today- a disgraceful case at that. It is all right if the Opposition says that there is need for an objective public debate on the ABC. It is all right for the Labor Party to say that in Government or in Opposition but it is not all right for members of the Liberal Party or the National Country Party to say it. It is all right for the Opposition but if we do it, it is dealt with as a matter of urgency. 
It is interesting to note how much time  Senator Button  then sought to spend developing his own point of view on what should be the position of the ABC, the  Chairman  of the Commission and management. It is interesting to note in that context what the Prime Minister said yesterday in the House of Representatives in answering a question relating to alleged censorship in the ABC. He was asked whether he would give an undertaking to intervene with the  Chairman  on another matter. The Prime Minister said: 
The Australian Broadcasting Commission makes its own decisions about programming and matters of that kind. If the honourable gentleman has some complaint, I suggest that he contact the  Chairman  of the ABC or the ABC itself. The Government will not interfere in the programming of the ABC. 
That is the real complaint of honourable senators opposite. Their complaint is that the Government will not interfere or intervene in the domestic matters of the ABC. The responsibilities of the Commission are adequately and clearly outlined in the Act and we abide by them. In contrast to the allegation contained in this motion that somehow or other we are endangering the intelligence, integrity and high repute of the Australian national broadcasting service. Section 59 of the Act states:   . . THE Commission shall provide . . . adequate and comprehensive programs and shall take in the interests of the community all such measures as, in the opinion of the Commission, are conducive to the full development of suitable broadcasting and television programs. 
That is contained in the Act. The Act remained virtually intact when the previous Government was in office. The Labor Government made no moves to amend the Act in the way that  Senator Douglas  McClelland might have liked the casual listener to this debate today to believe it did. The two sets of amendments achieved by the Labor Government when in office essentially were in one case related to the method of fixing remuneration allowances of the members of the Commission and in the second to a refund of licence fees which had been collected just before the fees ceased to exist. If the Labor Party had some great scheme about defining the responsibilities of the Commission and management, it had adequate opportunity to put them forward when in government. Sections of the Act give the Commission power to delegate its responsibilities to management. The way in which that is done is defined but the scope of that delegation is not limited. The Commission can do that. It was therefore open to the Labor Party when in government to move whatever amendment it saw necessary. It was quite open to the Labor Party when in government to listen to  Senator Button's  brilliant scheme. 
The essential fallacy of this whole debate is in the wording of the motion. We are told it is a matter of urgency. The motion claims:  failure of the Government to ensure the independence, integrity and high repute of Australia's national broadcasting service. 
What does the Opposition want? Today it has taken advantage of the opportunity to attack the  Chairman  of the ABC and to talk a little about its own policies when in government. Members of the Opposition have not really spoken to the matter of urgency. What does the Opposition want? In what way are we failing? In what direction should we move? Are we meant to move to direct the Commission? Are we meant to take it that we ought to amend the legislation to achieve the sorts of things about which honourable senators opposite have been talking? Either way, if we were to take the advice of the Opposition- if that was what it had intended to give but which it has not given so far- it would seem to be totally contrary to the matter that is before us. We are condemned by the Opposition. It is claimed that we are failing to ensure the independence, integrity and high repute of the national broadcasting service. The solution to that, apparently, is government direction, government action and government legislation. In those terms, the whole matter is totally fatuous. If we were to accept the suggestion of the Labor Party indeed we could be open to some sort of criticism. 
It is interesting to note that  Senator Button  at the beginning of his speech said that the words of the matter of urgency were carefully chosen and that the standards indicated therein are now under threat. Indeed, they may be. We could welcome an objective debate on the ABC or any other statutory authority in this Senate. We could welcome the opportunity to debate all matters of great import that rise under that general heading. But how can we welcome an opportunity to attack the  Chairman  of the ABC a day before a meeting of the Commissioners of the ABC? As I said earlier, the Opposition's timing is more than interesting. 

 Senator Button, of course, said that some questions have arisen in recent months. He attempted to detail them. He referred to Budget cuts and changes, comments of the  Chairman  of the ABC, comments of the Minister to which I referred earlier, the cartoons to which I referred earlier and to the public disagreement amongst Commissioners. They are the questions which cause concern. They are the questions which apparently have arisen. It is a great pity that the Opposition has chosen not to debate the issue. It is also a great pity that the Opposition did not choose to put a motion dealing with a matter of urgency to us in those terms. Of course, there is the chance that the Government might be tempted to stray away on some side issue or that it might be tempted to commit the same sin as the Opposition committed of making statements here which might affect the independent considerations of the Commission at its meeting tomorrow. There is every chance that that could happen. But I remind the Opposition that the motion is before us in writing and there it stands. 
It is interesting to compare the sorts of suggestions that  Senator Button  makes for redrawing the Australian Broadcasting Commission. He quotes  Sir Henry  Bland as saying that the role of commissioners is to support management. This is certainly part of the role of commissioners. I suggest it is the role of the commissioners also to have a discretionary power because that is denned not just in a speech by  Senator Button  but in the Broadcasting and Television Act, which has remained intact.  Senator Button  went on to talk about the role of management to prepare and present programs within guidelines laid down by the Commission. Apparently he would like to deny the Commission the right to lay down those guidelines. 

 Senator Button sees it as a matter of great moment that there is some public disagreement among commissioners. The Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  in replying in this debate on behalf of the Government, went into great detail in outlining the history and the vagaries of the ABC and the controversies it got itself into over the years. Is any honourable senator suggesting that there has never been some sort of disagreement amongst commissioners or that there has never been any public disagreement amongst commissioners? Of course there has been. The sort of people who are necessarily chosen for their abilities to serve on the Commission will naturally differ in their attitudes. 
The censorship of what I understand is a rather low grade program has been blown out of all proportion and then used by the Opposition to meet a short term political objective.  Senator Button  said that all this revived the old censorship debates of the 1 950s. That was a great piece of nostalgia indeed, as was his reference to  At Last the 1948 Show.  There will always be controversy about censorship and, as  Senator Carrick  pointed out, not just censorship by the ABC in all the many forms that that can take, but censorship by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board of the commercial broadcasters and not of the ABC. It is right that there should be controversy. We ought to be able to debate the role of censorship in our society. We ought to be able to debate whether standards are changing. But the hysterical approach of personal attack on a man who cannot answer for himself in here is no sort of debate. 
He cannot answer for himself in here. If I were in  Sir Henry's  position I expect that I should not engage in any sort of public debate with members of the Senate via the media before tomorrow's meeting.  Sir Henry  does not have the unique opportunity that honourable senators have to stand up here this afternoon and speak uncensored to the people and to say whatever we please. That is a great privilege and one that ought not to be abused. I suggest that that privilege has been abused in the treatment of this motion this afternoon. I suggest that it has been abused in the introduction of this matter of public importance. We acceded to the debate of this urgency motion. We ask only that the Opposition should prove its case. 
I address my question to the Minister for Education. Has he seen reports of a statement by the  President  of the Australian Teachers Federation that by the end of this year a quarter of a million children will be taught in one-room portable classrooms and that no new libraries, art classrooms or general purpose classrooms will be built over the next financial year? Has the Minister noticed that the reason for this claim is that schools are $50m short in their building programs, according to the  President  of the Australian Teachers Federation? Are those claims true? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Education. The Minister will recall that on 20 May he made a statement to the Senate to the effect that the Government had decided to replace the existing cost supplementation arrangements by less automatic provisions for unavoidable increases in costs in the funding of education. I ask: When will the Minister be able to inform the Senate of the method of cost supplementation that the Government intends to use in the future? 
Has the Minister for Education seen reports in today's  Sydney Morning Herald  headed 'Parents Say their Role in Schools is Thwarted '? Is the Minister aware that the  President  of the Australian Council of State School Organisations has claimed that the present Government has changed the policy of the previous Government and is now withholding certain education reports from public view. Is the Press report correct? 
I have much pleasure in speaking on this Bill to establish an Advisory Council on Intergovernment Relations. I congratulate the Government on the steps it is taking towards making its federalism policy viable. I congratulate the Opposition for not opposing the Bill which comes before us tonight. I do not intend to speak for very long but there are some rather interesting aspects to this Bill that I wish to raise. I wish to refer particularly to the fact that 2 speakers already have seen fit to mention events which are occurring in the State which I represent. 
However, I wish first of all to say a few words about the federalism policy and the aims of the Advisory Council. In his second reading speech the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs  (Senator Carrick)  said that the 3 main designs of the federalism policy were to strengthen the federal system of government under which we live in Australia, to give the States and local government an assured source of revenue to match revenue to responsibilities, and to make possible a more appropriate allocation of functions amongst governments. I think all honourable senators would applaud that aim because that is what democracy is all about. A very simple principle of administration operateswhether it be Public Service administration, administration of a business or administration of a country- authority and responsibility cannot be divided. The duties which are given to our various forms of government in Australia under the Constitution are their responsibility. The means by which they achieve them which, in the main part, is the revenue to which they have access is the authority by which they can carry out that responsibility. 
The Federal Government, in its federalism policy, is attempting to make the responsibilities of the Constitution match the means of the different levels of government to meet those responsibilities. That is terribly important. 
We should all hope that this policy will work because the whole basis of the system is that people should be able to direct their own destinies. By the division of the responsibilities between Federal Government, State government and local government areas the aim, of course, is that people ought to be able to indicate what they want done with their own funds, for their own benefit and ultimately for the benefit of their community, their State and their nation. The Advisory Council is an important part of that. It aims to bring together representatives of the Commonwealth, State and local governments and also private citizens to review and consider matters relating to the improvement of co-operation between the different spheres of government. It would be silly to waste time this evening on the difficulties and differences which have arisen in our nation between the 3 levels of government in the last 76 years. However, those difficulties and differences were brought into very sharp focus over the 3 years of the Whitlam Government. The Advisory Council is one way in which we can hope that the federalism policy will seek to overcome those difficulties. I do not think anybody on the Government side believes that the federalism policy is the magic cure, that it is just a case of introducing Bills and that all will be cured in that political area. Politics in Australian Parliaments and indeed the Australian society are far more complex than would allow of that type of attitude. What is important is that we approach the problem of responsibility of governments and responsibility of citizens with a great deal of goodwill. This Advisory Council is an important function to try to harness that goodwill and to try to get those who care moving in the right direction. 
In his second reading speech the Minister told the House that following decisions of Premiers Conferences the Council would give continuing attention to the range of intergovernmental problems in the Federal, State and local government spheres. Through that we hope to have a realistic continuing dialogue on the very real and large problems which relate to the functioning of all levels of government in our country. But we must give form to that hope. We must give means to the dialogue and we must be realistic in our approach to it. The Minister also said that the Council would be an important source of advice on the most desirable allocation of governmental functions, responsibilities and revenues. I know of one great deal of hard work that the Minister put into this federalism policy both in opposition but, particularly, in Government, lt is quite clear, and the Minister would agree, that we have not necessarily decided all the fine details- he has not necessarily worked out all the fine detailsbut he has put in as much work as anybody could be expected to put in, and he has come up with what appears to be a reasonable solution. We give ourselves also the means to discern quickly and easily those areas which may require some tidying up or amendment in future. It gives us the means of gaining information from important areas of the community which will undoubtedly have a great deal to contribute on the future functioning of the federalism policy. 
I would like to spend a little time tonight talking about local government participation in particular. Much mention has been made of the attitude on this subject of the State which I represent. There are indications that other States might have some opinions on this matter. In the course of my job as a senator for Queensland I travel a great deal through that State. One section of the community with which I seek to have continuing contact is local government. I would not go into a town or a city without seeking to have contact with elected representatives of local government because they have much to say which is important to those who represent those areas in the Federal Parliament. Therefore, I have had much comment made to me on the attitude of different local government individuals and councils towards the federalism policy. 
I must say that individuals in local government and certain councils as a body have seen fit to indicate to me that they have some reservations on the policy at present. They welcome the taxsharing principle and the opportunity it will give them to plan for the future and to budget on a realistic basis. They welcome the fact that the burdens, particularly in certain areas of development and planning for the future, will not rest solely with the ratepayers of today. This is particularly important in those areas of Queensland which have been hit in one way or another over recent years by different facets of the rural recession. There are vast areas of Queensland today in which local government is in extreme financial difficulty because of the state of the beef industry. They cannot collect their rates from their ratepayers because their large ratepayers are beef producers who cannot afford to pay their rates. The local governments know their ratepayers. The councils know that if these people could pay, they would. The Councils do not want to send them broke just for the sake of some rates. The local government bodies recognise and are sympathetic towards the very real practical problems which face certain of their citizens at the moment. They therefore welcome the opportunity to have an alternative source of funding. However, in the name of honesty I must admit that they have some reservations about the administration of the policy. 
Local government, of course, is very much a creature of State government. Its fate is largely determined by legislation which is passed in the State parliament. In the past the financial destiny of local government bodies has been very much the result of the attitudes of various State governments. That did change in recent years. I did not find a great welcome for the method by which access changed under the Whitlam Government. I found that in those years local government in Queensland certainly wanted access to taxation revenue, but is was very deeply concerned about the method by which the Federal Government was going about giving that access to it. I do not speak in terms of a great concern about the activities of the Grants Commission. There was some concern about the Grants Commission when it was set up, but in its operations and its relationship with local government some of that concern abated. Nevertheless, shire councils and city councils were aware of the potential dangers of the situation in which they were. They expressed consistently a desire for some guaranteed share of income tax revenue and some guaranteed access to that revenue. It was a LiberalNational Country Party government which gave it the means to face its problems and which under the federalism policy met that desire expressed by local governments for those 3 years. 
Local government still has to look to the States now. One of the aspects of our federalism policy is that State governments must set up grants councils. I am very pleased that the Queensland Government has seen fit in the last few days to announce that it will investigate the means of setting up a grants council. I am sorry it has taken so long to make that announcement. At least some of the anxiety which  Queensland  local authorities were previously expressing may be abated now, because the silence of the Queensland Government on that subject was causing them some worry- quite unnecessarily I am sure. We must be sympathetic towards the fears of local government at this time. It has an attitude towards State and Federal governments which has come from a lengthly and at times a bitter experience. One must understand the roots of that attitude. When debating and passing into law the federalism policy, the Federal Parliament has the responsibility to make sure that local government has proper access to the funds which we now offer it, has a right to participate in the federalism scheme and what it means in terms of smoothness of administration of government and benefit to citizens. Therefore the attitude and fate of local government under this policy are crucial. This means that we must spend some time in this debate on the Advisory Council talking about local government. It is not surprising that we talk about Queensland in particular. 
The State governments should grasp the nettle of the federalism policy. The Minister in his second reading speech said: 
The body will be distinctly bipartisan and the Government wishes to ensure that its independence is preserved. 
The Federal Government will have 5 representatives out of a total of 22. That Council will not be a creature of the Federal Government. That is quite clear. The Federal Government will give members of our communtiy- who are not elected representatives of the people but who have much to contribute- an opportunity to participate in the Council. That I welcome. I am sure that would be an aspect which the Labor Party would also welcome. 
Much will depend on the States' attitude, not just towards the federalism policy but towards the Council in particular. There are some assumptions about the federalism policy. It is assumed that the citizens of Australia will take the time and trouble to find out the financing arrangements. It is assumed that the citizens of Australia will understand that the aim of the policy is to make decisions in very important areas such as education and health more easily accessible to them because more decisions will be made in the State sphere than previously. While the States accept gladly, as they clearly do, the extra finance that they will receive and the additional and automatic access to finance for planning, they must grasp the nettle. They must face the fact, honestly and publicly, that they will now have an expanded responsibility. They will now be called upon to account for the ordering of their priorities. They will now be called upon to say to their citizens, when they announce decisions and when they face elections, that they have made decision A rather than decision B because they thought decision A was preferable, for whatever reasons that they had for taking it. It will take some bravery. 
Centralism in State capitals is no more desirable than it is in the national capital. Before members of the Opposition become too excited by my statement, I must say that I believe that with the exercise of goodwill and intelligence- there are certainly men of great intelligence in our State governments- centralism will not triumph in this country. It is not good enough that we should hand back a very large amount of money to State governments with the aim of making government closer to the people and more responsible, when State governments express the sorts of attitudes towards the participation of local government members that we have seen in recent days. It is undoubtedly tempting, but if State governments have rights to finance because they have responsibilities local government also has rights to finance because it has responsibilities. 
The State governments get a unique opportunity to state publicly to the Government at Premiers conferences what its attitudes ought to be and what its financial arrangements ought to be. The Advisory Council does not fulfil the role of a Premiers Conference, but it fulfils an important role in the overall structure. I am very sorry that the Queensland Government has seen fit to adopt the attitude that it has, and I am obliged to say publicly that I do not agree with it. As I understand the position a letter went to the State governments from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on the subject of the number of local government representatives on the Advisory Council in which the Prime Minister advised the Premiers that he had considered their request, made at the Premiers Conference, that there be only 3 local government representatives on this Advisory Council. The Prime Minister informed the Premiers that for a variety of reasons, not the least important of which was that it would not be feasible to select 3 local government representatives from 6 quite distinct local government organisations, he would recommend that there be 6 representatives on this Advisory Council. One assumes that essentially there will be one representative from each State. I understand that it took the Premier of my State one month to reply to the Prime Minister's letter. That is a pity, because it was a rather crucial period, from the end of August to the end of September. I believe the Prime Minister stated a clear, fair and irrefutable case for 6 local government representatives on that Council. I am sorry that representatives of the Queensland Government have seen fit to attack that decision, and I regret very much that they have actually misrepresented the decision on certain occasions. 
I do not think State governments need have any fear of local government going directly to the Advisory Council. It is a body which will perform an important function, an advisory function. It will bring certain things to the attention of representatives of the Commonwealth and State governments. It will be an important source of advice, as the Minister said, on the most desirable allocation of governmental functions, responsibilities and revenues. It will be only a source of advice- it will not have any decision making power. It will be able to give attention on a continuing basis to essential problems in the areas of relationships between the 3 levels of government. From my contact with and my knowledge of local government I am quite sure that it will welcome the Federal Government's decision as a sensible and fair one. There are 6 separate local government organisations in the 6 States of Australia. Local government in Australia operates under State legislation. There is no reasonable basis, as I understand it, on which one could have selected 3 representatives from the 6 organisations in the 6 States. I could not think that there would be anything sinister in this present difference of opinion and it has not been suggested that there is. There seems to be really little more than an unfortunate peevishness that the Federal Government did not do as apparently members of the Premiers Conference believe they had told the Federal Government to do. I congratulate the Government on its decision. I congratulate the Government on the Bill and I commend the policy to the people of Australia. 
-The forms of the Senate allow any member of the Senate to state to it that something is a matter of urgency. Earlier today the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Keeffe)  claimed that in the opinion of the Senate something was a matter of urgency.  Mr President,  I suggest to you that at no stage has it been shown to us why we, the Senate, ought to consider this as a matter of urgency and something with which the Senate ought to be concerned. The Opposition's motion is a thinly veiled attack on the Queensland Government. Those who give ought to be able to take. 
It is has been an extraordinary debate, and I suggest that the speech by  Senator Colston  was an extraordinary speech. We have heard verbatim a repeat of the things that were told to us during the adjournment debate last night.  Mr President,  I remind you and members of the Senate of something that happened during the adjournment debate last night. As I recall it,  Senator Colston  said that he wished to raise the issue of Cedar Bay because he wished to bring to the attention of the Senate certain things which he alleged were facts in relation to that issue. It apparently was not enough that they were raised last night and alleged to be fact. Today the Senate has been obliged to involve itself for something up to 3 hours with a rehashing of that situation. 
I suggest that  Senator Melzer  contains herself. I have a few things to say and it is my turn to speak. If  Senator Melzer  would like a turn she should get the call. Many allegations have been made and some of them have been presented as statements of fact, especially those presented by  Senator Colston.  I would like to cast a light on some of the facts. Since we are talking about Queensland and since I come from Queensland, I would like to make some comment on the conduct of affairs in Queensland in relation to civil liberties, not just from the point of view of the Government but also from the point of view of the Opposition's behaviour. 
Some queries have been raised in this debate in relation to the activities of the Navy at Cedar Bay. Some questions have apparently been asked and it is claimed that they have not been answered. When I heard that the Australian Navy, or at least the Australian Government, had been involved in some capacity in the drug raid at Cedar Bay it aroused my curiosity. It was not aroused just from the point of view of the Government's involvement, because the matter of drug trafficking is a matter of concern to Commonwealth governments. So it was not surprising that Commonwealth officers were there. Their actual role was of course a matter of some curiosity in the light of the allegations which flowed from the incident. 
As I understand it, the Commonwealth officers or agencies that were involved are in no way implicated in the allegations that have been made in relation to the Queensland Police Force. I point out to  Senator Button  that there has been no suggestion of impropriety or improper conduct on behalf of Commonwealth officers in the Cedar Bay incident. So any attempt to spread a little mud over the Commonwealth Government apparently on that point has no foundation, because if there was any room for the allegation it would have been made in the course of this debate, judging from what we have listened to so far. 

 Senator Colston last night and again this evening made a glancing reference to the fact that the Police Commissioner in Queensland has instituted an inquiry into allegations made against his force.  Mr Whitrod  has made a public statement on the inquiry which I cannot give verbatim. However I can state with some confidence that when allegations of misconduct are made against the police force it is competent for the Queensland Police Force to initiate an investigation of those allegations, if they are presented in some decent form which enables an investigation, and not as a version which has been given by journalists via the columns of the newspapers. 
It is a fact that once the allegations were put into writing in the form of statements, the Queensland Police Force dispatched Chief Superintendent Becker, who is the head of the Crime Intelligence Unit in Queensland, to Cairns to investigate those allegations. Chief Superintendent Becker is a man against whom nobody could say anything, privately or publicly. The Crime Intelligence Unit is that section of the Queensland Police Force which concerns itself with allegations about the conduct of the members of the police force, whether they be allegations of over-exuberance or of corruption. Chief Superintendent Becker, in his conduct in charge of that section of the police force, has never met criticism on that score. That ought to be made clear. An investigation is underway and, as was brought to the attention of the Senate earlier in this debate, there are some difficulties from the point of view of Parliamentary debates because the matter is  sub judice. 
I feel constrained to point out that there are 2 sides to what is happening politically in Queensland. In the course of this debate, and well before it, much criticism has been made of the conduct of the coalition Government in Queensland in relation to this particular incident. It is a pathetic reflection on the Australian Labor Party that its members bring to the Senate today, under the guise of a motion of urgency and a matter which ought to concern the Senate, issues which are very clearly within the ambit and responsibility of the Queensland State Parliament. It is a sad reflection on the Labor Opposition in Queensland that it cannot gather its forces, such as they are, in the Parliament to make the case itself. 
In today's  Courier Mail  there is a story to which I ought to refer because it casts some light on the attitude of the parliamentary members of the Queensland Division of the Australian Labor Party and their competence to carry out their duties as  Her  Majesty's Opposition in that State on an issue which it is claimed is of such crucial importance that it has tied up the Federal Parliament now for 3 hours. I refer, of course, to the resignation of the State Secretary of the Australian Labor Party in Queensland,  Mr Bart  Lourigan, who is also the Federal Vice-President of the Australian Labor Party, elected to that position in the place of the late- and, in Labor Party terms, unlamented- Party Vice-President  Sir John  Egerton.  Mr Lourigan  apparently has been under some pressure within the Party in Queensland because he has tried to initiate some reform into that Party. 
-Thank you,  Mr President.  I thought I had made it clear that we were debating whether this was a matter or urgency to the Senate. I am suggesting that it is a subject which, certainly in the terms in which it has been presented in argument to us today, is not the concern of the Senate. I am saying that the Opposition in the Queensland Parliament- which is, of course, the Australian Labor Party- has abdicated its responsibilities in that State. I was in the process of making the point that apparently at the moment the Australian Labor Party in Queensland is totally consumed by its organisational difficulties. I referred to an article in the  Courier Mail  and I would like to quote the last 2 sentences because they are illuminating in terms of the present debate. It says: 
At the basis of the Lourigan dispute was a general feeling in the party that the State ALP needed a shake-up following recent dismal election performances. There were suggestions last night- 
Let me finish the quote. If  Senator Colston  is able to contain himself he may then understand what I am talking about. 
Thank you,  Mr President.  I would like to finish the quote. It continues: 
There were suggestions last night that he might be offered ALP endorsement for a State seat at the next election. 
That is a fair indication of the Labor Party's contempt for the parliamentary system, particularly in Queensland. It is an act of political bankruptcy, I suggest, for the Queensland Central Executive of the Australian Labor Party to express lack of confidence in one of its organisational members and to suggest that the fit place for him is the State Parliament where this debate ought to be conducted. It is wrong indeed, and of no comfort at all for the people of Queensland who might like a reasonable alternative to the present State Government, that apparently they will be presented with a man in whom the people of Queensland surely could feel only limited confidence since his own organisation clearly has no confidence in him at all in the capacity in which he has recently held office. There are a few members in those representatives of the ALP in the State Parliament who are capable but it is clear that they are completely demoralised. Those who have ability and who could be carrying out this task instead of wasting the time of the Senate tonight, are completely demoralised by the activities of their own Party in that State. 
Because some of my time has been wasted on points of order I would like to take a little of the time that is left to refer to only one particular point. Under our Constitution there are certain responsibilities for Commonwealth and State governments. The areas of civil liberties legislation are areas in which one has to hasten slowly. There are civil liberties areas which clearly are the total responsibility of State governments. There are many areas in which this Government has announced that it is moving, in discussions with State governments, to enact complementary legislation so that civil liberties in Australia can be protected. It is necessary that that progress be slow because of the procedures that must be taken. This debate is delaying progress on legislation on civil liberties issues which are presently before the Senate. I refer, of course, to the Ombudsman Bill. 

 Senator Button did some rather grand scale back-patting in a speech earlier today on the subject of progress of the Australian Labor Party in government on the issue of civil liberties. I remind  Senator Button  that while his Government introduced the Ombudsman Bill, which concerns an issue of civil liberties, the Bill was not allowed to be debated.  Senator Missen  will support me that on one day he and I particularly wanted to debate this piece of legislation and we actually thought that we would get the call. On that day the Bill was No. 4 on the notice paper, but time expired before the Bill came on for debate. The next day it was back down to No. 14, and so we did not debate that piece of legislation in the life of the previous Parliament. It is again on the notice paper and it is a matter of some concern to Government supporters that we will be spending so much of the Senate's time in general debate that the things that ought to be said properly in this place on legislation such as that- on the direct area of civil liberties responsibility of the Commonwealth Government- run the risk of not being debated properly because so much of our time is wasted doing the job of the Queensland division of the Australian Labor Party. I suggest that if the Opposition were sincere in its concern about civil liberties it might do something to hasten the processes in this place to enable us to debate those issues which are our concern. I recommend to the Senate and to fairminded Australians that they reject the spurious grounds on which this co-called motion of urgency has been brought to the Senate today. 
I bring up the report from Estimates Committee C together with the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings and additional information received by the Committee after 7 October 1976. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to make a brief statement in relation to the report. 
I present additional written information supplied by the Department of Transport following the hearing by Estimates Committee C on 7 October 1 976. 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that one of the Australian Labor Party members of the Queensland Parliament has found it necessary to approach the National-Liberal Party Government there seeking protection from his Party in relation to a levy which his own Party has assessed on him because he is a parliamentary representative, on the ground that the levy may be a breach of parliamentary privilege? Would the Minister be prepared to say whether the Federal Government would give consideration to protecting Federal members of Parliament from this form of financial and political coercion which amounts to the purchase of endorsement for Parliament? 
Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware of the recent report concerning the possible redesigning and standardisation of the size of Australian banknotes? Is he aware that Australian blind people until now have enjoyed an advantage through the fact that our banknotes have been of differing sizes which has allowed people with visual handicaps to be independent of sighted assistance in monetary transactions? Can the Minister say whether the reports are true? Will he undertake to indicate to the Reserve Bank that on humanitarian grounds such a move would be unwise? 
-In my short time as a senator I have observed some rather interesting things, particularly in relation to education debates. I was elected to this Senate with a fair sort of background in the area of education. I came into a parliament which was spending enormous sums of money in the general area that we refer to as education. I was initially appalled by the lack of real interest that people in this Parliament took in what they were talking about. If one judges by the debates on education that take place in this Parliament it would seem that all one needs to be capable of making decisions on policy in relation to education is firstly to have been to school oneself; secondly, preferably to have had children who have gone to school; and thirdly- this is purely an option- to have witnessed at some stage or another students in an educational institution. 
We hear things expounded in this Parliament which more closely relate to poetry than policy on the subject of education. We have just heard a fascinating speech from  Senator Melzer.  I do not mean this personally, but I say in all sincerity that a lot of it would have been more appropriately set to music than delivered in a debate on education. It would have been more interesting to hear some comment on the subject of what education is all about. 
This evening we are debating a large number of Bills which give great scope to the Senate to have a debate on the broad issues in education. I hope nobody will accuse me of oversimplification, because public debate on education is obviously a vexed and a difficult one. The input is coming from many sources. Just latterly the input is coming from sources that I do not think anybody would have anticipated just a few months ago. We are continually seeing articles on the subject of education in newspapers and in news magazines. We are hearing more and more, through letters to the editors of newspapers or letters to members of parliament, a cry of concern about what on earth is happening in education in Australia today. We must take note of it. 
I do not suggest for one minute that we ought to respond to it on a superficial level. I have been here long enough at least not to respond in these terms. We ought not to gauge any of our policies according to that interest group which is most successful at producing Press releases or at mobilising numbers of people to write certain stereotyped letters on the subject of education. I raise this general point because it is interesting to look at the Opposition's proposed amendment to the motion to the second reading of these Bills in this light. There is a suggestion that at the end of the motion certain words ought to be added in relation to technical education. It very much interests me- somebody who has been here a mere  Vh  years- to thus be informed what officially is the new sacred cow in education. I have seen a number of them pass, or lumber, through this chamber in those 2  n  years. 
In my life in the area of education, which is virtually the whole of my life, I have seen a great herd of them lumber through the Australian society. I now wonder what it has been all about. I have worked in educational institutions and in the educational establishment and ! have observed educational establishments as an administrator and as a practitioner. What a lot we have to learn about modern Australian society from the education establishment and how much indeed are other establishments learning from the precedents set by the educational establishment. The procedure is simply to establish something as a sacred cow. One then sets up some sort of committee of inquiry drawn from members who have a vested interest in the furtherance of the cause of the political sacred cow. Not surprisingly, predictably, those commissions of inquiry invariably come up with a recommendation to the effect of: 'What this country really needs is more people like us'. That is the recommendation to the government and if any government dares to challenge that recommendation it is daring to challenge the sacred cow which is so well established that it has led to the establishment of committees of inquiry, commissions, probably sub-departments within departments and inevitably, by the time the report of the committee of inquiry comes in, a whole new academic discipline in itself. We have had endless commissions of inquiry into education in Australia. Please do not misunderstand me. We will probably need many more. We have undoubtedly benefitted much from a number of those we have had. But surely it is not surprising that when one turns to educationists and asks them: What is really wrong with education in Australia, that the answer one invariably receives is: There are not enough educationists; that is what is wrong with education in Australia. That is part of the process of establishment of the sacred cow. 
I refer again to the amendment proposed by the Opposition. Let me not be misunderstood, much less misconstrued. Members of the Government have never, I hope, said anything which would lead anyone to suggest that we do not recognise the needs in the technical educational area. However I am curious about why that issue above all the great educational issues which arise naturally or superficially in public debate today, has been chosen. I remember a time not very long ago when the voguish sacred cow was Aborigines and Aboriginal education. That has apparently been by-passed and now we have a new one. I believe the Minister can deal in detail with any challenges made to the Government in the area of technical education. I will leave that to him. 
I want to look next at the most recent sacred cow in education in Australia, that of Aboriginal education, of which we have heard nothing from the Opposition so far. I think it would be salutary to look at what happened to the people who have been subjected to various changes of policy in that area and at what they have gained educationally. While the analogy might be limited because of very particular social factors, in political terms it is not limited if we can learn a lesson about how to proceed with policies in relation to any area of education. The matter of education of Aborigines, a very specialised area, was in great vogue just a few short years ago. 
The Labor Government undertook some measures in relation to Aboriginal education, specifically in the Northern Territory. That is one of the areas of Australia in which the Federal Government has a very direct and a very specific responsibility. Because this debate has been used largely as a vehicle for debating what State education departments are or are not doing- conveniently those involved in the debate have overlooked the fact that the Commonwealth Government has a full responsibility for education in the Territories- it ought to be pointed out that before any member of the Commonwealth Parliament can point the finger he ought to look at the Commonwealth Government's record in that area in which it has an exclusive responsibility. I am well aware that  Senator Robertson  will follow me in this debate. He has a very particular experience of education in the Australian Territories. He has treated the Senate to some very valuable contributions on specific areas of education on previous occasions. I am sure he will take in the right spirit what I am about to say. As somebody who is interested in education- not as somebody from the Northern Territory, but as somebody who recognises that all members of the Commonwealth Parliament have a very particular responsibility for what happens in education in the Northern TerritoryI feel morally obliged to make a statement this evening on the subject. My experience of the educational situation in the Northern Territory is not as long as that of somebody like  Senator Robertson,  but I have a fairly general experience in education. I have been to the Northern Territory on more than one occasion and have witnessed certain things. It is reasonable that I should make some sort of assessment of what is happening in class rooms and what appears to be the flow-on benefit or otherwise to the community from what is happening in the class rooms. 
We have had too many sacred cows and too many easy, glib answers on education in Australia. Nothing shows that better than the parlous state of education of Aborigines. Many experiments have been tried. There was some comment in this debate on areas in which more money should be spent. If one looks at the situation in the Northern Territory one sees that the lack has not been money. A great deal of money has been spent. More money might possibly have been spent. In fairness, one would have to say that it is not lack of resources which has led to failures in the system. In my opinion, what has led to failures in the system has been lack of planning; lack of care; lack of recognition of the objectives of education anywhere, but particularly in relation to this group in our society; lack of a clear understanding of the terms in which we are accountable to our country for any educational policies which we pursue; and lack of understanding of where education policy fits into a general social policy. 
One thing that can be said very easily about Aboriginal education, as perceived in the Northern Territory, is that education cannot be isolated. If one wishes to talk about this subject, wishes to make a contribution or wishes to make some suggestion about what ought to happen, one cannot do it in purely educational terms. The social factors which prevail and which influence the good which any policy may do are overwhelming. The old idea that education made available without any discrimination on the basis of financial means thereby raises the standard of people has been very obviously disproved in this particular area. Money has been available. Assistance has generally been available to individuals. Results have not come. The standards of the Aboriginal people have not been raised. We have a disillusioned people who had promises made to them- they had a promise of a better world made to them, they had some rosy vision shown to them, they pursued a course which should have led to the fruition of that promise or that vision. That promise or that vision has not come to fruition because the promise was not well related to the vision. 
I am saying to  Senator Melzer  that trendy ideas of what ought to happen in education in that area have not been related to a proper, careful study of the factors which should operate. One can see in Darwin, Alice Springs and other places very impressive edifices. I do not decry them in any way. I think it is admirable that they are there. I think they ought to be utilised, but they do not solve the problem. If the training which is given in them does not equip those people to go back into their own community- a type of transition community between the 'noble savage' state and the white society by which they are surrounded and with which they are constantly in contact- if it does not give them the means of coping with that situation, it is a failure in educational terms. If we take young people from their families, a great cost to their race, and separate them from their families, if we teach them to read and write and do not give them any means of living by those skills but send them back to a society in which those skills are not used but are forgotten we have somehow or other failed those people educationally. 
The whole matter of what we ought to be doing in that area, I suggest, ought to be pursued with great caution. They are nice, equivocal words. They do not necessarily boil down to something useful. Can I pursue a particular example? If one travels around the fringe camps of Alice Springs one sees parents and children living in a state of absolute squalor. In one camp which I have visited one child out of thirty-six of school age was attending school. The reasons the other children were not attending school varied. The reason why that single child was attending school was that both its parents had a certain minimal level of education, and they were of the few, as far as I could gather, of their race who still believed that education for their children meant something for the future of the childrenthe opportunity of a decent life. The other children were not at school for a variety of reasons. Primarily, their parents were not motivated to send their children to school. That is not surprising. On what basis does one motivate people if one cannot say at the end: 'Here is something which is of benefit to you or your children"? One cannot hold out nothing but hope any longer. Too often in this area in recent years hope has been an illusion for that race. 
Further how can one expect parents to send their children to school when, frankly, the parents have barely allowed the children to sleep all night? We have to face a very strong moral responsibility in relation to these people. I well remember the debate many years ago about whether alcohol ought to be available to Aborigines. A Senate committee brought in a report on this subject. A House of Representatives committee is investigating the subject. There is no longer any dispute that it is the major Aboriginal problem that we must face. Somehow we must find a solution to it. When we see children asleep over their desks at school and we know that one of the reasons why those children are asleep is that they have been unable to sleep the previous night in their camp as a direct result of the avail.ability of alcohol, we must ask ourselves: What on earth are we doing? The taking away of alcohol will not solve that problem. Refusing to recognise that it is a problem is even more dangerous and more stupid. That is a fact. 
When one enters these fringe camps one sees the ground littered with broken glass and rusty tin cans, and one is aware of the non-existence in many cases of hygienic conditions to the point that one can marvel at the fact that more than half of the Aboriginal children live to school age without succumbing to either tetanus or hepatitis. One can enter another camp where the facilities in theory are excellent- the buildings are sturdy, the toilets automatically flush but one finds that the Aborigines themselves reject what would appear to be a reasonable transitional social stage. One knows that the more of those rudimentary huts that are built, the more Aborigines will be attracted to the basic facility of running water if nothing more. One nevertheless sees that the camp is full of school age children, not at school, running around, in no way attracted to school and in no way motivated themselves or through their parents to attend school which is easily accessible, to which they could be transported by a free bus which calls regularly. Attendance at school presents no actual hardship. 
When we look at these types of families and see the nomadic life that many of them live, we realise that one of the problems that we face is that we are trying through building edifices to make those people fit into a physical structure which is quite foreign to them. We realise also that the answer is not easy. It is not just a matter of building schools. When one talks to the teachers at those schools, one discovers that they think that it is a fortunate case if a particular child attends a school for an average of 3 days per week. Then one knows that the sort of schooling that is being offered and into which the Aborigines are expected to fit is in no way realistic. 
What are the alternatives? I do not pretend to have all the answers. We see some interesting things happening in the Northern Territory. Some colleges take Aboriginal children from their families and train them to a certain level of ability in literacy and numeracy and they train some of those children to achieve a certain ability in subjects such as manual crafts, hygiene, child care and nutrition. We think that must represent a basic start. Then we find out that the best of those students who reach high school level are sent off to the local high school inevitably, it seems, to wither on the vine. Some of themsome very few of them- succeed when taken out of that sterile or artificial, if we may describe it that way, environment and are put into the real world environment. The important aspect surely is that, having tried a transitional stage, all that we achieve is that their education ceases. Somehow these potential leaders lose their motivation. It comes through loud and clear in the whole area of Aboriginal policy in Australia that the Aboriginal people need leaders of their own race, people who understand the problems of their own race, who can communicate to them and who, through their own success or whatever it is that moves that race, can motivate them to try to lift themselves to basic standards of decency. 
I am obliged to say that while I think that we can learn many things that we need to know from the Aboriginal culture- and I do not believe that we have ever seriously tried in the past- the pursuit of the 'noble savage' theory is not one which will benefit us anything. Aborigines are in contact with the white community in Australia today. They witness it. They are aware of it. They may not be in contact with it for the majority of each year, but it influences them irrevocably. Unfortunately, in all too many cases, the influence is the very worst that the white society could possibly have on that race. We must recognise that the white community has influenced them. We must accept responsibility for the consequences. So, to pursue the 'noble savage' theory and say 'Let them wander in the deserts. Let them wander as they like. Let them take the worst from our society and manage as best they can' is totally irresponsible. Education must be part of the key. We probably have to educate ourselves first a lot further. We must understand better what the cultures of all those tribes are. We must appreciate those cultures. There are some areas where I personally believe we could embrace certain aspects of Aboriginal culture to the betterment of our culture. 
What we must do above all else is guard against the easy answer, because we just do not know enough about the problem. We must recognise that each step must be taken carefully, because the damage which has been done so far through unwise steps is virtually incalculable. We must recognise that each step should be based on the best possible knowledge and that we ought to act with the best possible motivationnot the pursuit of the political 'sacred cow' of education, not the pursuit of a mere handful of votes, but the pursuit of that which will vindicate this society some time in the future through the only reasonable basis of judgment- the benefit to the people to whom it is directed. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware of allegations made by  Ms Elizabeth  Reid, a former adviser to the Labor Prime Minister, that the Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr Peacock,  has blocked her application for a senior position in the women's section of the United Nations Centre for Social Development and Humanitarian Affairs? Can the Minister tell me whether or not  Ms Reid's  application was a private one? What bearing did applications from 2 men, being supported by the Government, for other United Nations posts have on the Minister's or the Government's decision? 
-I find it interesting to hear from the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt)  that the Opposition is not opposing this legislation, the Customs Tariff (Coal Export Duty) Amendment Bill. That is in contradiction of the line that the Opposition took in the other place. The opening words of the Opposition spokesman on this subject,  Mr Keating,  in debating this measure were that the Opposition opposes this legislation. Actually, in the other place the matter went to a division. I am pleased that in the time that has elapsed from 21 October until today, 1 December, the Opposition has changed its mind. It might well have changed its mind on this subject well before 1976 in fact. Last year in this place we had a debate about the effect of the coal export levy. I am pleased the present Government has seen fit to announce that the levy will be phased out commencing in this financial year. 
In the debate in this place last year I pointed out that the mining industry was an industry the future of which is particularly important to the State from which I come, namely, Queensland. In that debate I pointed out in detail that $250m at least had been invested in Queensland by the coal industry, not just in terms of extracting coal from the ground but in terms of providing homes, railways, ports and infrastructure which are of permanent value to a part of the Australian nation. At that time the previous Government was bent on introducing a levy which has done the coal industry no good. There is some evidence to suggest that it did active harm in the 12 months which have passed since it was introduced. Without doubt, the decision by the previous Labor Government to introduce a coal export levy damaged Australia's international reputation as a potential point of investment. As was pointed out in the debate last year and as has been borne out in fact, potential investors in the future of our nation very much feared the future of investments in the mining industry in Australia under a Labor government. Having introduced the levy, there was no reason to expect that at some time in the future the Labor Government would not indeed have seen fit to increase it. The form and manner in which the levy was introduced were purely discriminatory. The levy was not justified on any rational basis; it was justified on the basis of dislike for certain mining ventures, dislike for certain industries and firms, but never on an objective basis. 
It is worth pointing out at this point that coal has only recently become a highly profitable industry in Australia. There are many firms still involved in mining of all forms, including coal, in Australia which are not making a decent profit. Coal having reached the stage of development where it was starting to return reasonable profits, the Labor Government in its own paranoia and dislike of international money and certain international firms, slapped on a coal export levy which did no good for the future of this country and in fact did no good for the future of Australian firms which were involved in the coal mining industry. It was not surprising that those who might have looked to investing money in this area of enterprise in Australia to provide jobs, decentralisation and a sound basis for the economic development of our country and my State of Queensland in particular, had no reason to be optimistic about the future that they faced when investing money in that area. In fact there is reasonable evidence to suggest that the effect of that coal export levy flowed over into other areas of investment and specifically other mining areas of investment in Australia. 
Having imposed the discriminatory levy on those who produced coal in Australia there were those who felt that there was no reason but that a Labor Government at some time in the future might not choose to impose other such levies on other mineral projects. The dampening effect that that one piece of legislation, imposed for no good reason, had on the whole pattern of development and plans of development of mining in Australia, coal in particular, was very profound. I said that the levy was discriminatory. It operated equally against profitable companies and marginal companies. It made no differentiation in its application between those different types of companies. Nor should it have. But in justifying it the then Minister and apologist for the Labor Government spoke only of the 'Utahs' and so on, the companies which had invested vast amounts of money in this industry and which were just starting to realise a substantial profit. In their paranoia about these companies members of the former Government chose to impose a levy which did great damage to more marginal companies operating in the area. 
The fluctuations of profitability in all mining areas, including coal, are well known. The effect of such an action, with the knowledge of those who may be interested in investment in mining that at some time in the future profitability may well plummet, was profound indeed. It is not so long ago that Mount Isa was thought to be a place flowing with milk and honey. I think all of us in this place know what has happened to copper prices in the last couple of years and we all know that Mount Isa has its difficulties in planning for and looking to the future. I might say that Mount Isa Mines Ltd has been an extremely good employer, as it has been for some time now. It has not dismissed staff although its staff numbers, by natural wastage, have declined. 
This situation shows that for reasons which are beyond the control of the national Government the profitability of what appeared to be a flourishing and sound mining venture can very quickly decline. Such is the pattern of mining ventures. Coal has not declined. Coal has continued to earn for Australia a large amount of money in exports. But there can never be any guarantee in the mining area that this will continue indefinitely. Uncertainty, proven potential for fluctuations in that area and a government which was bent on discriminatory policies against the mining area were factors which had a stern and marked effect on the development of the mining industry in Australia. 
I cannot emphasise strongly enough the effect of that in real terms, In the debate last year I pointed out how the coal mining industry alone in Queensland had been responsible for the creation from scratch of several flourishing towns. It had been responsible for bringing many thousands of workers to certain areas of Queensland and naturally providing housing and jobs and a livelihood for many thousands of Australians who may or may not have been Queenslanders before they chose to make themselves part of that mining venture. That is what mining means in real terms. At page 2153 of the House of Representatives  Hansard  it is reported that in the debate in the other place  Mr Connor  said: 
Today, particularly in the coalmining industry, Labor's policy holds despite the  fulminations  and vilification of the present Government. 
There are no facts which support that in real terms. The Labor Government's policy set out to damage areas of the coalmining industry. We reject that policy. We look forward to a time, and we think we see the signs now, when the mining industry once again will provide many jobs for Australians, provide a real alternative future away from the factories and the overcrowded capital cities of our nation, and will continue to play its part in the pioneering and development of our nation. 
I mentioned a few minutes ago that the coal industry was not a particularly good profit earner until fairly recently. Until 1974-75 the average profit rate, so far as one can strike a figure, was approximately 3.5 per cent. The boom in coal came subsequently and, when the boom came, the Labor Government lowered the boom, so to speak. I am informed that the coal levy added 2 1 per cent to the total cost of production of that industry. So while the levy may have sounded a fairly small amount, in real terms as a proportion of the cost of producing a tonne of coal it was 2 1 per cent, which is significant when we are trading on an international market and do not have the protection that some other Australian industries have. We know that the lowering in cost competitiveness of Australian coal led Japan, our major consumer, to look to other countries as potential suppliers for the future when the present contracts expired. The countries we know Japan investigated as potential suppliers of coal were Canada, Russia, Poland, the United States of America and South Africa. There is no doubt that our major customer in that area was looking to other suppliers and I take it that that is what  Mr Connor  meant when he said that the Labor policy was a good one and we abided by it. What a mockery of the facts. It does not matter what words  Mr Connor  may have used in that debate. It does not matter what justification he may have used when Minister. The facts are that those who wish to buy the product speak louder. 
There are some indications that the Government's policy in the mining industry in general, and in the coal mining industry in particular, will bring profits. I mentioned the Mount Isa mine a little earlier in relation to copper production. Mount Isa Mines is now interested in developing some coal mining areas in Queensland. MIM has never previously been involved in the export of coal but it presently has, as is public knowledge, plans to expand and upgrade the Collinsville area. In a merger with Collinsville Coal Pty Ltd there are plans to develop this area further and recently MIM stepped up negotiations with Japanese steel mills in relation to this development with a view to exporting coal through the Bowen area. That sort of development can only be good as a future basis for the development of the north of our country. MIM has further interests in coal deposits in other parts of Queensland, particularly with Thiess Holdings Ltd, another Australian company. I believe it is involved in exploration in certain areas of the Hunter Valley in New South Wales. So the multinational bogey has no part in this debate. 
I am informed that presently there is expenditure of $2,000m on new pending projects for the coal industry and encouragement to invest is all to the good. All the information is that the removal of this discriminatory, punitive and quite irrational tax will encourage some of that development.  Senator Wriedt  referred to the Norwich Park development which is another area of interest of Utah Construction and Mining Co. I have sought detailed costing of what the actual investment, details of investment and proportions of investment will be from the various companies involved and interested in developing coal is Australia. I am told that those details are very difficult to get because with the delay that has now happened as a result of the slow down in interest in developing the coal industry in Australia over the last 12 months some of the costings have become out of date and that the new costings in the pickup we now see will not be sufficiently accurate. So I can give only previous costings which can be taken as approximate. 
I am told that the cost of infrastructure for the development of the coal industry, whatever the total figure for development may be, is approximately 75 per cent of investment. That is, of the money which the companies are investing in the industry, approximately three-quarters is spent on providing such things as railways, ports, roads, town dams and all the things associated with building new towns or developing existing towns. Three-quarters of the money which is being spent by these companies is going into building in a very real and definite sense the material surroundings of the citizens of this nation. Twenty five per cent of the total cost goes towards actual development of the mining deposits. That needs to be borne in mind. 
I shall give a couple of examples before my time runs out. In Queensland one such potential development is at Hail Creek. This is an area which has been looked at for some time and there has been some change in the interest of certain mining ventures. The question now is whether they want to be involved. I am told that currently the partners who are looking to develop it are Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd and Australian Associated Resources, a company which has been involved in coal exploration in Australia since 1965 and is interested in many coal deposits in Queensland. The Hail Creek area was first researched in 1969. It was evaluated in 1971 and we are looking forward to getting it off the ground in 1977. That means that since 1971, when it was first evaluated as a potentially profitable area of mining, 5 years have passed, three of them under the Labor Government, and in the last 12 months the coal mining industry has faced this iniquitous levy. It is believed now that all partners will be committed by August 1977. It will take a minimum of  Vh  years to construct the infrastructure and get development to the point where the project will be underway. That is the sort of lead time we are talking about. At a stroke we can destroy or set back by many years investment and development in a very important industry. This is effectively what happened under the Labor Government. 
On today's prices it is estimated that approximately $400m will need to be spent on the 
Hail Creek development and, if we say that 75 per cent of that goes on infrastructure, it means that at today's prices, which will undoubtedly have changed by the time it is finished, approximately $300m will go into the building industry, into the building of roads and railways, dams, ports and other facilities. There will be $300m direct investment in the permanent development of Australian society. The Norwich Park investment was previously costed at approximately $240m. The Thiess-Peabody-Mitsui consortium- Broken Hill Pty Ltd has taken over the Peabody interest- has a number of plans. The Moura and Kianga fields which are run by the consortium now employ 1000 men. It plans to develop Mount Nebo which will employ an additional 800 men and will cost certainly in excess of $500m. This was a project which was mooted in 1971. Planning commenced in 1974 and came to a halt, all planning suspended, in the last 18 months of the previous Government. It was only with the change of government, with changes of attitude and policy towards the mining industry, that there were indications that the Mount Nebo project would go ahead. 
I believe that we should welcome this. It is all too easy for those on the other side to pour scorn, to use invective, to use their own particular brand of paranoia against the mining industry. They choose to overlook what that means in real terms to the working man and woman- the average Australian citizen. They choose to overlook the fact that the building of railways and ports, certainly in central and northern Queensland, has led to the development and opening up of vast areas of our nation, not just for mining but in services to the other primary industries which surround those areas, and certainly as a potential tourist development. By the development of roads they have enabled transport through those areas to be far more easy, far more attractive. They have led many people through Queensland to look at the fascinating developments that are taking place- fascinating indicators of the future trends of our nation. It is not good enough that those sorts of enterprises are dismissed with the invective of multinational profit, which apparently is a dirty word in mining terms. 
As a Government member, I welcome the attitude of this Government towards properly planned mining development in this nation. As a Queensland senator I particularly welcome the opportunity for future development in the coal mining industry in my State. I congratulate the Government on its foresight; firstly in reducing the levy and, secondly, in announcing that ultimately it will be phased out over 3 years. 
Without a doubt those who wish to invest for profit in the future of this country, and they are entirely justified in that, welcome this decision, as will many ordinary Australians who look forward to reaping the benefits of employment and a higher living standard from the decision. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Treasurer. It relates to the imposition of the Medibank levy on deceased estates. By way of background, I indicate that a case has come to my attention of somebody who died in May 1975 and whose estate has not yet been settled but is still earning income. The Taxation Office has advised the solicitors handling the estate that, in addition to paying tax and provisional tax, this gentleman's estate must pay the Medibank levy. I ask the Minister: What possible rationale could the Taxation Office have for charging the Medibank levy against someone who is now dead? Is the Government prepared to look at this ridiculous situation? 
I am not sure whether I should direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry or to the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. It relates to the import of New Zealand beef into Queensland. Is the Minister aware of a news report today that Thomas Borthwick and Sons (Australasia) Ltd is importing New Zealand beef for sale in Queensland, apparently on the ground that it is feed lot beef? Feed lot beef, of course, is available in Queensland. It is produced basically on the Darling Downs. In view of the critical situation of the beef industry in Queensland, can the Minister say why this company, which announced this week that it was exporting Queensland beef to Russia, is permitted to import beef? Is it truly a reflection of market demand or more a reflection of the standing of this company amongst beef producers in Queensland? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. I refer to the Minister's statement in an earlier answer that the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development has been studying the problems of the transition from school to work in Australia. I ask: What are the background and origins of this study? When is the report being released? Is the Department of Education in contact with the study? Will the results of the study be made available to the Australian public? 
I bow to my Leader's commendable concern for honesty. I shall direct my comments not to the substance of the merit of the referendum proposals, but to the actual motion which is before the Senate, which is for the suspension of Standing Orders about which there has been some disagreement. In the interests of honesty which my Leader holds so high, I shall indeed confine my comments to that aspect. 
There has been some suggestion- indeed it has been very forcibly put by  Senator Missen-  that the Government or the Parliament or the Senate or whichever should be well informed as to public opinion. I am obliged to say that to my knowledge, prior to the Constitutional Convention of last October, there was no consultation as such on this issue of this Parliament. The only previous consultation of the Senate on the issue was during a debate in 1975 when the Liberal and National Country parties unanimously voted against such a proposal. We find ourselves in a very particular difficulty this evening which I find distressing, and one must be open about that. The Opposition may find some hilarity in it. I find some personal and political distress in it. In 1975 the Australian Labor Party decided that it would introduce a Bill supporting referenda and all ALP senators voted for it. At that time, we in the then Opposition opposed it and all voted against it. It is not surprising that the ALP is supporting the proposal now because the proposal is consistent with what it put forward. We on this side of the House obviously find ourselves in a different situation. 
The reason why I oppose the motion moved by  Senator Durack  is simply that there are other possibilities whereby one could bring about the end result of simultaneous elections, if it is agreed that that is desirable for the Parliament and the nation of Australia. There are other means. They have not been canvassed in this House or anywhere else with any degree of adequacy. Defeat of the motion to suspend Standing Orders requiring a 21 -day call of the Senate would enable us to consider alternative proposals which would bring about the objective of simultaneous elections if we were agreed that that is what we want. 
I say in conclusion because I wish to speak only briefly that I find it surprising that I am chastised for not having read in the newspaper what the Government's intentions were. I have been advised publicly and privately not to take my lead on what the Government's intentions were from the newspapers. It appears that my main sin in this proposal is that I have not followed the newspapers closely enough. By way of personal explanation, I wish to say that I was absent from Australia when the most recent story appeared in January in the newspapers. No newspapers or Press reports were available to me. The first I was aware that the Government intended to proceed with this proposal this year, in this session, in such haste, was when I read a copy of the  Australian  newspaper last Wednesday morning. Whatever the arguments might be that I should have been better informed I do not believe that that is good enough. Opposition senators might feel that they have some reason to derive some glee from the tone of the debate here this evening. I say to them only that one of the very real reasons why, when making a completely free choice on the matter, I chose many years ago to join the Liberal Party was that I thought honesty and conscience were important. 
According to  Senator McLaren's  standards it is possible that I am in error in even thinking. But that is indeed what I think. I cannot pretend to support a motion with which I am in total opposition. 
-We are under some time constraints in this debate. We are limited, because of the mechanics of the Senate and because of the mechanics to which this Parliament must subject itself in the next few days in order to prorogue the Parliament, in the time that we can spend on the Bill. Therefore, my time is necessarily limited. Most senators have adhered to a voluntary restriction on their speaking time. I hope that in the time available to me, I will be able to outline the factors that are the basis of my opposition to the Government's Bill on so-called simultaneous elections. 
The opposing cases, as I see it, are that on one hand this Bill is being presented as a convenient adjustment of the mechanics of the election provisions of the Constitution; on the other, it is being opposed in my case on the grounds that enactment of this legislation would result in a substantial and radical change in the nature of the Senate and in the distribution of political power in Australia in a way which I believe would be to the long term detriment of this country. In the ultimate, the proposal can enable simultaneous elections but does not, as suggested, ensure them. 
The challenge to the Senate which is contained in this legislation is profound. It is a fond pastime of political scientists and political journalists to discuss whether the Senate is indeed a States' House, in the light of the rise of the enormous and very powerful political parties in this country. It is argued that, because those parties have risen to such pre-eminence and because they have overwhelmingly been the basis of representation in the Senate, somehow or other the States nature of the Senate has been lost. I reject that assertion. 
It never ceases to amaze me that those who earn their living from observing the political situation overlook some fundamental factors in the operation of the whole system. In fact, they choose to look only at the structure and the superficial effects of some operations of the system and to draw a conclusion which is not true for the total picture. 
If the Senate is composed of members who, for the main part, represent the major political parties, that reflects a fact of deliberate political choice by the Australian people. It is a fact that the Australian voters choose overwhelminglyindeed, almost unanimously- to vote for one of the major political parties in elections, be they Senate or House of Representatives elections. If the voters choose that means, notwithstanding the fact that they have alternative candidates in Independents and minor parties, then I think we ought to accept their verdict. I suggest that their verdict is that the 2 major political attitudes in Australia are, on the one hand, a proposal for socialism as embodied in the Australian Labor Party and, on the other hand, a proposal for a system of government and society which believes in the individual. If the voter chooses to direct his activities in that way, that affects the Senate but it does not negate it. If the voters of Queensland choose to vote in such a way that the final ballot box result shows that 60 per cent of them believe that the propositions put forward by the Liberal and National Country Parties are the sound ones on which this country should proceed, and if 40 per cent of them hold the opinion that the policies of the Australian Labor Party are the ones that should be supported, it worries me not at all if, when the Senate is voting on a Bill affecting my State of Queensland and the issues in that Bill are as defined by the political philosophies, the vote on that Bill affecting Queensland results in 6 of the 10 Queensland senators- that is, 60 per cent- sitting on one side of the chamber and the remaining four, representing the minority viewpoint in that State, sitting on the other. In those positions they are reflecting the deliberately and specifically expressed opinion of the electorate of Queensland. 
No honourable senator would be honest if he suggested that the political party system entirely overrides his State representation considerations. It is unfortunate that the important debates in relation to which this is an issue and a factor, take place basically in confidence- that is, in the confidence of the respective party rooms. Every honourable senator- certainly every one on this side of the chamber and I assume every one on the Opposition side of the chamber- has been in the situation in a party room where he or she has found it necessary to rise to his or her feet and express a point of view on either Government or Opposition policy in the light of the effect that that policy would have on his or her State. I have done that and, in the brief time that I,have been here, many other senators have done that, and I have seen that action change Government and Opposition policy. 
-Senator Button, who comes from the State of Victoria, claims that it does not happen. He can speak for his Party. I said that I only assumed it to be the situation in the case of the Opposition. It certainly has been the situation on the part of the coalition Parties, both in Government and in Opposition, in the 3 years that I have been here. 
Much is made of the fact that the Senate took  the form of a States House in order to protect the smaller States. I think that a couple of the facts in relation to the current day situation ought to be mentioned. Some people argue that the Constitution should be changed for the sake of change, simply because it has been in a certain form since 1 90 1 , and that the reasons which obtained in the 1890s are no longer necessarily relevant. I shall quickly point out a couple of facts. Seventy-nine of the 127 seats in the House of Representativesthat is, a substantial majority- are drawn from the States of Victoria and New South Wales. A substantial majority of the members of the House of Representatives come to this Parliament representing attitudes and conditions which obtain in only 2 States. They do so because there is a majority of voters in those 2 States. I suggest that we should consider carefully all the theories that have ever been put forward on the tyranny of the majority before we say that those facts alone negate the right of the Senate to exist. 
I also mention that it is a fact that more than 80 per cent of the actual operating head offices of public companies- the actual operating head offices as distinct from the registered head offices- are located in Sydney and Melbourne. Eighty per cent of our public companies are centred on those 2 cities. 
It is an admission of many things. As a member of the national Parliament, there is one thing of which  Senator Button  ought to be aware if he is performing his national duty; that is, that the sheer size of our country tends to lead to a concentration of certain activities in the cities of Sydney and Melbourne for reasons of convenience and economy. Nevertheless, that form of political power- economic political power- is exercised overwhelmingly from those 2 cities. While we do not need to be paranoiac and we do not need to be over-parochial, we do need to be realistic and we in this Parliament should be realists in terms of the effect that numbers and economic political power have on the system. The existence of the Senate balances that concentration of power and it is a balance which does operate for the benefit of our nation. The brake is necessary for the national good. 
I again remind the Senate that in 1961 the Menzies Government went to an election, which it all but lost and which many people would say it richly deserved to lose- one of the reasons being that its policies had had a very detrimental effect in the State of Queensland. We had then a very poor economic situation. The State, in terms of its economy, was not as soundly based then as it is now and the Federal Government's policies had harmed the voters of the State of Queensland. That was pointed out to the Federal Government repeatedly and forcefully. It chose not to take any notice of that State, which held only 18 of the, I believe, 123 seats- I may stand corrected on that- in the House of Representatives. It was because of the displeasure of the voters in that State with the disregard which the Federal Government had for that State's interests that  Mr Menzies,  the then Prime Minister, came within a handful of votes of becoming  Mr Menzies,  the Leader of the Opposition. 
I well remember that in April 1963  Mr Menzies,  accompanied by Dame Pattie, visited Queensland for a public meeting in the Festival Hall. It was written up in all the newspapers as a toe-in-the-water exercise'.  Mr Menzies'  advisers had told him at that time that the situation in Queensland had improved and that if he wanted to go to an election to increase his majority he might well consider calling an early election because he could increase that majority in Queensland.  Mr Menzies  came in April. He was persuaded on that occasion by his advisers in Queensland, in contrast with the earlier occasion, and we had an early election which put the Senate and the House of Representatives out of step. That is the source of the subsequent difficulty in House of Representatives and Senate elections being out of step. It came about by the exercise of the power that a Prime Minister has, a very great power, to take the House of Representatives to the people. Taking advantage of that short term political situation  Mr Menzies  was returned to government with an increased majority. 
We have had debates on many occasions in a number of different contexts here on what is the right of the Senate in a bicameral system as a 
House of review. I would like to quote the words of one of my colleagues in an earlier debate in this Parliament in April 1976 because in essence I agree with them, although at that time I disagreed with him on the matter at issue. He said: 
I believe that we must be a House for all seasons. Some of our colleagues opposite have suggested that the Senate would be a House which would review legislation only when they were in government. I believe- I said this in a much unreported speech on the Address-in-Reply- that this is our duty: To be a House of Review at all times, at all seasons, no matter who is in government. Governments are not infallible. 
Those words, were spoken by  Senator Missen  when he undertook a particular pilgrimage last year on a particular issue. He was right in his sentiments although I believe that in applying them on that occasion he was wrong; but that is his right. That is the right that we all have- to take that principle and to apply it. To give the Prime Minister the power to take the Senate to an election at any time would be a divisive and intimidatory tool in the hands of whatever man or woman might hold that office in the future. The Prime Minister would have that power and it would lead, indeed, to the diminution if not the extinction of the power of the Senate to dissent from government decisions. 

 Mr President, I have here a letter which appeared in the  West Australian  newspaper on 1 April 1974. It had been my intention originally to read it to the Senate and to comment on some sections of it. However, it is a very long letter. I will read it if need be, but in the interests of time I seek leave to incorporate it in  Hansard  and then to comment on certain sections of it. 
The letter is headed Altering Senate election system'. I apologise for not mentioning before I sought the incorporation of this letter that it was written by  Mr Gordon  Freeth, a former Minister for External Affairs in a Liberal-Country Party Government. He made many sound points in relation to the referendum in 1974 on whether there should be a 'Yes' or No ' vote on this very issue when it was then put to the people. I would like to draw attention, in particular, to the second last paragraph. In commenting on the fact that the double dissolution provisions are necessarily slow in their application he made this comment: 
But they were made difficult in order to protect the Senate and to ensure that there was plenty of opportunity for negotiation, compromise, the exercise of skilful political management and above all the testing of public reaction, a process that takes time, but one which is a most important element of politics. The new proposals will tend to sidestep the double dissolution procedures. 
I recommend the sentiments of those words of a former Minister, a Liberal Minister, to this Government- the sentiment of the importance in the political process of abandoning haste in times of real conflict in favour of negotiation, compromise, skilful political management and the testing of public reaction. If this Government had followed that advice we would not be in the dilemma in which we find ourselves at the moment over this proposal. In other words, the Senate is a factor for the operation of reason and cool political judgment in Australia and that is to the benefit of all of us. That is not an argument for conservatism for its own sake; that is an argument to let sanity prevail in our system. 
I want to say a few words about the effect that this proposal will have on the distribution of power in Australia. Some people have suggested that if the Senate has a very particular power over the House of Represenatives to send it to an election, which it obviously does have at the present time, that it is only right that the House of Representatives ought also to have that power over the Senate. That is a spurious argument to put forward in support of this case. It might have some superficial appeal; it has no real substance. 
Our system of parliamentary government is based on the principle of separation of powers and in the evolution of that system it had been decided in the past, and it is reiterated time and again, that it is essential that there be some proper separation of the functions of the Executive and the legislature. Increasingly, under our system, that dividing line has been blurred. In fact there is enormous power in the hands of the Executive over the legislature and it is fatuous to say that this allows power to the House of Representatives. As the system presently operates there is only one group of people with real power in the House of Representatives and they are the members of Cabinet. Of those people there is one person who has real and overwhelming power and that is the Prime Minister. The proposition now before us would give to the Prime Minister power over the Senate which he has never had before and was never intended to have. That proposition was rejected by the people in 1 974 in response to our ' No ' case. 
It also has been suggested by some members of the House of Representatives, and, indeed of the Senate that senators are afraid of 'facing their makers', as they put it. It is suggested that we are afraid of being taken to election by the Prime Minister and facing the verdict of the voters because that will lessen our degree of independence, will make us toe the line, and will ensure that the government of the time has an easier passage than many governments in the past have had. 
I suggest,  Mr President,  in view of some of the things I have detailed already, that it is the House of Representatives which has fears about facing its makers. At the moment we have no choice about when we go to the people. We go to the people under a fixed arrangement set in the 
Constitution. That is the position of the Senate. But the Prime Minister has a power to take the House of Representatives to an election at any time. Prime Ministers have done it in the past, and undoubtedly will do it in the future, at tunes that suit them, at times when they think their political makers, the Australian population, are most kindly disposed towards them. That is what  Mr Menzies  did in 1963 and that is what many Prime Ministers have reserved the right to do. We in the Senate face our makers on a regular basis, on a basis which we cannot affect unless it is under the double dissolution provisions. 
It is interesting again to look at the sort of reaction that this proposal has met, coming from this Government. Overwhelmingly in the public eye the reaction must be one of cynicism. In attempting to define my own thoughts on this matter over the weekend I turned to a number of books and a number of authorities on the political system. I found it impossible to find a book on the Australian political system which dealt with the subject in which I was interested. Australian political scientists are not notable for their power of generalisation or of political theory. I read some British text books and I would like to quote one piece to illustrate the point I am trying to make about the situation of the real power of the Prime Minister in Australia. This is a comment on the British Prime Minister. The book is by F. W. G. Benemy. I believe it is a text book. It is called  The Elected Monarch.  By that the author means the British Prime Minister. He states: 
Is dictatorship in itself evil? Only if it is brutal and based on force and fear of force, and it deprives the common man of his liberties. The British Prime Minister is in a practical sense a dictator but a benevolent one. He has been trained to behave in accordance with the conventions of the constitution . . . Some might say that in suggesting that no Prime Minister would conduct himself in such an unconstitutional manner as to flout the liberty of the citizen an immodest claim is being made for the superiority of the British politician; yet this is not necessarily an egoistic attitude. It is possible to believe in the virtue of an institution without being vain. It is possible- indeed, it is very proper- to believe in the virtues of character. The Constitution is based on the unwritten principle that all those concerned with working it will honour its spirit. That is why it remains technically an unwritten Constitution. That is why the benevolent dictatorship of the Prime Minister can be accepted with relative equanimity. He can be depended on to do the Right Thing at the critical moment . . . 
In the Australian context, as a comment on the Prime Minister, one can only say: 'How quaint'. Yet that is a comment which is relevant in the British system. Let us not delude ourselves for one minute that that sort of provision obtains in Australia. 
Elections do many things, but one thing they do supremely within a political party is enforce party discipline. The enforcement comes through the sanction of the possibility of losing a party endorsement. It comes through the possibility of losing one's seat at an election- as long as there is no election one has an infinitely better chance of keeping one's seat. There is, of course, always the overriding sanction of the possibility of losing government. Those sanctions can be brought to bear with very real effect- and have been- for the sake of responding to a temporary electoral advantage. I say to the Senate and to those who may read the Senate  Hansard  to find out what this is all about: Can you imagine what would have been  Mr Whitlam  's position in 1973 if he had had this power? Without a doubt he would have taken the Senate to the people well before May 1974. Without a doubt he would have done better than he ultimately did in May 1974 when the temper of the electorate, within only a few months, started to change dramatically. The tyranny of the majority, which was one of the very real practical fears of the founding fathers, was something which our founding fathers attempted to avoid in the Constitution. The last time on which we in the Senate were consulted about our attitude to this proposal was 10 June 1975. There has been no consultation with the Government parties since then. On that occasion we voted unanimously against the proposition. Now we who oppose it are running the risk of the tyranny of the majority. 
One cannot say that it is only a matter of putting the proposal to the vote; this is the proposal which the Government has deliberately chosen to put to the vote. How can giving the Prime Minister further power to call elections ensure that the number of elections will be reduced? A number of Australian Labor Party senatorsnotably  Senator Cavanagh  and also  Senator Walsh-  have said that it is right that this proposal should go to the vote and that in the interests of a principle, therefore, this proposal is one which they will affirm. A number of amendments are to be proposed. This is no secret to any member of the Senate. These amendments provide alternative means of having simultaneous elections under particular situations but would not have the dramatic and deleterious effect of this proposal. Opposition senators who have said that they want to see the situation cleared upsimply in terms of avoiding any inconvenience in the present Constitution- will be put to the test when they vote on these amendments. 
I conclude my speech in the interests of time. There will be some comments which I shall want to make on those amendments which detail the advantages of simultaneous elections and which should not be confused with the current Bill. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
I hesitate to enter into a debate which traditionally is the preserve of lawyers but I think a couple of comments have to be made on what the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  has just said. If this amendment were the only one being proposed his comment would be justified but there are before the Committee in respect of other clauses a number of amendments which are not consistent with the position that  Senator Durack  just put forward.  Senator Wright,  as I understand it, is trying to make the point that the present Bill does not necessarily ensure simultaneous elections, and that is important. He is putting forward an amendment which would ensure simultaneous elections. As I said, if we consider only this clause and only this amendment then the amendment would indeed have the effect that  Senator Durack  has just put forward on behalf of the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott).  But that is clearly not the intention of the amendment. There are a number of other amendments which are to be debated. There are some machinery difficulties in taking the Bill clause by clause but it would be quite wrong to suggest that this amendment ought to be rejected because it will have purely the effect suggested by  Senator Durack.  I think it is important that it be made clear that that is not the intention of the people who will support this amendment. 
-I feel that I have to make a brief comment about my attitude towards this motion which I did not know anything about until  Senator Harradine  moved it. It seems to me that the Minister has now gone full circle.  Senator Harradine  objected to the Senate being tied to a decision of the Constitutional Convention about which we have heard much detail from  Senator Rae  and others today and its validity has been challenged in a real way. As I understood it,  Senator Harradine  's objection was on the grounds that the Convention was a preserve of lawyers in which neither we in the Senate nor the people participated. Now we are told by the Minister that since we have debated the matter here today it has been considered by people other than lawyers. The reason he gives us for accepting the proposal is that the lawyers decided on it at the Constitutional Convention. 
There might have been others. The last time the Senate considered this matter was 10 June 1975 when it was rejected. It was voted against unanimously by supporters of the present Government. 
I agree with  Senator Townley  's interjection that the issues will be put to the people but we do nothing for the status of the argument, the proposal, the referenda or the Parliament if we put any old issue just for the sake of it on the untenable grounds that the Minister has put to us in relation to the Constitutional Convention. There are other alternatives. The Government has refused to consider them seriously. If it had not been so determined to be hasty and push this measure through this week it would not be in the difficulty in which it is now. To argue that it ought to be put to public test just for its own sake should damn it from the outset. 

 -Mr Deputy President, I rise to speak a few brief sentences. I want to point out some things in relation to the stand I am about to take. At the beginning of the Autumn session in 1975 I voted on a resolution in the Senate which re-affirmed the principle of appointment from political parties where that was relevant. In Queensland, after the death of the late  Senator Milliner,  I stated publicly in a number of parts of the State that I supported the right of the Labor Party to nominate the then  Dr Colston  and that I thought it was deplorable that a political party should seek to profit from the death of a member of parliament. I want to put on record, because there has been general reference to Queensland, the facts that m the State Parliament, in the actual vote on the matter of who should be nominated to this House by the State Parliament a majority of the Liberal parliamentary party voted for the then  Dr Colston  and, in a subsequent ballot of the State Liberal Party, a majority voted against the nomination of former  Senator Field.  I give no more reason than that for rising to speak, except to say that to find an outline of my view honourable senators might consult the speeches of  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack and  Senator Harradine. 
I ask the Minister for Administrative Services a question following the question asked of him by  Senator Robertson.  When reviewing the rights of Territorial Senators to have available to them certain information from electoral rolls, will he consider extending the same courtesy to senators from the States? 
What an extraordinary debate this has turned into. The Opposition has moved an urgency motion relating to an alleged retreat by the Commonwealth Government on its responsibilities in education. It would have been interesting to hear some sort of development of the Opposition's ideas of what constituted a retreat in education under this Government. Instead of that I suggest that  Senator Wriedt,  when moving the motion, resembled Lord Nelson when he deliberately chose to put his telescope to his blind eye. Nelson did not see anything through the telescope.  Senator Wriedt  remembered some selected facts and presented them in a vague sort of way. 

 Senator Mulvihill reminded me of  Alice Through the Looking Glass.  We heard a fascinating miscellany of little anecdotes and heart tugging personal situations, not one of which proved anything. I concluded, after he had nearly finished talking, that he was referring to migrant education. We all know that  Senator Mulvihill  has many worthwhile things to contribute on the subject of migrants in Australia but by trying to squash the worthwhile comments that he had to make on migrant education into a false framework he did not do himself justice.  Senator Robertson  took us for a wander through the dreamtime.  Senator Robertson  had some comments to make about Aboriginal teaching aides. He reminded me of somebody who hangs over some sort of psychological or mythical 'time wall' looking back at 1975, 1974 and 1973 and refusing to see what is happening in 1977 and into the future.  Senator Robertson  made some allegations about difficulties with Aboriginal teaching aides, and completely overlooked the fact that much of the backlog in the Aboriginal school areas in the Northern Territory arises from the failure of the Whitlam Government to take notice of recommendations of its own interdepartmental committee which it set up in 1973. There are many areas in which the Whitlam Government was negligent. Information was offered to the Labor Government and it did not take it up. Elcho Island is one case in point. That is one area where early action was recommended to the Whitlam Government and the Whitlam Government neglected to look at its own recommendations. 
Let us return to the substance of the allegation that this Government has in some way retreated from its obligations. At least  Senator Robertson  tried to deal with the word 'retreat' and give it some significance and substance in relation to some of the things he said. At least he used the word in accordance with its literal meaning although the facts he presented did not prove his point. In what way could one say that the Government has retreated from its responsibilities in education? I think that there are probably 2 obvious areas of education to look at and on which to make a decision. 
One could allege, if one wanted to prove a case, that perhaps the Government had retreated in the area of funding. I suggest that  Senator Carrick  and  Senator Tehan,  in presenting the facts in the area of funding, have made it quite clear that real growth in allocations of funds has taken place and is taking place under this Government. Promises have been made by the Fraser Government that real growth will continue to take place. The time at which there was a retreat in funding was under the Whitlam Government. The figures are clear. They have been stated over and over again. Nevertheless, Opposition spokesmen keep on saying that somehow or other there has been some reduction in funding. It is interesting to see where that phrase 'reduction in funding' turns up. One sees it repeated in certain journals, newspapers and pamphlets. One sees it repeated in a context which delineates, frankly, the political allegiance of those who use it.  Senator Wriedt  at one stage chose to quote as some sort of an authority the  New South Wales Teachers Journal.  The Journal devoted a great deal of its space in the most recent issue I have seen to talking about the cuts that the Fraser Government has introduced in government spending on education. Such publications assert this and go on and on just saying it, apparently in the expectation that people will believe it. Who knows, maybe if they are lucky they will actually talk us into doing it at some time in the future. That is not the present fact. Reiteration will not make it fact. 
The Fraser Government has been committed to a real growth in funds. It re-introduced triennial funding. If ever there was a policy which dislocated, defied and retreated from all reality in the area of education funding it was the Whitlam Government's decision in 1975 to abandon the triennium and transfer education funding to a 12 month basis. That was the major retreat. The triennial system of funding had been a well established one, in the university and college areas at least, for many years. It was introduced for a good reason. It worked. That is the reason it was introduced. That is the good  reason for which it was retained. In spite of all the evidence that the triennium was necessary for proper funding, certainly in the tertiary area, the Whitlam Government abandoned it. It gave the post-secondary education area a jerk and a shock from which it is only just recovering in terms of the way in which it can plan. 
In terms of funding, for the States to enable them to meet their responsibilities, this Government has pursued policies which are very definite and real. In this context there has been quite a deal of reference to the letter of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to the State Premiers. A great part of the letter has to do with future arrangements with the states of possible future funding arrangements. I wish to make some brief comments on a couple of sections of the letter. Since the letter has figured so much in this debate I should like to have it incorporated in  Hansard  for the benefit of those who are interested in knowing the total text. I seek leave to that end. 

 The document read as follows- 

Prime Minister Canberra 
My dear Premier, 
You will be aware that, against the background of the Government's Federalism Policy, Commonwealth/State financial and administrative arrangements in a number of areas have been under examination. In this context my Government has given preliminary consideration to possible ways of improving the existing arrangements for support for schools, technical and further education, colleges of advanced education and universities. You will no doubt agree that high priority must continue to be given to governmental support for education, and that we should jointly be doing what we can to improve the efficiency and co-ordination of our efforts to get the best value possible from our outlays. 
From our own preliminary consideration, we have come to the view that there may well be significant room for improving the existing separate co-operative arrangements applying to the various sectors of education. One step we have taken in this context is the recently announced decision to replace three education Commissions with one Commission to cover the whole post-secondary area, which will enable the Commonwealth Government to receive better coordinated advice on the three separate components in the post-secondary area. 
We are interested in exploring jointly with States possible avenues for rationalisation and better co-ordination, in particular in administration and finance, across the whole education function but we fully appreciate the complexities that any such exercise entails. We certainly do not envisage any immediate changes to the present arrangements. Neither is there any attempt by the Commonwealth to retreat from its present position in which education is regarded as an area of substantial commitment, nor to reduce its overall financial contribution. 
Commonwealth funding in education ranges at present from full support for universities and colleges of advanced education to varying levels of complementary support for the schools and TAFE sectors. Co-ordinating and advisory machinery for governments also varies from sector to sector. The Commonwealth has been considering the possibility of more even funding arrangements across all sectors whilst recognizing the traditional role of the States. We consider it is possible that a new overall system might be devised which would be acceptable to all governments and could significantly improve co-ordination between governments and rationalisation in the provision of education. We see a continuing place for the Education Commissions consistent with both Commonwealth and State responsibilities. 
We have now reached the stage where, if you are agreeable, we would wish to explore the matter with the States. 
I am writing to you, therefore, to seek your agreement to discussion without commitment at this stage being initiated by my Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  with his State colleagues. I am writing to the other Premiers in similar terms, and would be grateful for your early advice. 
Yours sincerely, 
MALCOLM FRASER 
The  Hon.  N. Wran, Q.C., M.L.A., Premier of New South Wales, SYDNEY N.S.W. 2000 
-In this letter the Prime Minister made a couple of very important comments about directions and priorities. In the first paragraph he stated some general intentions of the Fraser Government towards education. He said:   my Government has given preliminary consideration to possible ways of improving the existing arrangements for support for schools, technical and further education, colleges of advanced education and universities. You will no doubt agree that high priority must continue to be given to governmental support for education. 
If the Prime Minister had any thought of retreating in the area of education would he be making a statement of policy as clear and as unequivocal as that? Would he say that high priority must continue to be given to governmental support for education, if the Commonwealth Government was giving it a lower priority? The Prime Minister is not a fool. He knows that if he puts those words into a letter to the State Premiers they are words he will have to live up to. They are, in effect, a promise to the Premiers of the intention of the Government. He would not have put them in a letter in February 1977 with any intention of embarking shortly afterwards on some sort of retreat. 
The Prime Minister went on to say: 
We are interested in exploring jointly with States possible avenues for rationalisation and better co-ordination, in particular in administration and finance, across the whole education function but we fully appreciate the complexities that any such exercise entails. We certainly do not envisage any immediate changes to the present arrangements. Neither is there any attempt by the Commonwealth to retreat from its present position in which education is regarded as an area of substantial commitment, nor to reduce its overall financial contribution. 

 Senator Wriedt queried those words and said that they did not mean anything. I should have thought that they were clear. There is no attempt by the Government to retreat from its present position in which education is regarded as an area of substantial commitment nor to reduce its overall financial contribution. I should have thought that that statement would be as clear as anyone would need as a statement of intent from a Prime Minister on a specific area of policy. 
The Prime Minister went on to say: 
We see a continuing place for the Education Commissions consistent with both Commonwealth and State responsibilities. 
The Prime Minister used the word 'retreat' in a manner meant to negate any concept that the policies that were being pursued were a retreat. The facts bear out his statement. There has not been a retreat in funding. In fact, the States and the various areas of education spending are very much better off. 
Perhaps we ought to look at direction. Has there been any retreat in terms of policies and philosophies?  Senator Robertson  said an extraordinary thing at one stage during his speech. He said that he did not wish to look at previous governments' policies.  Senator Robertson  might not have wished to do so but he made a couple of comments on the subject along the way.  His  Leader,  Senator Wriedt,  certainly wished to do so.  Senator Wriedt  said that comparatively nothing or very little of any significance happened in education until 1972. I should like to consider that comment in a moment if I have time. He also made another extraordinary comment. He said that this Government had not achieved onetenth he then corrected himself and said onefiftieth of what the Labor Government achieved. There has been no attempt by any of the Labor speakers to bring forward any reasonable basis of comparison between what the Labor Government achieved in education and what the Fraser Government is achieving.  Senator Wriedt  's statement, unsubstantiated and made baldly, was the basis of his assertions in relation to the retreat. Those assertions were not proven. Since proof was not brought forward to substantiate any fraction of that extraordinary statement I suggest that it ought to be rejected. 
The Government has announced policies for a Eost-secondary education commission. They h ave been defined. It is an attempt to co-ordinate and rationalise education in the post-secondary area. In my experience, the Government statement on policy has been welcomed by spokesmen in all the post-secondary areas of education. 
The possibility for some son of devolution of responsibility also lies in that policy. That is something at which we must look. Over and over again, tertiary educators have said to me that they thought it was a good idea when it was first suggested that the Commonwealth Government should take over all funding. Now they realise that there are some pitfalls and that they have handed themselves over to central planning which has operated in such a way that it has been extremely difficult for them to make what, in some cases, amount to only day to day housekeeping decisions. By attempting to rationalise across those areas the confusion between the commissions can be removed and we will have a more effective utilisation of resources. 
The Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  stated clearly during his speech that this debate really is an exercise in politics. It shows no real concern for education because there has been no worthwhile attempt to analyse education direction and policies and needs in Australia. It has been at times, at the worst, a slanging match and at other times a series of assertions from Opposition senators on isolated cases from which they did not even attempt to prove any general sort of rule, much less would they have been able to had they made the attempt.  Senator Mulvihill  gave heart warming little anecdotes about personal experiences. I would just like to say something very briefly in that context about  Senator Wriedt  's comment that nothing had happened in education prior to 1972.I was at school prior to 1972.I was at school during the 1950s when the Menzies Government was involved in the post secondary area, the tertiary area, but when the States were totally controlling primary and secondary education funding. I was unfortunate enough to attend school in a State which had a Labor Government and which had had a Labor Government effectively for about twenty or thirty years. Yes,  Senator McAuliffe,  I went to school that far back. In my home town of Brisbane there were 3 Government high schools but frankly it was easier to get a child through university with Commonwealth Government support then than it was to get a child through high school so that that child could go to university, because of the parlous state of the schools under a State Labor Government. The only real alternative for people who cared about the education of their children was to send them to private schools which were comparatively very much more expensive in those days than they are today. Just occasionally we ought to look over our shoulder and remind ourselves as to just which party has the best track record pre- 1 972 or post- 1972 in the area of education and remind people of it. We ought to suggest to them that on that basis they might draw some conclusions about credibility. 
My time has nearly expired. I would like to leave the Senate with this thought. It is worthwhile to have debates on education in Australia in this chamber and on previous occasions we have had some very interesting ones which have shown a bipartisan spirit. There is no value at all -for the purpose of good education of young or older Australians- in this sort of political exercise which is geared to a day next week when there will be some demonstrations on the subject of education. The demonstrators are welcome to express their concern, to bring forward their information and their particular expertise. It is unfortunate that this year we will not be in Canberra to hear them. Last year we were here and we had that opportunity. Nevertheless they bring forward information and a point of view which is important. The information and the point of view expressed so spuriously during this debate is irrelevant and unimportant. I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Original question resolved in the negative. 
I wish to speak briefly on this subject and to make a couple of observations. At the outset, I should like to say that it was refreshing to hear  Senator Robertson  speak in a non-partisan way, as he did for the greater part of his speech. It is always more interesting to listen to  Senator Robertson  when he is non-partisan than when he is political, not because I object to his politics but because he is always on much sounder ground when he talks about education than when he talks about politics. He has made a worthwhile contribution and I would not want to repeat many of the things he said. I would just like to pose a couple of points in relation to the National Aboriginal Education Committee. We have had at least one quite interesting debate in this Senate previously on the subject of Aboriginal education and I think we can find a great deal of common ground. 
There is a great deal of common concern throughout the community by those who care about education, those who are concerned about the plight of Aborigines in our society, and those who have a particular interest in Aboriginal education. However, there are a couple of things which need to be thought about fairly critically. Obviously the Committee will have a particular responsibility for advising the Government on policies in the area of Aboriginal education. Nevertheless, while acknowledging that the Committee has been appointed and welcoming the wisdom of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  and the Government in the appointment of the Committee, I do not think that that is the end of the Parliament's responsibility. We have a responsibility to be aware of what is happening in the area and what the problems are, and to give our own point of view which can be considered by the community at large and the Committee in particular. 
It seems to me that the first question, particularly in relation to education of Aborigines, is: Education for what? There is one sad point which our experience so far in Aboriginal education highlights. Education by itself is not of great value to an individual. If you take an individual and give him an education, no matter how well it be supported by teaching aids, by magnificent buildings, and by the most highly skilled teachers to be found, and do not give that person any objective in his education or anything on which he can subsequently use the skills he has learned, then you have not done very much at all for him. That is a large part of the story of Aboriginal education in Australia. There has been a very willing and sympathetic concern, particularly for young Aborigine people and, growing with that, we have an awareness that adult Aborigines who wish to receive education ought to be able to receive it. We have taken these young people and given them facilities which ought to have led to a good education, given the great restrictions of cultural difficulties, on the part of both teacher and student. But by and large, the Aborigines have not had much to go to, notably in the Northern Territory but also in the sparsely populated areas of Queensland and Western Australia. 
The young people who have learned to read and write, have learned the basic skills, have learned some English language skill- already having their own natural language skill- have not been able to use those things. All the evidence indicates that when these young people leave school and do not have a job to go to, do not have any means to express themselves with the skills we have gone to such great trouble to teach them, they very quickly lose those skills. In other words, the skills are not relevant to the way of life to which they go. One can look at the skills or one can look at the way of life and I think I can say that there is a general consensus that an attempt is being made through the education system to make available to Aborigines those skills that are necessary for survival in the Australian society at large, if that is what they choose. They do have a choice either to go into the Australian society at large or to continue along in their traditional way of life. 
This raises the whole general problem of education at the moment and points up its relevance. It is very nice to say in a flowery way- and this has happened at times in the Senate- how marvellous education is for its own value and what it has to do with developing the individual. Education does have those factors, but if it does not have some larger purpose which gives a very particular relevance to it then those attributes of understanding oneself and developing oneself do not go very far in the real world. That is sad but true and I think we come to the conclusion that we must look to giving some people a skill which they can employ as a basis. Obviously one of the large problems of Aboriginal education in Australia has nothing to do with the education portfolio; it has to do with providing jobs in the areas in which Aborigines tend to live in Australia. I had intended to say something about conflicts of culture but I think that point has been quite adequately covered by the speakers who have preceded me. 
-I could reiterate it,  Senator Keeffe,  I could even say it better than you did but I do not think there is much to be gained by prolonging the debate on that point. It is a point about which members of this Committee will be very forcefully aware, I am sure, when they come to considering these matters. One question which must be asked over and over again in relation to experiments in education in all areas of Australiaand again a good example is Aboriginal education- is: According to what guidelines? At the moment in the area of Aboriginal education, and I mean the total area-State as well as Commonwealththe attitudes range from virtually total neglect through authoritarianism and elitism to almost total anarchy. We have yet to settle which of those approaches towards education is of some value to the Aboriginal people. I think we ought to look very quickly to this Committee for some comment on that subject. The members of the Committee are people who have risen in life- most, if not all of them, with a great deal of sacrifice on their part. The fact that they have risen as far as they have is a great tribute to their ability and to their perseverance because all of them started with a great disability in our society. We ought to look to them for some guidance, firstly, for opinions on which of the many philosophies which obtain in Aboriginal education these days is the most relevant. We ought to look to them to produce facts to support their opinions. It seems to me that at the moment in Australia a wide variety of methods are being used. We now have extensive experience in a number of those methods and we now have a body of information which corresponds with those different methods. It ought to be possible now to start to draw some conclusions about which of those philosophies is the most appropriate in a given situation. 
As  Senator Robertson  said, the most important questions we must ask are: What do the Aborigines want? What are their opinions? What do they expect? Certainly, the white Australian, if I may use that term although it is a little offensive, has a role to play because we do have some expertise, some skills and some experience which we ought to make available to the Aborigines if they want it. Ultimately, the people on this Committee will play a critical role in advising those who are in power, those who have the means of directing funds, governments and so on in Australia on what the Aborigines want from education, both in the short term and in the long term. Of course, the most significant question is: What is the motivation which is most appropriate? 
I conclude by commenting briefly on the membership of the Committee. I have been interested in the composition of this Committee because I have had some contact with Aborigines who are interested in furthering the Aboriginal cause in Australia, particularly in Queensland but in some other States as well. In his statement, the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  said that the Government was pleased that such a large number of applications had been made for membership of the Committee. He said that it was gratifying that so many well qualified people had shown an interest in it. He indicated that about half the Committee will be appointed for a 2-year term and the remainder for a one-year term. I am familiar with some of the names on the membership list. I am familiar also with some of the names that did not get on the list. I hope that through this Committee we will not have any elite emerge. I hope that we will not have any rigid power group emerge. 
The people who are on the Committee deserve to be there but they all ought to recognise that there are others in the community who also have something to offer. I trust that the Committee will try to reach out to those people, to reach their opinions, their knowledge, their expertise, and to channel it back into the deliberations of the Committee. I hope that in the future perhaps the Government will see fit to introduce some of those people who are not currently on the Committee into its formal deliberations as members of it for the time being. I certainly hope that if that is the Government's decision, any of those members of the Committee who may be appointed for a short term and not reappointed, or those appointed for a long term and ultimately not reappointed, would not see this as any offence to their dignity or their worth but rather would see it as something for the great good of the Australian Aboriginal population. 
I ask of the Minister for Social Security a question relating to day care of children. If refers to the different positions of people involved in offering family day care and those who own private day care centres. Is the Minister aware that certain anomalies in legislation are putting the private centres at a disadvantage compared with the family day care centres? Is she aware, for example, that no equipment subsidy is provided for private centres but is provided- in fact, everything is provided- for family day care institutions; that the needy parent subsidy applies in the case of children in family day care centres but not in the case of private centres; that no standards are set by State legislation for family day care centres- for example, not even a telephone is required to deal with an emergency; and that no safety regulations at present apply in the case of family day care centres but private centres and the community subsidised centres are covered? Does the Minister agree that to some degree this is as a result of there not being State legislation to cover family day care centres? Will she please take up these anomalies and will she indicate, if the States are unwilling to act, that the Commonwealth Government is prepared to look at these areas with a view to determining future planning in relation to family day care centres? 
-I am obliged to comment on the tone of the debate so far until possibly the speech of  Senator Button.  I wondered throughout the debate whether the Opposition has been more interested in the future of education in Australia or the future of the Opposition in Australia. Without a doubt the Government recognises that the Tertiary Education Commission Bill is not a total answer. It provides a framework for what we hope is as complete an answer as we can achieve. The Bill itself does not give the total answer to human relationships and the very difficult decisions of educational administration that must be made in the near future in Australia. 
We have had some reasonably good debates on the subject of education in this chamber but on the last few occasions when we have debated education we have encountered a situation where the Opposition has continually moved amendments related only to technical education. Surely the purpose of this Bill is to try to find some way of putting all these post secondarycumtertiary areas into a context where we can debate them together realistically, where we do not have to divide one area against another, where we can make decisions which are educational priority decisions and not special interest decisions. That is the whole purpose, surely, of the Tertiary Education Commission. I am sorry that the Opposition has seen fit to move yet again a pious amendment specifically in relation to technical education at the second reading stage of this Bill. That surely defeats the purpose of the debate in which we could have engaged. 
For some time it has been obvious to those who care about education in Australia that there has been a desperate need for some sort of rationalisation or realistic assessment of what has been happening in the post secondary area in Australia. Certainly many good things have happened. There have been many exciting developments, but at the same time there has been quite a lot of Topsy-like growth which has caused many people not directly involved in the edu-' cation area but who care about what happens in the community to ask the question: 'What on earth is going on?' 
We have had a very interesting and rewarding development of universities in this country postwar. The Martin Committee report led to the expansion and development of colleges of advanced education. In more recent years there has been a particular interest in technical education which has led to the emphasis on public spending in that area which this Government has followed and subsequently to the emphasis which the Opposition chooses to make almost exclusive in debates on education in this chamber. 
I wish to address myself mainly to the purpose of the Bill but there must be some comment on some of the more outlandish statements that have been made in the course of the debate. I welcome this decision by the Government. It is the most reasonable decision that it could have made. The area of education and the proportion of federal government spending that has been taken up by it has been rapidly expanding in recent years. We have worshipped the sacred cow of education in Australia for some time- now. It has been dangerous politically ever to ask a question about whether spending money in certain areas of education was right and proper. One could all too easily be labelled anti-education when that was not a fair or true challenge. Recently we have entered a climate in which we can undertake a reasonable assessment in public debate of what is happening in the post secondary area of education. This has assisted us to reach the logical conclusion, that is, to establish the Tertiary Education Commission. A number of commissions have been operating for a greater or lesser length of time trying to carry out to the best of their individual abilities the responsibilities they have been set in their respective areas of education, universities, colleges or technical education. The rate of growth and the objective value of that growth has not been properly assessed. 
I hope that one of the educational advantages of this Bill is that we will be able to achieve a degree of objectivity in our education debate in Australia which has been generally lacking to date. I hope that a number of reports will come from the Commission on what ought to happenin the opinion of the Commission- in education in Australia, which will be open to public scrutiny. I hope they will become documents of objective value by which the public can debate the wisdom or otherwise of Government decisions which will not be subject to directions by the Commission but, of course, advised by it. The responsibility of the Government for education objectives will still exist. It is not submerged. The Government is not passing the responsibility for policy to anybody else. Governments of the future will still have to set guidelines which will, to some extent, set the councils and the commission on their paths. Governments of the future will still have to make decisions after receiving the reports which will be political as well as educational. Those decisions and guidelines will be continually measured in terms of public documents which will have some objective educational value to the country. That is what matters. 
We do not denigrate or not recognise the difficulty of definition in these 3 areas. The definitions in the Bill are as broad as they are long. That is as it should be.  Senator Button  saw fit to make some comment on definitions. In the tertiary area it is easy to make quick and not very worthwhile capital in that area.  Senator Button  saw fit to comment, for example, on provincial institutions. I inform him that I am not a member of a government which shrinks from the word provincial '. I recognise that in the tertiary area the word 'provincial' is a valuable one. I do not agree with  Senator Button  that all education institutions should be all things to all people. That is what he went on to suggest. In my own State of Queensland there is a number of education institutions which vary very much in their structure and objectives. I mention, in particular, the Capricornia Institute of Advanced Education which was built in response to a community need. Right from its beginning it has had a close relationship to the community it has served. The institution and the community have striven to preserve this relationship. This is a college of advanced education offering Arts degrees and courses in government, politics and subjects like that. It is not very helpful to ask: 'What the devil is a college of advanced education doing offering those courses?' We have to face the fact, given the patterns of provincial development in Australia, that definitions of universities and colleges of advanced education do not serve us well in terms of what education ought to be doing for all Australians. If the Capricornia Institute of Advanced Education did not offer Arts degrees and courses in government the people of the Rockhampton region would have no opportunity to study those subjects. I refer particularly, of course to certain disadvantaged groups in our community which  Senator Button  did not mention but which other speakers on his side of the chamber did. If the Capricornia Institute of Advanced Education did not offer a basic Arts degree it would not be possible, for example, for housewives of Rockhampton to receive an Arts degree. If they had to travel to Townsville or Brisbane to undertake university type educations they would not be able to do so. We have to face certain provincial responsibility in education in Australia. As a consequence we cannot clearly and finally define those areas. If we attempt to do so our tertiary education system will not be serving the country, it will be serving the academics and the politicians, it will not be serving the people. That is a fact we must all face. 
I am sure that all of us who care about education are very interested in the development that is taking place in Launceston at the moment. It has a College of Advanced Education and a maritime college is also being developed. The college of advanced education operates in what appears to be clearly a tertiary area which has been the preserve of universities and colleges for some time. The maritime college offers essentially technical education. It will offer certain subjects of study which will be very much part of the Launceston College of Advanced Education. The deliberate development of that particular educational experiment- a college of advanced education and a technical college deliberately overlapping in their courses and resources- is one that I find exciting. I am sure it will teach us much of what we need to know in the development of these 2 areas of tertiary education in Australia. It will probably give us many lessonsunder optimum conditions, I agree, because they are both new institutions- that we need to learn about tertiary education. 
As I said earlier, those who are interested and concerned about education in Australia have been aware for some time that there has been a direct and pronounced need for rationalisation in the tertiary area. There has been to a large extent a lack of overall planning in that area which has led to a proliferation of institutions. The proliferation, in itself, need not have been undesirable but, in practice, it has been. We all know of many examples of the development of institutions which are not viable individual institutions. Had their establishment been undertaken in a total tertiary education context, the questions which have been raised which would have led, I believe, to a better development of educational resources. It would be unfair to single out any individual institutions for criticism because we would be depending for our selection on our own individual knowledge. Numerous examples, to my knowledge, exist throughout the country. There are examples where courses have been developed in the most unlikely institutions of tertiary education, apparently because they have been promoted as an extension, not necessarily a logical extension, of something that was already happening in those institutions. In each case they just happened to be the first tertiary institution to ask for the resources and rights to offer those courses. The results in some cases have been ludicrous. 
We can deplore the apparent wastage of public money which has resulted but that surely is not as serious as the wastage which has occurred in the abilities and ambitions of those young people who have gone to these institutions believing that they were being offered something which would be of permanent value to them throughout their life. Those people who were motivated to lift themselves out of the unskilled area that we have heard so much about from the Opposition were, frankly, deceived and wasted their own personal as well as financial resources in undertaking courses which did not deliver the goods. I am aware of certain institutions in Queensland which, in the scramble for finance which is based very much on student numbers, have deliberately misrepresented the worth of their courses to potential students. In that misrepresentation they have attracted additional students and therefore, ultimately, additional academic staff, because so much is based on staff-student ratios. Increased numbers of staff and students have attracted additional buildings because they need a certain basic amount of space. So the empire building went on. Once the buildings are up, they are permanent- tertiary buildings. Once the staff are appointed, they are virtually permanent, because of academic tenure. The students may come and go, but those two enormous factors in our total education expenditure are not variable once they have been committed. 
We desperately need some organisation such as this commission, some instrument for education planning such as this commission, which can look at what to date have been competing sectors of education. That planning instrument is needed to advise us in areas of competition for resources between universities, colleges and technical colleges on the sensible disbursement of funds and forms of development that would meet national education objectives. That can only be in the interests of those young people, and older people too these days, who seek training and education and in whose interest it clearly is that we make the best possible use of our resources. 
In that context one must use the word rationalisation. It is a word that can be used or abused. It can sound cold and not very worthy, but it can also mean a sensible development of our resources. In this country we have a high level of education. We are so aware of what is available and what the possibilities are. But we, like every country, have limited resources. We have educated people sufficiently to be aware of the possibilities. We have not necessarily educated them sufficiently to be aware of what the costs of those possibilities are, both in general community and in particular personal terms. 
Nobody. 

 - Senator Wriedt can ask me to table my speech if he likes. It is written in note form and in pencil. I do not think it would be of much benefit to anybody, even  Hansard.  To suggest that anybody has written my speech is the most ludicrous suggestion that the Opposition has made so far in this debate. 
In the area of planning we have to look at the very particular systems the 3 different sectors have developed. The universities have developed a very useful and well tried and well worked out process for their planning. The Australian Universities Commission has been in existence now for decades and it has served the area of tertiary education and the universities, in particular, very well. The Universities Commission has many areas of their planning and administration down to a fine art. It works like a smoothly oiled machine. The universities always have had a particular advantage in their dealings with their Commission. Because of the small number of universities there has been some direct access to the Commission, albeit an informal one on occasions, even when States were involved in their funding. Even now that direct access is not affected in any way by what is to happen. No matter what happens as a result of this Tertiary Education Commission Bill, regardless of what might happen with funding policies in the future, that situation will not change because there are so few universities. The people who are administering the universities and the people who are administering the Universities Commission know well that there exists a direct access which has been to the advantage of the universities. 
The colleges have been in a different position because they have been evolving a new system in recent years. The Commission on Advanced Education is a fairly new Commission. It has had to establish itself and find its own way, just as the Universities Commission did initially, but also it has operated with a very particular State involvement. There have been boards of advanced education which have had a direct say in planning. There have been some difficulties and some frustrations which are only matters of detail of administration but which the Government will need to look at as it applies this new Bill. Everybody in Government and Opposition will be aware of the familiar complaint- it is a well based one and one which ought to be attended to- that there seems to be in the colleges area, as against the universities area, difficulties with the decision-making machinery at times which means that things are sometimes not achieved smoothly. We would all be familiar with college administrations which have said: 'What are the responsibilities of Canberra and what are the responsibilities of the State board?' Colleges may receive approval for what would appear to be machinery and very much local matters related to their physical development and which fall within a pre-approved total academic development. Having received State approval, these colleges may suddenly find themselves frustratingly sent back to square one on their physical planning by the Canberra Commission. The Commission may well be acting properly, but the matter of where discretion lies and whether there is any purpose in that State board is one which ought to be cleared up. Now, of course, the Commission virtually becomes the council, but that is the type of detail of implementation of the Bill that we must look at carefully. 
This Bill introduces a fairly intricate bureaucracy: It is not difficult to follow for those who are familiar with the tertiary area but nevertheless a more involved total bureaucracy will be needed than was previously. Therefore the examples of difficulty that arose from the previous structure ought to be noted and attended to now. I that happens they will cause us no trouble in the future. If they are not attended to now we run the risk that the whole area of tertiary education planning may be more involved than it need be and even set back in what we could reasonably expect of it. 
The technical area has had a very large degree of flexibility in planning. It has had Limited Federal funds; it has been State funded, in the main for very good reasons. I do not think for one minute that the State governments would want to forgo the responsibility that they have in the technical area so easily as they did in the area of universities and colleges because it serves a rather different purpose. Nevertheless, with that flexibility there have been actions taken by technical colleges which have not been, I would suggest, necessarily in the interest of tertiary education and which have affected the colleges in particular. One really ought to look at this whole subject. It is good that there is flexibility, and for the technical colleges in particular it is good that they can quickly respond to community need. Nevertheless, without trying to take away that effectiveness of the technical colleges, one ought to look at a situation that arises as a consequence. 
The colleges of advanced education go through quite long and very specific processes whereby they get approval of new courses. Having gone through those processes, which may take years in the case of some courses, having made a value judgment in terms of their resources, having decided to introduce that course as against some other course, having committed resources to it, having advertised and appointed staff- they suddenly find that on 2 weeks' notice a technical college has set up a similar course- maybe not at the same level but probably to answer the same community demand. The colleges, having foregone the possibility of putting their resources into other areas, find themselves in a poor position for competition as against the technical colleges. I do not suggest that we ought to slow down or bog down technical colleges with bureaucracy but I do suggest that they ought to have brought home to them the responsibility that they have in the total post-secondary education area. They should be made to realise that what they do matters very much, not just to the colleges but also to the community which cares about what is happening in that area of education. 
I said at the beginning that the Opposition has chosen in the last couple of debates on education in this chamber to narrow the debate very much, to narrow it specifically to the technical education area. We have had an extraordinary series of contradictions and waffly sort of argument in this area. On the one hand the Opposition is very wobbly on what it thinks about the commission which is inquiring into education and training. On the other hand it says we really must attend to the technical area and put a very much larger proportion of our resources into training people for jobs, because obviously that is an area of particular need. The Opposition cannot have it both ways. It cannot argue, that we need more resources for technical education because people need to be trained for jobs on those particular occasions when it chooses to move an amendmentas it has done today- on that very particular subject, and then on other occasions- as has happened here when we have had an education debate in more general terms- criticise the Government for looking at such problems as education and training. It cannot then say that we really are overlooking, as the Opposition has charged on various occasions, the great, large, stirring and wonderful meaning of education and that we ought to be educating plumbers in music and poetry, as has also been suggested to us on previous occasions. The Opposition needs to sort itself out on that issue. It needs to sort out whether it really thinks that technical educationthat is, the training for jobs- is something that is important and something into which a very much larger proportion of our resources ought to go. If it does, I hope it will desist in other debates on education from saying that we are giving too much emphasis to the technical aspects- that is, the job training aspects- of the whole education system. 
The Government's record, I suggest, has been good in this area. For some reasons, certain groups in the education arena have chosen to tell continual untruths about the Government's policy. There would never be a month go by, I do not doubt, but the New South Wales Teachers Federation's journal has some large article about an alleged reduction in education spending by the Fraser Government. It apparently pursues the idea that if one repeats something often enough some people, the ones who read only that source of information, will believe it. The Federation believes that if it is very lucky, what it says will come true. Perhaps it believes that if the Government is abused often enough - 
I said that certain things which appear in the journal are not true. 
There are untruths, that is right. There have been articles in the New South Wales Teachers Federation's journal which have stated without any qualification that the Government has reduced education spending. There have been a large number of articles in that journal to that effect. That is not true, as  Senator Wriedt  knows very well. I was speculating why it might choose to state that untruth. I have stated this to its members' faces, so the honourable senator will not have the opportunity to disclose to them any great secret about my opinions. It is something of which they are aware. They know that I am critical of them in that direction. Nevertheless, they go ahead. It does not matter that much to them. One can only speculate on why people do that. They do it either because they really want the Government to reduce education spending or because they do not really care about their credibility with people outside their own political persuasion. That is the trap into which the Opposition is in danger of falling. I do not suggest ibr one moment that the Opposition is not telling the truth. I suggest that the Opposition is telling selective truths and is not doing justice to itself in the whole treatment of the subject. 
The Opposition must ask itself whether it can concede anything to reality. There are times when oppositions and governments can come together in a happy concert and say that something which is good has happened. Opposition senators should ask themselves whether they are pleased that something which is good for our country and for the area in which we believe has happened. The Opposition really ought to concede a little more to reality so that we can have a more constructive debate. This Government is probably very lucky that it has a Minister who genuinely cares about education and who can take debates in the spirit in which they are engaged in in this chamber. I urge upon the Opposition and those who are interested in education or who claim to be- that includes the New South Wales Teachers Federation- that in the narrowing of the whole education debate to only one area they are negating what education is supposed to be about, and what the Opposition and the other people have presented that education is all about from time to time. 
Education is about the opportunities that it can offer individuals in setting the direction of their own lives. It is about the opportunities that it offers our country in its future direction and planning. Those are the things that ought to matter. Without any doubt, government and opposition will differ on detail, but in general direction we ought to be able to reach some consensus. For that reason I suggest to the Senate that the amendment moved by the Opposition is quite unworthy of the Opposition. The amendment will be defeated in due course. The Bill which the 
Minister presented and the policy which the Minister presented are matters in which I think most people involved in tertiary education in Australia believe. I say that quite deliberately. It is a well advised and a well directed policy. We have the potential to develop properly, dispassionately, objectively, for the good of our country and for the good of education, policies which will be acceptable to all. It is not necessary that they be acceptable in their finest detail ultimately. That never happens. That would be too much for which to hope. Therefore, on the basis that the Bill is well intentioned and well directed, I commend it to the Senate. 
-I have no wish to prolong the agony unnecessarily either for the Minister for Administative Services  (Senator Withers)  or for the Senate. I just wish to make a couple of points quickly because my name was mentioned a couple of times. I appreciate the efforts that the Minister has made in relation to this matter, but I am not satisfied with the answer he has provided tonight. As the Minister is aware, I have not been satisfied with all the answers I have received in the past. I have not personally made any allegations of impropriety. I have observed- I do not believe in writing but I will make this observation in public now- only that an extraordinary series of events has taken place in this case which is difficult to explain. I had the opportunity to have discussions with the investigators after they had investigated the situation in Queensland. It is true that alternative explanations can be given for all those events, but nobody has any way of deciding which is the correct explanation. The simple fact is that this man apparently had a viable working business 4 years ago. He is now completely unable to operate that business. 
I appreciate far more the efforts of  Senator Withers  than I do those of  Mr Nixon  in this matter. It would be possible for this man to be trading and fulfilling contracts for scrap metal if he were allowed access to his property and if he were allowed access from his property to the ports. Because of the saga involving roads and bridges and all sorts of other things- it seems to me to involve the most incredible bungling at all levels of government- this man has scrap metal sitting on that property. He has very expensive and very specialised machinery sitting there which he has been unable to operate effectively for several years now. He is a self-made man. He does not have large corporate resources behind him. He has been all but broken by this process of bungling. 
The saga started back in the 1960s when an indication was given that his property might be resumed for airport extensions. After some correspondence and negotiation with the then Government he was told quite definitely in a letter that this would never happen. In early 1973- the advent of the Whitlam Governmenthe found suddenly that all the expansion process he had taken, all the investment in plant and very heavy equipment which is very difficult and expensive to move, all those decisions which were taken on the basis of an assurance by the previous Government were for nought. He was just told that his property was to be resumed. 
Let me state very briefly the reasons why I think  Mr Aufferber  has reason not to be quite so sanguine about action in the High Court. I do not have any of the correspondence with me. I have been caught a little on the hop by this matter tonight. But as I recall, there was an offer from the Commonwealth Government at one stage to resettle him on an alternative site and I think that there may also have been some offer in relation to the cost of resettlement.  (Quorum formed) 
I said when I rose to my feet that I would speak for probably 5 minutes. I think I had been speaking for 3 minutes when  Senator Cavanagh  brought my colleagues out from their offices at this hour of the night. I shall not extend my comments, in spite of the provocation I have just been offered. I was stating that an offer was made.  Mr Aufferber  wanted to negotiate in relation to the cost of transport and of transferring the business. At that point the Government withdrew its offer. One might think in retrospect that that was a foolish decision and that he should have accepted that offer because it was infinitely superior to any he has since received. Again I find some difficulty in recalling off the top of my head what were the figures of subsequent offers but I think they went from $ 1 50,000 to $ 1 25,000.  Mr Aufferber  has been offered, apparently on the basis of objective and excellent advice, 3 quite different means of compensation. In fact I believe that the land that he was offered originally is valued unofficially at something like $500,000 which gives some indication of what it would cost him to transfer his business to an appropriate corresponding site and some indication of why he would now quite rightly feel unhappy at being offered $125,000. 
Everyone is aware that  Mr Aufferber  has recourse to the courts. I would have hoped that matters such as bridges and access to ports would not have to be determined by courts but that they could be determined by Ministers of this and the previous Government on a reasonable basis.  Mr Aufferber  's ability to contest in court, indeed his access to the very documents which will determine his fate, is very much open to question. I have never suggested that the Minister or his officers have acted improperly, although I must say the question has never been resolved in my mind and it remains unresolved. I think it was quite appropriate for  Senator Bonner  to raise this matter during the adjournment debate. I repeat that I do not think the answers have been given yet. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 12.46 a.m. (Thursday). 
Pursuant to order of the Senate, I bring up the report of Estimates Committee C, together with the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings and the explanatory notes provided by the departments whose estimates the Committee considered. I move: 
That the report be printed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I present the following petition from 22 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth objection to the Metric system and request the Government to restore the Imperial system. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 2 June 1977: 
What is the estimated tonnage in the ground at Fraser Island of (a) rutile, (b) zircon, (c) ilmenite, and (d) monazite. 
One of the things that has distinguished this debate has been the evasion of the real issues by the Australian Labor Party within the Parliament, and by certain union spokespeople outside the Parliament.  Senator Wriedt  chose to pursue the theme that this legislation is necessary because of some thought of an early election on the part of the Government. I say at this stage of my speech that this is certainly not the reason I support this Bill. I was interested to read in today's  Canberra Times  a statement attributed to  Mr Wattie  Peck, Federal Secretary of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association. He launched a rather strong attack on the legislation. He said the Government's action was 'a most disgusting and cynical abuse of the parliamentary process in pursuit of the most base objectives'. I think  Mr Peck  might be sorry that he spoke those words, because they are attributable in large measure to  Mr Peck  in some of the ways he acts, but I will come to that later. He went on to say: 
Parliament has been prostituted in order to instigate a political confrontation with the trade union movement, in order to 'set up' an election late this year in the sure knowledge that the appalling state of the economy- and unemployment . . . must inevitably lead to annihilation . . . 
They are not the issues in this legislation at all. The real issues are fundamental and terribly important. They state ones relating to the whole question of our industrial life in this country and particularly to those industrial situations which arise in relation to government employees and their endeavour. I was interested in  Senator Bishop's  claims in one of his many speeches on this Bill. He said that the Government wanted to take action against every honest worker'. I suggest that honest workers have never been more exploited in this country than they are at the moment by dishonest union leaders who rise to a position of prominence on the claim that they will promote the welfare of the worker and who forget about that claim when they are elected to office. They use their considerable political clout and they hold their great power over the workers who are members of their unions to drag those workers into all sons of political situations in which they do not want to be involved. 
I was interested to receive just recently from the ACOA, courtesy of the executive of that union, something about its view on uranium mining. I understand that ACOA members who were committed by people like  Mr Peck  on that issue were never consulted for their point of view on that issue. That son of action ought to be pointed out and made relevant in this son of debate. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
When I was speaking before lunch I started to say that the basic issues involved in this Bill were profound. To divert the debate on to issues relating to an election is quite irrelevant. It is signal that the Australian Labor Party has chosen to deny a debate on the basic issues. It was disappointing that  Senator Wriedt,  as Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, could not spend more time on the Bill. I shall come back to some of the things he said. 
We are really debating the rights and responsibilities of Government employees. It is worth looking at the basic rights and responsibilities of all employees in Australia as they relate to unions and industrial action. Of necessity unions have highly developed rights in Australia. They have access to courts and they preserve the right to strike as an extreme and last resort. Union rights are entrenched and assured in Australia in a way which is virtually unique in the world. From my experience in the work force and as a member of a couple of unions and involvement in those unions I suggest that those rights are necessary. I am not one who happens to believe that unions are no longer necessary. I am convinced that unions are necessary as a balancing and important factor in the welfare of individual employees in Australia. However, I am less than impressed by the way in which certain unions avail themselves of their rights. Union leaders have a particular responsibility for the welfare of their members. That is the reason for their existence. Union leaders put it this way: They are there for the obtaining of industrial justice. That is right. However these responsibilities have been increasingly abrogated through an immoral exploitation of those rights which are ensured under our system. Leaders have attempted to usurp and deny functions of other institutions such as the courts and Parliament. 
If  Senator Mulvihill  wants to get his views into  Hansard,  I suggest that he put his name on the speakers' list. At the moment it happens to be my turn. Before lunch I was referring to the words of  Mr Peck,  the Federal Secretary of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association. Truly, in his words, one could point so often, in the activity of certain unions, to the cynical abuse of the industrial process and, on many occasions, to the pursuit of the most base objectives. When one pursues or follows what happens in the industrial arena it is interesting to note the sort of situation which can occur. We are all familiar with the situation in an industry where an offer is made to employees of a certain firm. At meetings of one union the members will consider that offer and accept it unanimously. At meetings of another union, members considering the same offer will reject it unanimously. The difference is not in the working conditions. The difference is in the organiser who presents the offer to the workers. This shows the cynical abuse and cynical exploitation of the workers which takes place through people who do not respect the powers and rights which they have. 
Of course, this Bill relates to Public Service unions and to public service employees of the Government and their unions. Members of the Public Service are not entirely in the same position as members of private enterprise. Sometimes the Government is in full competition with other organs in our community, such as with Medibank. Sometimes it is in partial competition. For example, the Australian Broadcasting Commission is in competition with private enterprise only in urban areas, but in other areas it has a monopoly. Some organs of the Government have a complete monopoly, the Post Office being one of them and the air traffic control section being another. This brings with it particular rights and responsibilities for Public Service unions. Of course, there is the right to have a monopoly of workers in an industry since the industry meets national needs, the Government engaging in that enterprise in a monopolistic fashion. This brings with it particular responsibilities, such as the responsibility to respect the special need which gives rise to that monopoly and which justifies the special rights. In some cases anything but respect is shown for that special need, sometimes something closer to contempt. 
How well we remember the air traffic controllers disputes this year and last year- the go-slow and the strike. The air traffic controllers were just a small group of people in a position of particular power. Those of us who sat in aircraft on the tarmac at Sydney Airport, in aircraft that had been standing for over an hour with their motors running because the air traffic controllers said that they must do that in Sydney, well remember that far from being some sort of exercise of justified rights, it approached something closer to sadism. At least at Brisbane the planes were allowed to sit near the terminals with their engines off even though passengers were required to board and the conditions were anything but comfortable. The activities in Sydney and Melbourne were something else. 
The air traffic controllers strike early this year which was brought on at a few hours' notice was something that showed complete contempt for the processes and the people whom they are supposed to serve as public servants. A few hours' notice meant that most people were in no position to try to get themselves out of the way of the strike. It was a financial disaster for the airlines and it was a disaster for our country and for many citizens in other ways.  Senator Wriedt  says, virtually with a shrug of the shoulders: 'Of course people are angry and frustrated when a strike is on but they realise that these sorts of things happen and they get over it. ' I think that probably one of the most unfortunate circumstances of that strike was the fact that the wife of the Japanese Prime Minister happened to be in Australia at the time and was delayed here for more than a week. From the trade situation with Japan it is clear that the Japanese are fed up with the irresponsibility of certain of our unions. T can just imagine what  Mrs Fukuda  said to her husband about Australian unions when she went home. What about all the Australian citizens who were stranded overseas for 2 weeks without any means of getting back? Many of them were penniless because they were on their way home from holidays and tourists do not usually bring their money home with them. They go overseas for the purpose of spending it. 
In his speech  Senator Wriedt  said that of course the Labor Party and the Opposition do not agree with all these strikes. It would be more impressive if the Labor Party and the Opposition said so at the time and made the proper condemnation of actions such as this which are totally irresponsible and which are meant to inflict harm on enterprises and more than inconvenience- extreme inconvenience if not financial harm- on individual Australians. For many years the postal workers have been abusing their monopoly position in that industry. 
I draw the attention of the Senate to part of the speech made by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  in the House of Representatives yesterday. The sections of the speech to which I refer appear on pages 434 and 435 of  Hansard.  The Minister incorporated in  Hansard  a list of restrictive work practices and inhibitions to economic operations at the Redfern Mail Exchange. Forty restrictive work practices were listed. The Minister said that they were not all the practices which were affecting the operation of that exchange, that it was not an exhaustive list. He went on to say: 
The overall cost is in excess of $3m - 
That is the cost of the bans and limitations- 
The arrangement was that, because of the $3.4m which this exercise is costing, with the shorter working hours there would be new rosters to remove some of the restrictive work radices and some of the uneconomic shifts at a saving of 3m. That is what the argument is all about. It was a reasonable approach, agreed to by the Postal Commission and agreed to by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, which a significant section of the union is now prepared to ignore completely. 
With the bleats we hear from the other side when we talk about arbitration and so on there is no condemnation forthcoming as there ought to be. When it suits them these workers in their privileged position completely ignore what the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission is trying to do quite legally to solve that dispute. People in Australia are justifiably angry about this dispute. Not only is the Post Office a monopoly but also the consumer pays in advance for the service it is supposed to provide. There is a saying that there are two bad types of business deals- the time when you pay in advance for something you are supposed to receive and the time when you provide something and you are paid afterwards. The consumer does not have any choice in this one. The consumer always pays in advance for a service from the Post Office. The workers are paid salaries from those payments in advance but a service is not carried out. People see millions of postal articles sitting at Redfern. It is possible for these workers to indulge in this sort of industrial blackmail only because they are in that privileged monopoly position, and they completely forgo the types of duties and responsibilities that ought to come with that privileged position. That mail is the personal property of consumers. It is a property which is held to ransom to the inconvenience and frustration of the customers- that is the members of the general public. Why did not  Senator Wriedt  have more to say on that subject? Why did he not condemn completely the highhanded and arrogant manner of those workers who will not discuss the matter in a reasonable way under the provisions about which the Opposition has had so much to say? 
Finally, the Government has certain rights and responsibilities also. It has a right to expect that employees will carry out the work that the Government is paying them to do, whether that be through a statutory corporation protected by government legislation or directly from public funds. The Government has a right to expect that those workers will perform that function which is the responsibility of the Government. It is ultimately the responsibility of the Government to make sure that our mail is delivered. It is also the Government's responsibility to ensure that government enterprises meet the public need from their generally privileged position of operation. The members of the public are the innocent people who again are being exploitedexploited because the Government has a necessary monopoly, exploited because, as a result of this, certain unions have a monopoly on the labour in those industries, and exploited without any concern for what the people have paid for services or that they could reasonably expect, having consented to that monopolistic arrangement. The members of the public are the innocent people who must be protected. 
If the Government had not introduced legislation to try to meet this situation, it would have failed in its responsibilities. It is bad enough that the members of the Australian Labor Party Opposition fail in their responsibility to criticise where union activities are arrogant and not for the welfare of employees, much less for the welfare of the Australian people. It is bad enough that certain Public Service unions in particular have exploited their position of privilege and completely ignored their responsibility to show respect for the power that they hold. The Government at least cannot evade its responsibilities. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport whether he has seen a recent Press release which states: 
Queensland Qantas director  Sir John  Egerton has been having top level talks in Canberra in an attempt to upgrade Brisbane international airport. 
This Press release attributes to Transport Department officials a certain view of  Sir John  to the effect that he was keen to have the terminal upgraded before the 1982 Commonwealth Games. Perhaps the Minister could tell me, as one who is interested in the future of this airport, whether I ought to be talking to the Minister or to 
Transport Department officials. Could he tell me also when we can expect the statement from the Minister which was promised in answer to a question I asked in the Senate 12 months ago when it was said that shortly we would have a statement from the Government on its intentions in relation to Brisbane Airport? 
Has the Minister for Science seen an article in the form of a letter from  Sir Macfarlane  Burnet in which he suggests that a large proportion of the royalties the Government will demand and receive for uranium mining should be used for research and development in the field of alternative energy resources, particularly solar energy? Is he aware that a number of suggestions have been made as to what ought to happen with the royalties from uranium mining and that  Senator Cavanagh  has a question on notice on this subject in relation to Aborigines? Is the Minister also aware of what royalties are likely to come to the Government from uranium mining and the potential capacity of the scientific establishments to utilise a major part at least of those royalties for research into alternative energy means, particularly solar energy? 
I find it difficult to rise after that plethora of irrelevance from  Senator Button.  He started with the Schools Commission, wandered through the Industries Assistance Commission and ended up with the Orgainsation for Economic Cooperation and Development. Somewhere along the line he was supposed to be debating a guarantee of loans to non-government schools very little of which we heard from him. It is clear that the Opposition really wants to debate the Schools Commission report. I am quite sure that the Government would be very happy to debate the Schools Commission report but for the pur- pose of the Senate's deliberations I remind honourable senators opposite that we are debating a Bill about which the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  stated in his second reading speech: 
The purpose of the Bill is to implement a scheme to enable the Commonwealth to act as guarantor for loans raised by non-government schools in the States to finance wholly or partially the construction of approved priority school facilities. 
That is all this Bill is about but the Opposition grasped the opportunity to continue the debate on certain items raised in the Schools Commission report which was tabled in the Senate last week. As a supporter of the Government I welcome the opportunity to enter into that debate but I also welcome the opportunity to debate what the Bill is actually about. 

 Senator Button, apparently opening the debate for the Opposition in the absence of  Senator Wriedt,  chose to take certain parts of the Schools Commission report as selectively as one could imagine and to overlook the whole context of that report of funding of schools. He drew in the very predictable sorts of points that one expects from the Opposition at the moment with some rather unpredictable terminology. In fact, the 
Opposition is trying to whip up a fury out of froth. The issue in the Schools Commission report is some $5m out of $571m. The issue, in money terms, is marginal. If one listens to the Opposition and certain other interest groups which have a very clear interest in this debate one would think that it was a major proportion of expenditure. I remind the Senate that the Minister very adequately dealt with this when he made a statement on the Schools Commission report last Thursday in which he explained that the position of schools now under the Government's federalism policy is rather different from the position of schools when the Whitlam Government started giving direct grants and taking those grants out of State grants. The 41 per cent or whatever I do not care to debate because I think the States and the people in the States know well enough to give credit where it is due. 
The Schools Commission did and still does bring down some valuable reports on needs in schools. But I query whether it is justified for the Schools Commission, the Opposition, the Australian Council of State Schools, the Australian Teachers Federation or anyone else to say that the Schools Commission has lost its independence because the Government spelled out some financial guidelines completely in line with a policy which the Government announced years ago in relation to the financing of schools. The fact that the Schools Commission could bring down the report that it did shows that it has not lost its independence. The report dwells at quite some length on that marginal $Sm. It is quite critical and it raises certain important issues which I think we ought to debate in this Parliament and which  Senator Button  touched on in a selective way this evening. It raises the issue of whether the Schools Commission's independence has been in any way lessened because of the guidelines given to it by the Government. 
I do not think anybody should be very surprised that the Government has indicated to the Schools Commission that the Government would like to pursue the Government's policy in relation to schools, a policy long since announced and which, in fact, receives a lot of support in the Schools Commission report of 1976. 
What did the Government do? It said to the Schools Commission: 'We are going to pursue our policy that 20 per cent of the cost of educating a child in a government school will be applied to the cost of educating a child in a nongovernment school. We are going to do it this year. These are the figures that are available. This is what it means in relation to category 1 and category 2 schools so far as we, the Government, are concerned. The total amount of money which the Government will make available in the next financial year is $57 lm. Certain transfers will be necessary if we are not going to pursue exactly the same method of financing as was pursued in the previous financial year. We, the Government, make some suggestions as to where that money ought to come from'. That is what the guidelines are. Immediately there is a hue and cry and all sorts of extraordinary statements are made about the relevance of that marginal amount of money to the total development of education in Australia. 
As I have said, the amount of money is marginal. If honourable senators look at the Schools Commission report they will find that the differences are very small indeed. Where the Government suggested that $4m ought to come from Special Projects, the Schools Commission, after much wringing of hands in its introductory section discovers that $3.5m can well come from that section. So, we are quibbling about $500,000 in that instance. Then the Schools Commission report says that it will not make some recommendations in relation to a further $5m out of $57 1 m. It is not very convincing when the Opposition uses that argument and tries to claim that the Government is therefore overturning a needs funding of education, overturning education policies in Australia. As I said before, the Minister has pointed out that the States are in a very much superior position under the Fraser Government than that during the term of the Whitlam Government with regard to making their own contribution and some determination of their own priorities in their spending on education in government schools. 
Let us not forget that the first responsibility for the funding of primary and secondary government schools in Australia lies with the States. Most of the States have recognised that responsibility and most of them have been steadily lifting their percentage of expenditure on schools in both the recurrent and capital expenditure categories. There are some differences between the States and these are interesting because the State Labor governments do not come out of it very well when we look at a comparative rate of increase between the States. I divert, if I may, for a couple of minutes to point out that I grew up in a State under a Labor government which had been in office for years and which expected that it would be in office for the lifetime of all its members and, probably, of the children of all its members. But a split in the Labor Party settled that. Queensland had the worst education system in Australia under a Labor government which expected that it was never going to be turned out of power. We had three government high schools in the city of Brisbane with a population in excess of 500,000. 
I discount the domestic science high school and the technical high school,  Senator Georges,  because I did not see them as real choices. The change that took place in Queensland from 1957 onwards occurred because a State Liberal-Country Party government pursued a different policy. The Labor Party cannot claim that it is the Party of education. It cannot claim that at all. Certainly, under the Whitlam Government the Schools Commission was established and much progress was made. 
Just recently I and some others conducted an exercise through a number of States after the Minister announced his guidelines and discussed with those who were interested in the parent, teacher and other areas what they thought of the Government's guidelines. I should have thought, after the enormous outpouring of funds under the Whitlam Government and its continuation under the Fraser Government, that there might have been some improvement in the standards of schools in Australia. I sought to discuss just what sort of improvement the consumers and the practitioners thought had occurred. Whilst it was not denied that it was an improvement, there was some vague indication that because of this marginal $5m everything would be changed. I asked these people: 'All right, we accept the needs principle; we accept that there is such a thing as a disadvantaged school. Would you care to define a disadvantaged school for me'? They did not care to define a disadvantaged school. I fear that we are being pushed, by an education establishment which is as broad as it is strong, into a situation in which any school which is not as well off in some terms or other- goodness knows which terms- as a category 1 school, is termed a disadvantaged school because it is disadvantaged in relation to the very best school. I ask Opposition senators whether they would like to put down the criteria of a disadvantaged school? I have my own ideas of what constitutes a disadvantaged school in Australia at the moment. I think there are areas of disadvantage; but I do not think that disadvantage calls for the same rate of increase of expenditure of funds at Federal and State level, as Opposition senators seem to indicate.  Senator Georges  shakes his head and groans. He does that on occasions. We are used to him doing that. There is no point, in present day Australia, in just talking about a never ending demand for funds for education, an open ended policy, and endless rate of increase, without some justification in terms of what is the standard of education in Australia today, what is the standard of our schools today and what effect that has on the standard of education. 

 Senator Button opened up this line of debate. He referred to the Schools Commission report. I reiterate that it is extraordinary that the Schools Commission could have gone to the lengths it did and used the strong words it did without attempting to reconcile those early opinionsopinions which have been taken up so gleefully by the Opposition-with the facts which the Schools Commission itself presents later in its report. I am intrigued by one statement in this report, and it is one that  Senator Button  chose to bring up. He was talking about our 'sneaky addition' to the cause of category 1 and category 2 schools. He went on from there to talk about our priorities and what we might be doing- as indeed the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  did last Thursday- about the relationship between government and nongovernment schools. I refer to the Schools Commission report and read a very intriguing statement. Paragraph 1. 10 states: 
The Act requires the Commission when writing reports to undertake consultation with all interested parties. Prescriptive guidelines not only pre-empt the nature of the Commission's advice but threaten the consultation and decisionmaking process by which competing needs and priorities, within and between government and non-government sectors, can be reconciled. 
First of all, I would have thought that those who are interested in education are interested in education not in terms of the facilities of government and non-government schools but in terms of what is provided for children, whether they attend a government school or a nongovernment school. The Schools Commission itself in its report last year pointed out the growing disparity between the sources of funds for government and non-government schools. It indicated that some action would be necessary to redress the imbalance; that it would not come about naturally because the trends, as they were then established, were very much against the non-government schools and their resources and their standards, one presumes, must decline compared with government schools, given the previous situation. That surely would lead to a rather divisive debate. 
Every member of this Parliament has been subjected to questions from members of the electorate. They have said: 'As taxpayers we ask: Why cannot the Government establish some basic financing for all students, whether they go to government or non-government schools?' Parents of children at non-government schools, in my experience, overwhelmingly accept that they must make a contribution towards the cost of their child's education because they choose something different. But they do not accept that the independent schools system increasingly was becoming available only to the wealthy in our community, whereas previously it was available throughout our community and was available to serve a purpose to all members of our community. It was because of that disparity that the Schools Commission itself outlined that nonstate education was available only to the wealthy. The Schools Commission talks about divisive policies. I would have thought that that was far more divisive than a policy which established a base rate of payment per capita or per student for all students, whether they be at government or non-government schools. 

 Senator Button said that the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  protests too much. He said that we want to indulge in a private fantasy of more money for wealthy private schools. That, I suggest, is a fantasy which the Opposition is attempting to foist on the Australian public. It is never the independent schools; it is never the private schools. It is always the wealthy private schools. 

 - Senator Georges chooses to interject over and over again. That is probably a little less forgiveable than  Senator Walsh  interjecting, because  Senator Walsh  does not realise the importance of the independent schools system in Queensland.  Senator Georges  ought to understand it.  Senator Georges,  as a senator from Queensland, ought to be aware that in the last three years 21 Catholic boarding schools in Queensland have had to close down because of lack of funds. They were boarding schools in country areas.  Senator Georges  ought to be aware of the importance of the non-government schools sector to the education of children in the many isolated areas of Queensland. He ought to be aware that the closure of 21 boarding schools in three years in Queensland is an educational catastrophe. No government, State or Federal, should stand by and watch that happen. If they choose to stand by and watch it happen, they know that they do it at the cost of an overwhelmingly larger injection of government funds into government schools to try to meet the imbalance that that sort of change in our educational patterns in Queensland must bring about. The imbalance must be met in the government sector. It is better that schools which are established with staff who are motivated and with parents who want to send their children to the nearest possible school be available to all students. It is indeed an Opposition fantasy that all private schools are wealthy, because all the evidence shows the contrary. 
The Bill seeks to give independent schools, non-government schools, a guarantee of loan so that they can proceed with certain educational projects and certain expansionary projects. I would have thought that the Australian people accept- I believe that they do- the importance of the alternative system of education in Australia and also that there is a responsibility on government 's State and Federal, to provide a minimum level of funding, which is all the Government has sought to do. There is great difficulty in expansion in the private sector and there is great need as the patterns of population and trends of population in Australia vary so much. The whole schools system- government and nongovernmentought to be able to plan. The great difficulty of the non-government sector has been in establishing in new areas of need. I believe it is important that the non-government system have that opportunity of establishment if that is what it chooses. I point out in passing that the Minister did mention that not all independent schools are backed by a systemic system which enables them to draw funds from other sections of that system in order to establish new schools. The alternative system is important. It is important that we keep people who are motivated in a very particular way towards education. It is important that they be able to establish those systems with this very particular motivation in new areas, just as it is important that we maintain the old areas where the need still exists but where the system is falling apart for lack of government funding and support. 
It is important to the government schools sector that it has a reasonable basis of competition in the education system. The independent schools system is not necessarily the most innovative. In fact, certain sections of the independent schools system are noted for being rather more traditional in their attitude towards education. But its attitude towards other thingsnot schoolroom education, but standards and citizenship training- is indeed different. As long as parents are chosing that alternative system of education in substantial numbers, it is clear that there is a substantial proportion of the Australian public which believes that competition is important for what it means in educational and personal terms. It provides also, of course, a supplementation of need. The Government has to establish schools in new areas. It can assist the establishment of non-government schools at a much lower cost than it can establish new government schools in areas of extreme need. In those areas where population is growing rapidly and where the pressure of new patterns of population- particularly of young families- is felt most strongly, certainly one ought to be thankful that the non-government schools sector wants to move in and thereby to assist in relieving some of that pressure. This is not its reason, but it is a fact that it wants to move in. The fact is that one of the results of it wanting to move in will be to relieve some of the pressure on the government system. 
We ought to welcome also the true educational involvement of the community that comes from those schools. We have had debates in the Senate on parental and community involvement in schools. We get a good example of this in many of the non-government schools, although not all of them. Some of them are quite authoritarian but a number of them do very successfully involve the community, the parents and the students of the schools in the educational and community needs of their own areas. 
The divisiveness of this debate is not because the Government has moved to support a necessary area of education. The divisiveness of the debate is not because the Government is guaranteeing loans by non-government schools. The divisiveness is brought on by those who for their own reasons, whether political or personal, want to attack the proposal to support the nongovernment schools sector, and many people involved in that debate do not want to see a nongovernment school sector. Some people, I believe, are genuinely concerned about the government schools sector and are a little ill-advised and uninformed on what pertains in the nongovernment sector because they see only that which is closest to them and that which they know best. They need to look at the overall picture. They need to recognise, as I believe the Australian community overwhelmingly does, that the non-government school sector plays a critical role in the educational and social development of our nation and as such it is surely not unreasonable that this Bill ought to provide guarantees for a maximum of $ 10m a year for non-government school expansion. 
Does the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry recall that last Thursday, 8 September 1977 he tabled in the Senate the Pig Industry Research Committee's reports for the years ended 30 June 1974, 30 June 1975 and 30 June 1976. 1 draw his attention to the fact that some questions have been placed on the Notice Paper in relation to these reports. In view of the requirement of the Pig Industry Research Act that the Pig Industry Research Committee report annually to the Minister as soon as practicable after 30 June and that then the Minister cause the report to be laid before each House of Parliament, I ask whether he has received the Committee's report for 1976-77? When does he expect that the most recently due report will be tabled in the Senate? 
Has the Minister for Education seen an article in the  Sydney Morning Herald  today by Sarah Monks, the education reporter for that newspaper, claiming that there is a financial crisis in child and adult migrant education services in New South Wales and that it has been caused by cuts in Federal Government funds? Is this allegation accurate? What are the comparative levels of Commonwealth funding for child and adult migrant education under the Fraser Government and under the former Whitlam Government? 
Is the Minister for Education aware of radio reports this morning that the staff association of the colleges of advanced education plans to mount a campaign to force the Government to abandon the present system of funding education on a rolling triennium basis with yearly reviews? Can the Minister say whether the present system is causing any uncertainty in the planning or delivery of education? Is it his intention, or that of the Tertiary Education Commission, to restore annual funding for colleges of advanced education? 
Has the Minister for Education seen the September-October edition of the Queensland  P. &amp; C. Guide  which in its editorial claims that the Government has moved against children in State schools with a cynicism that must shock all thinking people in Australia? Can the Minister tell me whether the claim in the editorial is correct that the net result of the nonindexing of funds is that schools will be worse off this year and State schools particularly will be the recipients of massive cuts unless the State governments can be induced to pick up the shortfall? Is it also true, as claimed in the editorial, that what is not commonly known is that Australian schools generally and Queensland schools in particular are far below acceptable minimum standards and the funds presently being spent on schools will not even maintain the existing standards? 
-Prior to the suspension of the sitting we were debating an urgency motion moved by the Opposition on the subject of the social and economic implications of youth unemployment. The  speaker  immediately prior to the suspension of the sitting was  Senator Melzer.  I must say that I found  Senator Melzer's  speech to be possibly the most interesting of all the Opposition speeches. She actually made a general statement of case in relation to the matter of urgency before us. All other Opposition speeches were directed solely to the Cunningham by-election. As such there really is not much to reply to in those speeches. That is a pity because the subject itself is an interesting one and a very urgent and important one. The solution of it has been advanced in no way by the Opposition in this debate. 
A number of people have turned their attention to the problem of youth unemployment in recent times. I would like to quote briefly from a couple of articles in the newspapers of the last few days by people who ought to know a little bit about the subject. I refer firstly to an article in the  Canberra Times  of 10 October by  Dr Richard  Campbell, who in a senior lecturer and academic assistant at the Australian National University. In that article he said: 
One thing is clean Australia is moving towards a situation in which our society simply will not have jobs for much of its under-20 population. That is, the current pool of unemployed school leavers, I suggest, will prove to be not a temporary phenomenon but a manifestation of a structural change. 
In today's  Canberra Times  there was a report on a speech given by  Dr Brian  Scott.  Senator Melzer  quoted part of his speech, but she quoted only the opening part. I would like to quote some further statements made by  Dr Scott  on the subject. He said: 
Unemployment among the young is a significant problem today in most countries of the Western world. 

 Senator Baume, in particular, made that point in his speech. He pointed out that it is not an Australian phenomenon but a general problem in the Western world that many countries are having to face and grapple with, countries with varying types of government and very different economic situations. 
The article states further: 
Speaking on 'The World Scene in 1990',  Dr Scott  said it was a first priority to see Australia's economy 'back on the rails' and stay there. 
Until this happens it's difficult to be confident about the prospects for the 1980s', he said. 
Of course, that has been the message of the Fraser Government. It has stated that after the three years of disastrous economic mismanagement by the Whitlam Government, it is essential to get the economy under control- back on the rails, as  Dr Scott  put it- so that we can meet the growing challenges in our community and start to move forward. Of course, the Government has not been totally inhibited by the mess it inherited from the Whitlam Government. It has done many things. It has certainly recognised the urgency of the problem of youth unemployment. In that connection I would like to outline to the Senate a number of things that the Government has either taken up from the Labor Government and advanced or introduced itself. 
In the general area of youth employment programs, the current Budget provides $ 102.7m for training, which is a 33 per cent increase. That indicates that the Government places very high priority on this area. It has increased its expenditure by one third in this area, whereas in other areas it has found it necessary for the purposes of overall fiscal management to cut back on expenditure. Obviously the matter of youth unemployment is one of the highest priority with the Fraser Government. 
I would like to mention briefly some of the programs that the Government is funding and to indicate the sort of funding that it is giving to them. I refer firstly to the National Employment and Training scheme. It is a program which was set up under the Whitlam Government and extended and supported by the Fraser Government. It provides employment for a number of categories of people, including those who are threatened with losing their jobs and those who lack employable skills. The second category is one that covers many people who are in the youth unemployment situation. Additionally a special rate of subsidy is available for employers who train young people of between 15 and 19 years of age who have left full time education for at least six months in the last 12 months, who have been unemployed for at least six months in the last 12 months and who are registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service. Thus the Government is trying to give those youngsters who are having genuine difficulty in finding jobs the sort of training that will fit them for the jobs that are available. In the current financial year the Government has allotted $54.3m for vocational training under the NEAT scheme, which contrasts with the $3 1.6m provided last year. In 1976-77 40,000 people were assisted. As at the end of September 1977 25,544 were in training. It is an extensive program. 
It has another aspect, which is called the special assistance program under the NEAT scheme. This relates to some of the things that  Senator Melzer  was talking about. She had quite a bit to say about apprentices. This program relates to the situation where an apprentice's employment is in jeopardy as a result of liquidity problems or a shortage of available work faced by the employer because of the general economic situation. NEAT in-plant training assistance may be offered to an employer to enable him to retain the apprentice. This form of assistance may also apply where an apprentice's indenture is transferred to an employer who is better situated to take on him or her. In other words, the Government is trying to prevent the loss from apprenticeship of young apprentices who want to continue with their apprenticeships but who cannot because their employers are experiencing economic difficulties. 
A further apprenticeship support program is the Commonwealth Rebate Apprenticeship Full-time Training scheme, or CRAFT scheme.  Senator Baume  also mentioned this program. It is very important in the apprenticeship area. It provides tax free rebates to employers for apprentices released to attend or study a trade for State-authorised full time basic technical education courses and for apprentices undertaking approved full time off-the-job training. Certain allowances are paid. I shall quote the figures to show the sort of money that is involved in this regard. Currently $42.2m is being provided. In 1976-77 apprenticeship intakes rose by 9 per cent, which gives some indication of the success of that program in assisting employers who were dismayed by the sort of wages that they had to pay to apprentices in recent years and who felt that that, combined with the time apprentices need to take off for their studies, meant that they were just not an economic proposition for the employers. That has been a very positive move by the Government- clearly it has been a successful one- to help the employment of young people as apprentices. 
Another program is the Special Youth Employment Training Program, which is open only to those who have left school in the last year, who are under 25 years of age and who have been unemployed for more than 12 months. It provides a $65 a week subsidy, which is a very real one and which is available again in an area in which people are worried about paying high wages to untrained and inexperienced people. An amount of $ 18m is to be spent this year under this program. A review of the program in October of this year showed that 70 per cent of the youths who have gone through it have established themselves successfully in the work force, proving that with proper training that is directed towards those who are motivated to work and geared to the work place it is possible for these young people to find jobs and to succeed in the work force. 
The Community Youth Support Scheme is one that is very well known by now. It provides financial assistance to community groups and recognised youth organisations for supportive programs and services to improve the ability of young people to find employment and to help young unemployed persons to maintain a sense of direction and purpose. In the current financial year the Government has allocated $4m to this scheme, which represents an increase on last year's allocation which was $0.6 million. Last year it was a new program that was experimental. It has proved to be successful. The Government has therefore decided to increase sevenfold the sum of money that it will spend on that scheme. 
In February of this year the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  and the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  together announced grants totalling $ 1 . 5m for 1 977 for the development and conduct of courses specially designed for the young unemployed who have educational qualifications that are low and inadequate for today's labour market conditions. Wehave had many debates in this chamber on education and in a number of them the subject of literacy and numeracy amongst school leavers has been raised. It is too soon for us to say whether those standards are lower than they used to be, but without doubt the lack of skills in those two areas has been a major barrier to the employment of young people. The Government recognised that that was a problem with employers. Employers expect their employees to be able to read and write English and perform arithmetical calculations. The Government has made available to young people who are motivated to work a program that will enable them to master basic skills and gain employment. Of course it is a new program. There was no expenditure for it last year, but this year a total of $ 1.5m will be spent. Those are some of the notable programs that the Government has aimed at solving the problem of youth unemployment. 
The Government has recognised that there is a very real problem and a very urgent one. It is a pity that Labor in government did not recognise it a little better itself. I should like to quote briefly a couple of extracts from the Budget Speech of the first Labor Treasurer on 21 August 1973 which show the way that the Labor Government misread the situation. He said: 
The Labour market has reflected this resurgence - 
The resurgence in economic activity- 
Unemployment has receded markedly, job opportunities have broadened and the work force has grown rapidly. 
For the year ahead, expansionary forces are powerful and likely to remain so. Personal incomes will continue buoyant and keep up consumer spending. 
On the subject of tariffs he said: 
When the year began we expected imports to increase by some$800m or 20 per cent in 1973-74; the decision to cut tariffs by one-quarter will add further to that increase. We can well afford a strong expansion in imports. By taking some pressure off domestic productive capacity, that will help to ease inflationary strains. 
The Labor Government was told at the time it announced those across-the-board tariff cuts that they would be a disaster; that if it wanted to cut tariffs it should have done so selectively. Without a doubt, the result of the across-the-board cuts was an increase and a move towards really deep seated unemployment in certain areas of the work force. Quite a lot of statistics have been cited this evening. I have only a couple of minutes, so I can cite briefly only figures for the increase in unemployment that occurred under the Labor Government. A very simple example is in the area of youth unemployment, that is, unemployment among those under 2 1 years of age. When Labor came to office they numbered 80,395. When Labor left office they numbered 152,543, an increase of 100 per cent. There were enormous increases in unemployment during 1974 and 1975 when the Budget of  Mr Crean  was having its effect. From August 1974 the rate of increase moved from 50 per cent to 100 per cent to 150 per cent up to 250 per cent in December 1 974. By March 1975 it was in the 300 per cent range increase over the comparable rate of unemployment for March 1973. From March to July 1975 the rate of increase for each month was 300 per cent above the unemployment rate for the corresponding month of 1973, the first year of the Labor Government, a year when it was experiencing some of the benefits of the previous Liberal-National Country Party Government. From August 1975 the picture became steadily worse. Compared with August 1973 the increase was 355 per cent, for September 380 per cent, for October 390 per cent, and for November-December a small drop to 350 per cent. That was the record of Labor in office, its general position in relation to unemployment and particularly in relation to young unemployment. Many things have been advanced as factors which caused that situation, but without a doubt the economic policies of the Labor Government from its inception, and specifically from the time of the Crean Budget, were massive forces moving this country into a situation, it seems, of chronic high unemployment and a situation which will take some time yet to solve. We have spent several hours on the debate of this urgency motion. I think it is important that we resolve the issue. Therefore I move: 
That the question be now put. 
-I bring up the report from Estimates Committee C on the particulars of proposed expenditure for the year 1977-78, together with the  Hansard  report of the Committee 's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report, excluding the appendix, be printed. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Is the Government aware of the effect on Datsun motor dealers of the Industries Assistance Commission's recommendation about the cutting of Datsun 's quota of fully imported passenger vehicles by 30 per cent? Is the Government aware that, following the Government's agreement that Nissan manufacture in Australia, Datsun dealers were required to and did expand their investment and facilities for the sale and service of Datsun vehicles and that fully imported passenger cars in a volume at least equal to that previously enjoyed are essential to enable them to service their investment, to remain viable and to support Nissan by taking and selling increasing numbers of the less profitable locally manufactured vehicles? Is the Government prepared to accept representations from those experiencing difficulties as a result of this recommendation, which would penalise Nissan, which is investing many millions of dollars in this country, and would favour companies which have chosen to adhere solely to the import of built-up passenger cars with no contribution to the employment of Australians in the manufacturing segment of our industry? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Has the Minister seen in the 12 October edition of  Education,  the journal of the New South Wales Teachers Federation, an illustration of Idi Amin with the caption: 'Idi Amin couldn't make an atom bomb with our uranium if we left it in the ground '? Is there any possibility of Australia selling its uranium to Uganda? 
-I seek leave to table additional information received by Estimates Committee C. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Has he seen the editorial in the 12 October edition of  Education,  the journal of the New South Wales Teachers Federation? Did he see that that editorial referring to the State school system, contained the following words:   . . we only cater for 80% of the nation's educational needs, including the wogs and abbos and all the other ethnic rubbish . . . 
Is the Minister aware whether the Commissioner for Community Relations is investigating that statement in the editorial of the journal of the New South Wales Teachers Federation? Is the Commissioner concerned about the fact that such insulting and degrading terms have been used in relation to our indigenous people and our migrants? What can the Minister tell us about that editorial? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 15 September 1977: 
In view of the requirement of the Pie Industry Research Act 1971 that the Plg Industry Research Committee report annually to the Minister as soon as practicable after 30 June, the Minister to then cause the report to be laid before each House of the Parliament: (a) why was the report for the year ended 30 June 1976 not tabled in the Senate until 8 September 1977; (b) when was the report submitted to the Minister by the Committee; and (c) when did the AuditorGeneral provide his certification of the operation of the Pig Industry Trust Account for 1 975-76. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 15 September 1977: 
In view of the requirement of the Pie Industry Research Act 1971 that the Plg Industry Research Committee report annually to the Minister as soon as practicable after 30 June, the Minister to then cause the report to be laid before each House of the Parliament: (a) why was the report for the year ended 30 June 1975 not tabled in the Senate until 8 September 1977; (b) when was the report submitted to the Minister by the Committee; and (c) when did the AuditorGeneral provide his certification of the operation of the Pig Industry Trust Account for 1974-75. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 15 September 1977: 
In view of the requirement of the Pie Industry Research Act 1971 that the Pig Industry Research Committee report annually to the Minister as soon as practicable after 30 June, the Minister to then cause the report to be laid before each House of the Parliament; (a) why was the report for year ended 30 June 1974 not tabled in the Senate until 8 September 1977; (b) when was the report submitted to the Minister by the Committee; and (c) when did the AuditorGeneral provide his certification of the operation of the Pig Industry Trust Account for 1 973-74. 
I wish to speak very briefly to the motion. I find it a matter of great irony that it should have been moved by  Senator Georges.  I think  Senator McLaren,  in an attempt to justify what he did, in fact vindicated your ruling,  Mr President,  and the stand that the Government has taken. What he has said, in the whole of the tirade that we have just listened to, is not that the GovernorGeneral did not do his duty but that he did not do the will of the Australian Labor Party when it imagined itself to be in government and tried to govern without Parliament.  Senator McLaren  himself referred to the Australian Parliamentary Labor Party, its actions and its numbers in the other place, as a vindication of what was done. 
It is a matter of irony that  Senator McLaren  should invoke Standing Order 418 to support what  Senator Georges  has done.  Senator Georges  has been wont to stand up here, when Standing Order 418 has been invoked in regard to offensive words used against State Houses of Parliament, and to quote from the  Hansard  of those parliaments to show that they do not accord the same respect in return. It is a matter of opinion whether those parliaments should or should not do so, but I suggest that Standing Order 418, in terms of all the opinions that  Senator Georges  has ever put on record in relation to it, is just not relevant in this case. 
-Indeed it does not. All that  Senator McLaren  referred to were some criticisms that were made of governments in this and the other place. People say things about governments, whether they are Australian Labor Party, Liberal Party or National Country Party governments, that are accepted under our Standing Orders, and certainly not precluded under Standing Orders 4 1 7 and 4 1 8. 

 Senator McLaren compounded his sin by suggesting that the Governor-General did something wrong in not seeing the  Speaker  before Parliament was dissolved. That is a very old debate which has been gone over many times in this chamber. It was suggested by earlier speakers that legal opinion supported the point of view of the Australian Labor Party on this and it is a fact that some legal opinion does do so. However, the overwhelming majority of legal opinion does not. That does not finally prove anything. All that it proves is that there is an ongoing political debate in which some legal people are involved as to the actual exercise of certain powers which are apparently, under the Constitution, available to the Governor-General. 
We are accustomed in debates in this place on the powers under the Constitution, and the actions of the Governor-General whoever he or she may be, in the exercise of that power, but it is another thing to suggest as  Senator McLaren  has suggested, that the Governor-General has not done his duty. The only justification he has offered is that the Governor-General did not do what in the political opinion of the honourable senator and his parliamentary colleagues he should have done.  Senator McLaren's  conduct under those circumstances was such that it should call attention to the Standing Orders. 

 Mr President, since you have occupied the Chair you have been very tolerant in regard to certain things that have happened here, and in particular during this debate. You have recognised that there are political implications in a debate relating to the Governor-General and have allowed a political debate to take place so long as it was not a personal debate directed to the conduct of the Governor-General and as to whether he had done his duty. Whether other things were being proposed, should he be agreeable, is something else again and as a member of the Government I rise to support your ruling in regard to the motion of  Senator Georges. 
I rise to speak briefly, appreciating the sort of constraints that exist in the Senate at the moment on debate and time. We have heard some extraordinary speeches here today. I cannot rebut, nor do I wish to rebut, all of the things that have been said, but we heard a speech just a little while ago which, as a Queenslander, I felt in good conscience I could not let pass without comment. The history of Queensland 's becoming recently a mendicant State is long and involved, encompassing as it does the whole area of government finance, as I am sure  Senator AcAuliffe  would appreciate. It is one which he did not attempt to meet but I, along with many other Queenslanders, become very weary of the implication that somehow or other we are being done a great favour when we receive a Commonwealth grant. 
The facts and figures show that Queensland, as one of the States of the Commonwealth, more than pays its way, in its own way. The history of its becoming a mendicant State is long and involved and not one that I intend to canvass in the Senate today; it is another subject altogether. But the recent and current history of Queensland's role and participation in the development of this nation is clear and is one of which we are proud. I resent an honourable senator from another State implying that Queensland should not be a mendicant State because it has produced a State budget that has not increased taxes. In this chamber, on many occasions during this session,  Senator Carrick,  the Minister who assists the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs, has directed attention to the fact that no State has, in its current budget, increased taxes. That includes aU of the mendicant States, plus the larger States of New South Wales and Victoria. 

 Senator Carrick has, on a number of occasions, taken credit on behalf of the Commonwealth Government for that fact, and indeed I think that is where the credit does lie in relation to this particular issue. The States have been able to avoid increasing their own taxes because they have enjoyed a very large and ready share of Commonwealth income tax revenue. That has applied to aU States, and not least to Victoria. When the State budget of Victoria came down we had banner headlines certainly in aU of the Victorian newspapers, and large headlines in other newspapers, on the proud boast of the Victorian Government that it did not need to increase taxes. So, in that sense, Queensland was not out of step with any other State. 
Certainly the inference that Queensland is some sort of a sponging State just cannot be supported. I would like to place on record just once again the contribution that Queensland makes to this nation, specifically in terms of export earnings. In the last 1 S years Queensland, in common with Western Australia, has seen an enormous expansion of mining industries in particular and primary industries m general. Some of our primary industries have, like those in other States, experienced problems. The problem in the wool industry began some years ago, and in the beef industry more recently because that industry is geared to the export market and was expanded in expectation that a large export market would continue to exist. We are not on our own there, but it is something which has affected us in particular. We have had some worries recently in relation to sugar, but they appear to have been satisfactorily concluded. But without a doubt, what Queensland has contributed to this nation in export earnings, specifically in its mining industries, has been outstanding. 
I draw the attention of the Senate to some figures quoted by my colleague  Senator Collard  in his speech to the Senate on 25 February 1976. It is possible that now there are more up to date figures, but I do not expect that they would differ much in terms of comparative variations as between States. These figures, as I said, were quoted in a speech made in 1976. Since then our sugar export earnings have not declined, although they were recently under threat; our beef export earnings have increased to some small extent; our mining export earnings have not varied very much- there might have been a small variation in copper, which would have been at least offset by the expansion in our coal exports. I put those observations on record as some sort of balancing factor which might account for any discrepancy between the situation now and the figures quoted by  Senator Collard  which were the most recent figures he was able to obtain last year. I think that the comparative situation has not varied. I entered this debate on short notice. I did so because I am angered by some of the nonsense which has been said in this debate on a Bill in relation to Queensland.  Senator Collard  stated: 
The figures for the year 1972-73-the latest figures that I was able to obtain-show that total Australian exports were $6,2 14m while total imports were $4, 12 1 m, leaving a surplus of $2,093m. Of that Queensland's exports were $ 1,306m, with imports of $3 lim, leaving a Queensland surplus of $994m, which was 47.5 per cent of the national surplus. 
-Senator Georges interjects and asks: 'How much for sugar'. He knows very well that on about 30 seconds notice I do not have those figures in front of me. He, as a  Senator for  Queensland, will realise if he casts his mind back to 1972-73 that in that financial year rnining was a major sector, at it remains. In that period beef would have been a considerable sector; it still is a considerable sector in terms of Australia's total export earnings. That might not give much joy to our beef producers because they are not getting much per head of cattle, but the total value of export earnings has not declined. As I was saying, Queensland's surplus represented 47.S per cent of the nation's surplus in that period.  Senator Collard  continued: 
For the same period Victoria's exports were $l,495m, with imports of $ 1,473m, leaving a surplus of $22m or 1.08 per cent of the national surplus. 
I did indeed resent a Victorian senator preaching to me as a Queensland senator about Queensland's economy and about what we should and should not be doing when our State's contribution to the nation 's economic health is so overwhelmingly far ahead of the contribution of bis State.  Senator Collard  continued: 
New South Wales exports were $ 1,421m, with imports of Sl,810m, leaving a deficit of $389m, which means that New South Wales provided a debit of 1 8.59 per cent in Australia 's national surplus. 
I appeal for support from  Senator Georges  on behalf of our State. He knows as well as I do that in debates on tariffs one of the difficulties which he had when he was in government and which I have in government is that of explaining to the people of Queensland the prices that they have to pay for items which would be more cheaply imported, but tariffs protect the jobs of people in Melbourne and Sydney. We might accept that as a national objective- we might accept that as a national requirement- but give credit where it is due. In terms of the overall existence of this country Queensland, as one of the smaller States -something which honourable senators from the larger States are so fond of sneering at- more than makes its contribution.  Senator Collard  in his speech drew a parallel between Queensland and Western Australia, the other major exporting State in the Commonwealth. He snowed that in the same period the exports for that State were $l,154m, its imports were $227m, leaving a surplus of $927m or 44.29 per cent of the national surplus. I remind the Senate that Queensland's share of the national surplus was 47.S per cent. So between them those two States- both mendicant States - 
I am sorry, Western Australia certainly was a mendicant State originally. But I am referring honourable senators to the figures for 1972-73, the most recent available figures in February last year. I find it a little tedious that  Senator Georges  and  Senator McAuliffe  should interject on my speech. 
Thank you,  Senator McAuliffe.  I always appreciate how you help me to make my speech; you know that. Honourable senators opposite will be aware that the history of the economy of Queensland which led to its becoming a mendicant State largely had its roots in the war years and in the years when the Labor Party was in government. I am not saying that the State Labor government did the wrong thing in those terms in those years. But unfortunately the history of Queensland shows that the decisions which were made then by a State government, believing it was acting in the national interest, brought our State to a point where it was forced to become a mendicant State. One would hope that it will be in the short term. Nevertheless, it is a very involved story and that is only part of it. 
I want to move on to the figures for a couple of other States because there are six States in this Commonwealth. The figures quoted by  Senator Collard  in 1976 demonstrate some other aspects in relation to the export surplus per head of population in 1972-73. He stated: 
The average for Australia was $157.73; the average for Victoria was $6.29; New South Wales . . . lost $82.12 per head of population; whereas in Queensland the earnings were $510.71 and in Western Australia they were $854.90 ... the figure for South Australia was $265.65, for Tasmania $435.15, and for the Northern Territory $470.08. 

 Senator Collard continued: 
Honourable senators should not forget that that compares, as I said previously, with Victoria's very low $6.29 and New South Wales ' abysmal deficit of $82. 12. 
This is not the first time I have been virtually forced, at short notice, to get to my feet in this 
Senate and do what I must do as a senator for Queensland, that is, set the record straight. I say just one other thing because we heard some general comment on Queensland. In the past few years Queenslanders have become almost used to the most extraordinary reporting on our State in the southern Press. 

 - Senator, please for once let me finish a sentence. You might even be interested in what I have to say. Constantly in the southern Press we have seen a most extraordinary portrayal of Queensland. One would wonder why anyone would live there if one believed the picture that was painted. I remember saying,  Senator Georges,  on a State-wide television program on the subject some 12 months ago: 'They are all laughing at us south of the border' I hope  Senator Georges  watched it-'The great danger of the sort of nonsense that has been published in the Press about Queensland is that Queenslanders will wipe aside the Press to such an extent that they will never take seriously any criticisms that they read of their State '. 
I do not claim that the State Government or the State is perfect, but Queensland has a lot of things going for it. That is quite obvious from the fact that people from other States are flocking there to live in their tens of thousands every year and are doing so of their own free choice, regardless of what they have read in the Melbourne  Age,  the  Australian  or anything else. They are coming particularly from Victoria and New South Wales. Some interesting things have happened in terms of our domestic politics because of that southern migration. That is another story, but it is an interesting one. The numbers have been so great that they are starting to have an impact on domestic politics in very clearly defined areas of the State. 

 - Senator Georges, as an honourable senator who travels the State widely and examines these matters, would be aware of that. I am not saying that Queensland is perfect. It is quite obvious that I do not think that the Queensland Government is perfect because there are many occasions when it is criticised in this chamber, and sometimes I rise to my feet to defend it and sometimes I do not. 
-All in good time. What I am saying to  Senator Georges  now and what I am saying to the people from the other States whom I hope are listening is that there is a great deal of nonsense in the Press about Queensland. The great danger of that, which I think is starting to see fruition in Queensland, is that Queenslanders will stop listening. It is my impression that up until a couple of years ago the more extreme nonsense was treated with amused tolerance by Queenslanders. It is now my impression, as somebody who travels the State and knows its people fairly well, that Queenslanders are starting to lose patience with the nonsense that is talked about them. The great danger is that the justified criticisms- there is quite a number of them- no longer will be heard in Queensland. Unless people talk sensibly about Queensland instead of operating basically on their prejudices, promoting a myth in certain areas, never looking at what is the balance and never looking at why it happens in that way, the great danger is that Queenslanders' ears will be closed to outside influences. I would deplore that. 
Certain things have happened in our domestic politics in recent days that have left me a little bemused. I have to say that. But, in common with my colleagues from Queensland on the other side of the chamber, I have spent most of that time in this city, removed from that city, and it has become a little difficult to weigh up some things. If  Senator Georges  wants it on record, I will put it on record: I cannot see why people cannot march on a Saturday afternoon in Brisbane if they want to demonstrate a political point of view. That is my point of view. Nobody has ever asked me for it; I have volunteered it. I have been waiting for somebody to ask me for it, but nobody has done so. But that is another issue. 
-It is a credit to the honourable senator's good sense that he was not game to ask. I rose to speak, as I said at the beginning, because whilst there are justified criticisms that could be made of Queensland, people should not speak out of ignorance of the State. It was to a speech in ignorance of that State that I rose to reply. I did so to put on record some of the facts. When people speak in this chamber to a grantsBilltheyshouldrelatetheirremarksto factsabouteconomiesandneeds.Whenthey speak out of prejudice on a totally different issue we have come to a very low level of debate indeed. 
-If the honourable senator is that thick I cannot help him. I rose to try to identify the areas of fact that ought to be put on record in this debate on a Bill in relation to Queensland. I believe that all Queenslanders, regardless of their politics, have much to be proud of in their State. I believe that even the Labor senators take some pride in some aspects of their State. I certainly do in relation to the development and potential of the State and in relation to the people of the State and their attitude of live and let live. I really think that Queenslanders have shown a great deal of tolerance to the nonsense to which they have been subjected in the last three or four years. It was nonsense that was started to try to justify why the Federal Labor Government was unpopular there. It was not in terms of issues and not in terms of its activities but in terms of some vague, deep, sinister sense to which it chose to put down its own failures. The representatives of Queensland in this chamber should get the debate on to facts, even if the facts turn out to be critical of the State, and keep it on facts. We will be then operating in a way that is useful to our State and nation. 
Is the Minister for Education aware whether there has been a decline in recent years in the number of students attending non-government schools? If there has been, what are the reasons for this decline? What impact does this situation have on the education system as a whole? What is the Government doing to rectify the matter? 
I rise to speak on the Address-in-Reply to the Speech delivered by the Governor-General opening the Parliament. There is, on the part of senators from Queensland, a particular interest in that speech and in the appointment of the Governor-General. Those of us who not only come from Queensland but also have been associated with the University of Queensland, as have  Senator Colston  and I, have a particular knowledge of the sort of job that  Sir Zelman  Cowen did as Vice Chancellor of the University, and look forward with interest to see how this man, who has for many years been recognised throughout Australia for his endeavours in various areas of activity, will fill this post. 
I should like to congratulate  Senator Haines  upon her maiden speech. I think we all admire the courage which  Senator Haines,  who came here on her own as it were, without Party colleagues, has shown in involving herself immediately in the workings of the Senate, and her eagerness to give her maiden speech so that she can be an active participant in the proceedings of this chamber during the time that she will be here. I make no comment about the method of her appointment because I do not hold her responsible for that. However, on the basis of her performance so far I am sure that we will receive much benefit from her stay here. 
I look forward to greeting appropriately the other senators from the Australian Democrats when they arrive and will be interested to see how they perform in this chamber. I am especially interested to see how these representatives of the Party which made the Senate its particular target in the 1977 election treat this body in fact. I, along with certain others in this chamber, remember clearly that  Mr Chipp  and others were party to supporting a Yes vote in a referendum which, if carried, would certainly have damaged this chamber. While I do not want to canvass that issue again because it was settled by the electors, I do feel some misgivings about the fact that a party which, by its own actions, has shown that it is not particularly motivated to the Senate as a States House and a house of review has nevertheless chosen this chamber as its political target on the grounds that it is easier for a minor party to receive representation in it than in the State parliaments or in the House of Representatives. We must await the arrival of those senators to see how they demonstrate their sincerity by their actions in this chamber, in the light of their motives for wanting to be here. 
I wanted to make one or two comments, in opening, about the 1977 election, a subject in which the Australian Democrats are, of course, highly relevant. At the declaration of the poll in Queensland I made some comments on the election. It was a fairly long speech of some 20 to 25 minutes duration. One sentence, though almost irrelevant to my speech, received a great deal of media attention. I do not intend to repeat that sentence this evening, but would like to repeat a little of what I said on that occasion concerning my impressions on the election and what it meant to this country. 
Without doubt, the overwhelming mood of the electorate in 1977 was one of weariness and cynicism; not necessarily weariness at having to vote again, because there was a special situation in Queensland in that only one month earlier there had been voting for the State election. I do not think that Australians are so careless of their rights in a democracy that they objected to having to vote again. Indeed, I think they cherished that right, and meant to make the best use of it that they could. But continually I heard from voters during the campaign throughout Queensland a sentiment expressed which concerned me greatly. That was one of disillusionment with political parties, rather than the structure of government and parliament in Australia. These were not necessarily voters who were being motivated to vote for the Australian Democrats as a result of their disillusionment. Undoubtedly some were, but not all. These were people who had a firm view in support of the Liberal Party, the National Party or the Labor Party but voted without any great joy for any of those parties. One person with whom I had a discussion summed it up fairly well. She was a youngish woman, in her 30s, very intelligent and very much involved in the community. In discussing the question with me she said very simply: ' We feel used. ' 
I think that does sum up the feeling of many Australians. She was referring to the way that she, as a voter, felt in relation to the major parties, be they government or opposition, in Australia. I believe every candidate in the last election, regardless of party, would have been quite aware of that sentiment on the part of a significant section of the Australian public, which is a thinking and caring public, one which cares about this nation and wants to see government, whatever its political colour, clearly motivated towards acting in the interests of our nation. Many people do not have confidence that Australia's political parties have that motivation. We can debate whether that lack of confidence is justified in relation to our own Party. What we must nevertheless take very seriously, whatever else we may say in this debate, is the fact that that feeling is there, that it is strong and that it is pervasive. We have, as elected representatives of the people, a special responsibility to ensure that they see that what we do is relevant to them; that we are representing them and are working for the good of our country in the way that we see best, whatever our political philosophy or affiliation. 
I believe that all political parties, and certainly all members of the Parliament, should address themselves very seriously to this problem with an open mind, not approaching it from the standpoint of a political philosophy to which we have all long since been committed, on whatever side of politics we happen to be, but with a true concern for what so many Australians are sayingbelieving that if so many are saying it, it is something that we ought to take very seriously indeed, try to analyse and respond to rather than utilise for our own short term political objectives. There is certainly a very strong feeling of disillusionment with the major political parties in Australia. There is probably not much point in continuing a debate into why this should be so, but we ought to recognise that it is there. All of us, whatever our political allegiance, believe that our party has something to offer this country. We differ only as to the best way to direct our country according to our own political philosophy. Nevertheless I feel that a major part of the disillusionment is that too many people have seen members of Parliament anxious only to score political points on the basis of party rather than with an eye to what is best for the nation 's welfare. 
The points which are scored in this place frequently come too cheap and, unfortunately, especially so during election campaigns, when the attention of the media is really centered on the politicians, especially the leaders: That sort of point scoring becomes monotonous, tedious and disillusioning. It really puts that sort of unworthy political activity into the spotlight and people, I believe, reacted to it last year. We cannot just believe that it will just go away for another three years, until the next election. There is a mood abroad of which heed must be taken. 
Much has been said in this debate about the relevance of Parliament and there will, of course, be much more debate in this chamber in months to come on how we can attempt to make the Senate more relevant within the parliamentary system. The responsibility for doing that is, obviously, upon both Government and Opposition. Possibly, there is a slightly greater responsibility upon the Government because it usually initiates changes in this chamber. The Senate Opposition, whatever party it may be, has nevertheless developed a tradition of making a positive contribution to the processes of this chamber. I hope that we can look forward to a genuinely bipartisan attempt in the Senate to find ways to make the Senate more relevant to all Australians, not only to those in States which are currently most aware of its importance. 
My own special interest in this subject is sparked by a long-growing irritation, which has grown into anger on some issues, with certain statutory corporations. For quite some time I, obviously along with many other members of the Parliament, have had a growing concern about the power of statutory corporations in our society, about the way they are using that power and about the seeming impotence of Parliament to try to reach out and do anything about it. As a general rule, we set up statutory corporations because we believe there is a function that is best performed without the interference of party politicians. Some of those statutory corporations occupy positions of enormous privilege and social importance in our community. Many of us believe, I am sure, that some of them are now acting in a way which has the most profound social implications for our country. Their decisions are ones of far-reaching importance to many Australian citizens, but they are beyond the control of Parliament and at times they act as though they believe they are beyond the questioning of Parliament. 
We have to address ourselves vigorously to this problem. I am aware that a Senate committee is investigating statutory corporations at present, but I think that we also should all be aware of the possibilities of what I would openly call an abuse of the authority by some of these corporations, and their disregard for the responsibility that ought to go with that authority. We have debated this subject in passing on a number of other specific topics. We have debated it in relation to the Australian Broadcasting Commission, and it also arose last year in debate on some industrial legislation when we were particularly concerned about what was happening with Australia Post and Redfern particularly at that time. I believe that we should address ourselves vigorously and continuously to this problem, not in order to blackguard the statutory corporations but to look seriously at the nature of the problem to see what sort of difficulties it is creating for Parliament, and to try to find a reasonable solution which will somehow meet the original objective of statutory corporations but will not at the same time undermine the authority and responsibility of Parliament. 
Generally, statutory corporations operate from a position of privilege. I shall talk about two particular statutory corporations this evening, the Australian Telecommunications Commission and Australia Post, which I shall take as one example, and the Australian Broadcasting Commission which I take as another example. These corporations occupy a position of privilege. Telecom and Australia Post have a virtual monopoly on a particular form of communication in this country. The ABC has a monopoly in certain areas. Telecom and Australia Post have to find their own finance. The ABC does not; it is financed from the public purse. When a government allows such organisations as Telecom and Australia Post to occupy the highly privileged position they have in the area of communications in Australia it must recognise that those organisations can make decisions which can have the most profound social implications for the development of our country and a very large impact on policies which a government is pursuing in other areas. When a government funds a corporation such as the Australian Broadcasting Commission and makes it independentfor a very good reason- it nevertheless must face the fact that it has given public funds to the organisation and somebody has to be responsible for how those funds are used. Unfortunately, accountability and responsibility are two area which certain statutory corporations- I include the ABC, Telecom and Australia Post among them- and government have been very unwilling to face. They have not faced their real responsibilities for what is happening with the political and social power and the public funds conferred on them by government. 
Two things in particular stir me to speak on these subjects this evening. I shall deal with the Australian Broadcasting Commission first. Last year a citizen of Queensland wrote to me complaining about a certain radio program which she alleged had been broadcast at 5.30 on a Sunday evening. This person, the mother of a young family, said that the ABC was the only broadcasting service that they could get in their area. If they wanted to listen to the radio at that time on a Sunday afternoon- obviously a fairly popular time for family listening- the ABC was the only program they could listen to. This woman told me that she had been horrified by the content of two programs which had been broadcast as part of a series. I am about to get into the area of censorship and moral standards. I realise that this is an area we tend to shy away from as vigorously as we can in the Parliament, but in shying away from it we are doing a disservice to our citizens. I do not believe that the debate has to be hysterical on a straight out question of individual liberties. We can indicate that there is a standard of generally accepted public decency in Australia to which one ought to expect a publicly funded broadcasting service to adhere. 
The first of the two programs to which this woman objected was on homosexuality. The second was on lesbianism. She had written to the previous Minister for Post and Telecommunications complaining about the program. She had also written to the General Manager of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I regret that I do not have with me this evening copies of the correspondence. I am afraid that I left them in Brisbane this week through an oversight on my part. I ask honourable senators to bear with me and accept a brief precis of the contents of those letters. The General Manager of the Australian Broadcasting Commission replied to the effect that broadcasters had a responsibility in extending discussion of certain social issues and that the issues to which she had taken exception were ones which the ABC felt were better to be openly discussed by the community. I have no quarrel with that theory. The letter from the Minister for Post and Telecommunications was very brief. He said that he did not believe that the Government should interfere politically with the ABC. I do not think anybody was suggesting party political interference with the ABC. A citizen was saying: What is happening with my money? What is the Broadcasting Commission up to? What is it trying to do when it broadcasts programs of this nature? Can I please have an explanation of what is going on? What is the policy of the Government and the Broadcasting Commission?' Frankly, she just got the brush-off from both the people to whom she wrote. 
She then sent copies of this correspondence to me. I did not correspond with the Minister. I thought that there was probably nothing he would want to add to his answer. However, I wrote to the Australian Broadcasting Commission and requested transcripts of these programs. My reply came not from the General Manager but from the person responsible for ABC 'talk' programs. I was informed that the Australian Broadcasting Commission does not provide transcripts of its programs. However, the ABC did have tapes of these allegedly offending programs, and if I would like to travel to Sydney and sit in an ABC office he would be big-hearted enough to let me listen to those tapes. I felt that was something a little less than a polite response to a member of Parliament acting on behalf of a constituent. I replied to the effect that I had in my possession tapes of the same quality as those used by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I was prepared to post them to Sydney and would be obliged if the ABC would transcribe on to them these programs and return them to me in Brisbane so that I could hear them without travelling to Sydney. I received no reply to that letter. Several weeks later I had a conversation in Canberra with the gentleman who had replied to my first letter in which he informed me that it was unnecessary for me to post my tapes. The ABC would give me copies of the tapes which he just happened to have in his briefcase. We were attending an Estimates committee meeting at the time. With the tapes he had a letter. I regret that I do not have this correspondence with me. What was said in it was rather important. The tone of his letter was entirely different from all the previous correspondence. There was an explanation of the context of these particular programs, the purpose of the series of programs that was being run and a comment that there was some content in the second program which the ABC regretted had been allowed to go to air. Because of some foul-up, somebody being sick and other problems with the internal ABC system of checks and balances, it had slipped through. The tone of the letter was more conciliatory, but I cannot see why that explanation could not have been given to the citizen who had written and complained.  I  am sure that the only reason that more conciliatory and more polite explanation was given was that I had shown that I was prepared to pursue this matter to the end. Even so, that letter was in strong contrast with the tone of the first letter I received from the ABC. I have since played these tapes. At one stage I considered making a written transcript of them and perhaps tabling them in Parliament. There is some language in them which you,  Mr President,  would not accept for incorporation in  Hansard.  However, it is not the language that upsets me most about these tapes.  I  have listened to both of them and what concerns me is the insidiousness of them. I know it is difficult to debate moral issues in those terms-- 

 - Mr President, I find it extraordinary that members of the Labor Party indulge in that son of nonsense when one mentions the ABC. They do themselves and this Parliament no good at all when they are not prepared even to look at something that the ABC has done. It is not a matter of ganging up on the ABC at all. If  Senator Mulvihill  wants to bring up in his speech - 
If  Senator Mulvihill  chooses to raise it in his speech- as I understand it he is the next but one to speak- then he can - 
And I will give him a hearing. But I do not intend to be deterred from what I am trying to say by that sort of aside. What I am saying is as applicable to commercial radio as it is to the Australian Broadcasting Commission, namely the question of standards in broadcasting. It is a very difficult question. I am trying to deal with it objectively; I am trying to deal with it in a non-impassioned way and to get to grips with this very difficult area. I have no objection to the broadcasting of programs on homosexuality and lesbianism if they serve some useful purpose. What I objected to in these two programs was, I repeat, the insidiousness of them. They were a series - 
Just  wait a minute and Listen! 
Thank you,  Mr President.  The two programs were a series of interviews with young people discussing their own experiences with and attitudes to this subject. As I said, all the people interviewed were young. I do not know whether the tapes were heavily cut but that is possible because the young people who were interviewed came across in an extraordinarily fluent manner. That is unusual when young people in their late teens and early twenties are interviewed. However, what 1 objected to was the total lack of balance in the programs. By the end of the program any young people in their teens who may have felt that they were interested in this subject would have known exactly how to go about becoming a homosexual or a lesbian. They would have known exactly who to contact in the major capital cities. But they were given no information at all about counselling of a balanced son; they were only told how to join the 'scene'. 
From my own readings on the subject- they are not extensive but it is obviously a current social issue- I have reason to believe that many people follow that pattern of behaviour and then bitterly regret it. There was no comment from people like that; there was no balancing in the programs at all. Instead there was a very smooth and persuasive commentary from people who were committed to a certain form of social behaviour and who were defending their own actions, not looking at them objectively, over a period of an hour or more. I believe that that sort of programming is unbalanced. I believe that any radio station, be it commercial or noncommercial, which takes unto itself that sort of broadcasting, ought to be prepared to publicly justify having gone about it in that way. In contrast, as I have said, when a citizen attempted to pursue that line of questioning she got the total brush off and the Minister used the convenient let out of non-political interference with the ABC. It would not have amounted to political interference. It might have amounted to showing some responsibility and interest in what is being done with public funds under the guise of parliamentary approval. 
I was given rather curt treatment when I at first inquired about the content of these programs. It was only when I showed that I was totally determined to pursue the matter- that I was not prepared to catch a plane to Sydney and sit in someone 's office for the great privilege of listening to the tapes- that I received what I think was reasonable consideration from the ABC. 
-By the time  Senator Mulvihill  has finished his speech he will have had about 65 minutes. That should be enough for anyone. Will he just let me finish my own speech as neatly as I can. I say in conclusion on the matter of the ABC that it does operate with public funds. That does not mean that politicians should be telling it who it ought to employ and what its programs should be. It does mean that when it takes unto itself the authority that goes with broadcasting, a monopoly authority in many areas of Australia, it is accountable to the public, either directly or through the public's representatives, when the public objects to what it does. We need to have in this place on occasions a dispassioned debate on what happens in publicly funded authorities. It is indeed a great disservice to the Australian public and it is a denigration of our dudes when we approach a debate on a matter such as the ABC on a blind party political basis. That is what I was talking about at the beginning of my speech. The reason so many people are disillusioned with Parliament is that they see too many politicians who only go through that knee jerk exercise and who show no willingness at all to use their intellect to dispassionately examine a matter of considerable social importance. 
I want also to make some references to the activities of Australia Post in a particular area in my State. I think it again reflects the enormous social implications of the activities of Australia Post and Telecom when they make decisions which are very difficult for members of Parliament to understand or learn the facts of, let alone to affect. 
I have received recently some information from people living in an area centered on a small town called Abercorn. This is in the general Monto area which is a very large beef growing area. A secondary but very important industry in the area is timber growing. It seems to me that the people who live in this area are going through a process through which many other people in Australia have gone. They are threatened with the closure or downgrading of their post office and their local telephone exchange. I am informed that Australia Post and Telecom are at the moment conducting an investigation into whether this mail service and telephone service which have operated for many years ought to be continued. 
The concern of the people involved is that they have seen many people lose their phone and mail services or have them dramatically reduced without having had an opportunity reasonably to put their case. They have reason to believe that Telecom and Australia Post are currently proceeding on the basis of misinformation in their case. They have not been invited by these statutatory corporations to put their point of view on the matter. There has been some private correspondence within Australia Post and Telecom which has not involved the local citizens at all. Their fear is that decisions will be made, possibly on the basis of misinformation but certainly before the consumers are given any opportunity to put their case. I want to give honourable senators some information relating to this service but I want to take it further than just that postal and telephone service. I want to show the implications of what a negative decision will mean for these people. 
We all know only too well when we receive anguished letters from our constituents on subjects such as mail services and telephone services what are the normal consequence of our engaging in correspondence on these subjects. When we write to any Minister for Post and Telecommunications and plead that he consider the social and political implications of an adverse decision we are invariably told that Australia Post and Telecom are independent bodies which have been set up in a particular way and that it is not for Ministers of the Crown to interfere in their decisions. There might be a good case for that but I am not convinced that it is the whole case. I fear that a position has existed under governments of all political colours of Ministers and governments not really facing their responsibility in this area. Basic communications are tremendously important social development factors in our country- particularly in our country, which is so huge and which has such a small population. I am part of a government which is committed to decentralisation, and we cannot have meaningful decentralisation without an adequate communications system. 
In the case of the Abercorn exchange, I believe that Telecom is proceeding on the basis that the exchange has only 12 subscribers. These words have been used in correspondence. 
Mulgildie is close. I ask the honourable senator to wait a minute. I am not going to talk about Mulgildie yet. It is in the area, and I congratulate  Senator McAuliffe  for remembering that Mulgildie is between Abercorn and Monto. Mulgildie is not involved at the moment. From all the available evidence, Telecom is proceeding on the basis that there are only 12 subscribers on the Abercorn exchange. In fact, there are 12 party lines and 29 subscribers. That is the basis on which the matter ought to be debated. In view of the secrecy with which Telecom goes about these things, naturally the local subscribers are concerned that that is the basis upon which Telecom is proceeding. They have good reason to believe it, but Telecom has never communicated to them that that is the basis on which it is proceeding. As I have said, there are 29 separate phone connections involved and that is rather more significant than 12. There are more than 29 families involved who are working in the beef industry in this developing area of Queensland. 
One is led to wonder whether other decisions to close down exchanges have been based on misconceptions about the actual service that is being given. When Telecom is not required to justify its actions until after the event, if ever, one is in no position to know what is really going on. 
I am told that Australia Post has planned for some time to amalgamate two mail services in this area.  Senator McAuliffe  interjected in relation to Mulgildie. 
I know Mulgildie very well. It is at the end of the story. I ask the honourable senator to be patient. There are two mail services- one which runs from Abercorn and another which runs from Eidsvold, some 18 miles south of Abercorn. 
Is is the Federal electorate of Kennedy. I am sorry that  Senator Mulvihill's  knowledge of the geography of Queensland is not up to that of  Senator McAuliffe.  Some time ago the Abercorn service was centred on Eidsvold. In fact the people who live in that area do more business with Monto, although it is just a few miles further distant, and many of them see Monto rather than Eidsvold as the centre of their business. After a great struggle they managed to get Monto considered as part of their local area and they were no longer making trunk line calls every time they made a call to Monto. They managed to have Monto rather than Eidsvold, which was just a few miles closer, recognised as their natural centre. Now they are led to believe- they have not been officially told- that Australia Post is considering amalgamating their mail service from Abercorn, which is three times a week, with an Eidsvold mail service. 
The Eidsvold service seems to be particularly badly designed because at the end of the run there are nine dead miles; that is, nine miles without any calls until the last two or three calls. The local people believe that it would make more sense for the calls at the end of that run to be added to the Abercorn run, which would make it a more viable one. But the answer to that from Australia Post is: 'No, we will scrap Abercorn altogether and we will tie it all in with the Eidsvold run and reduce it to possibly one service a week'. Australia Post apparently also reasons that when it reduces a service to once a week mail becomes less important because people tend to go to town at least once a week. What an extraordinary philosophy for our basic communication service it is that Australia Post will count on people driving some 30 to 40 miles to their local town once a week- it believes, as of necessity- instead of using the local mail service. What an extraordinary assumption! 
I know that that is an attitude towards people of the outback. What is making the people of Abercorn despair is that over the years they have had their service steadily reduced. They are only too aware that people in very isolated areas are lucky if they get a mail service at all. They see themselves headed for the same sort of problem because they cannot get access to Australia Post and Telecom when the decisions are being made and it seems that their elected representatives are not capable of doing so either. The decision making is removed from us and we cannot get a sensible and factual answer when we try to investigate the matter. 

 - Senator Bishop had something to do with the setting up of Telecom and Australia Post. I do not think he would be blowing his trumpet too strongly in this area. Not surprisingly, as the mail services decrease, so does the volume of mail handled decrease; so it becomes a vicious circle. Because people are not getting a reasonable mail service they are not using the mail service, and that in turn is given as a reason for cutting it out altogether or, at most, doing them a favour and giving them a service once a week. This ignores the fact that mail services are critical to people in these areas. 
One of these people has complained to me that they believed it was Government policy to decentralise, not centralise. Australia Post has indicated what it wants to do: Instead of using a local mail distribution, with four different centres being served by Abercorn, it wants to take all the mail from Abercorn to Maryborough for central sorting and then send it back. I do not know how this is more efficient. The distance between Abercorn and Eidsvold, another major centre, is less than 20 miles and the distance between Abercorn and Monto is less than 30 miles. The distance between these areas and Maryborough is in the 100 to 150 mile range. The mail will have to be taken all that distance, re-sorted and sent back again. One wonders what the rationale is. The difficulty is that one can never get the people who make the decisions and who are operating on this rationale to enter into a public debate. 
I might say, as a final postscript on the case on which Australia Post is apparently proceeding within the privacy of its own offices, that it quotes the fact that there is no longer a bakery or a store in Abercorn. It sees Abercorn as a dying town and that confirms, in the mind of Australia Post, that the exchange and the mail service ought to go. The simple fact of the story is that the person who owned the general store also used to operate the school bus run. The store burned down. With the beef industry depression, whilst it was previously economic for the person to operate the school bus run and the store it did not justify rebuilding at that time. However, the people in the area believe that if beef prices pick up and more income is generated in the area that store will be rebuilt. Some of the social consequences of all this are very serious indeed. The person who presently operates the mail run and the telephone exchange has five children. If the mail run and exchange go, it is likely that the local railway family will be transferred. That family also has several children. There is a small school at Abercorn and the risk of losing those families is that the school will have to close and the children from that school will have to travel by bus to Mulgildie, which is rather further than they have to travel to Abercorn. At present the children have to travel varying distances to their school, lt may be anything up to 20 miles. If they have to go to Mulgildie, most of them will have to travel anything from 10 to 20 miles extra each way in their journey to and from school. Losing the school would be a very serious blow to the people who already are living in this area under some privation. 

 - Senator Georges interjects, and for once he does not interject very loudly. I could not quite catch what he was saying. He was a member, as I was, of the Senate committee that looked at the problems of the education of isolated children. The matter of the closure of schools was thought by that Committee to be a very serious one indeed. Parents in the Abercorn district are faced with the prospect of having to send their children on 50-mile and 60-mile journeys each day so that they can attend school, or else of sending them to a boarding school. The families in the beef-raising areas of Queensland, certainly parents in this area who have a fairly young family, cannot afford to send their children to boarding school. Their only alternative is to have their children go through a very rigorous journey so that they can attend school each day. 
The Federal Government, I believe, withdraws from this sort of problem at its own risk. I quote from a report in the Monto  Herald  of Thursday, 2 February 1978. This, I think, is probably fairly typical of the kind of comment that gets into a local newspaper when this sort of problem arises. I quote from a story headed Govt. Decision gets a Blast from Council'. The article stated: 
The possibility of the closure of the Abercorn Post Office is causing the Eidsvold Shire Council Chairman, Councillor Mac Hamilton, grave concern. 
At a Council meeting last Friday, Councillor Hamilton blasted the Federal Government for what was termed ' policy setting on costs alone '. 
Councillor Hamilton said it was ridiculous that shires should be placed in awkward positions by a government supposedly sympathetic to the country dweller. 
Of course the simple fact is that government supporters who try to do something about that sort of situation are told that they and the Government are powerless. Nevertheless, the Government gets the blast locally. Governments must face this problem. They must face the reality that what Australia Post and Telecom are doing are of fundamental social importance in the development of our country, and a government which claims to be in favour of decentralisation must face the fact that there are certain costs that go with decentralisation. It is good to have industries which go into remote areas, which generate employment and export earnings, but there are certain costs attached to that. The costs are, of course, notably high in the area of communications. But we cannot expect people to undertake pioneering work without at least the basic services of communication with the outside world, which is particularly necessary in cases of emergency which are likely to arise in these areas. Also their children ought to have reasonable access to a decent education. 
Governments, I believe, can no longer shrink from this fact. If the Government looks the other way and lets bodies such as Australia Post and Telecom, which have no particular social responsibility I am not saying that they are necessarily irresponsible, but there is no particular urgency on them to respond to social feelings- have their way, the Government has abdicated a very large area of its own responsibility. If the people hold the Government responsible, regardless of whether or not it claims it could influence the decision, and react adversely to the Government's inaction then the Government will have earned its fate. 
I direct a question without notice to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. It follows a question asked by  Senator Missen  earlier today. Since it is clear from the Ministers answer to that question that air conditioning of Commonwealth motor vehicles is not imminent, I ask the Minister whether, notwithstanding his reluctance to lead the field in air conditioning, he would give consideration to catching up in the field of clothing for Commonwealth drivers, particularly those based in Brisbane and other areas with tropical and subtropical climates. Will the Minister consider allowing drivers to have a summer uniform which will not require them to wear long trousers and long sleeved shirts, ties and caps in non-air conditioned cars in areas where temperatures are frequently in the 30s for months on end as in Queensland? 
I rise to set the record straight on an issue which was raised in the Senate last Thursday. In recent times there has been some comment about the use and abuse of parliamentary privilege. I believe that there was an abuse of parliamentary privilege last Thursday when  Senator Georges  addressed the Senate and made certain statements which were in no way founded in fact.  His  speech was designed primarily to defend the position of one  Mr Bill  Wood, who was an Australian Labor Party candidate at the last State election. It is claimed by the Labor Party that  Mr Wood  has since been victimised. I do not intend to canvass  Mr Wood's  position because that has been spoken about here by other speakers. I do intend to take up a statement by  Senator Georges  in his speech which was com.peltely untrue and on which the record ought to be set straight. 
At present in Queensland there is a campaign, involving quite innocent people, which is aimed at the State Government and is not based on fact. This campaign is on behalf of  Mr Bill  Wood, disregards the facts and does great harm to the reputations of innocent people. In the course of this campaign supporters of  Mr Wood  have seen fit to make quite serious allegations about the State Government and other former members of the State Parliament.  Senator Georges  here last Thursday made certain statements which followed a line which has been running for some time in Queensland. I understand that the statements were reported in the  Courier-Mail  last Friday, 3 March. Being part of the public record, they ought to be set straight. 
I quote from a section of  Senator Georges'  speech, recorded on page 341 of Senate  Hansard  of 2 March 1978. He referred to one  Mr David  Byrne, who had been the Liberal member for the electorate of Belmont from 1974 to 1977. He lost his seat in the November 1977 State election. When talking about the fact that  Mr Wood  was out of a job and would not be reappointed to a job in the Department of Education, which he required,  Senator Georges  said: 
This did not happen to  Mr David  Byrne a defeated Liberal candidate at the last election. He was employed as a lecturer in the Police Academy. There was no advertising for the position. As far as can be ascertained there was no vacancy prior to the election. Yet he got the job. There is no wasting time for a supporter of the Queensland Government. He can be squeezed into the Public Service somehow. 
That statement is just untrue. I rise to set the record straight on this matter. In fact, the position which  Mr Byrne  filled was advertised. I have a copy of the advertisement which appeared on page 2 of the  Courier-Mail  of 12 November 1977. I understand that it was repeated in the edition of 19 November 1977. The State election in Queensland was held on 12 November. When the decision was made to advertise the vacancy no doubt it was not known that  Mr Byrne  would be an applicant for a job subsequent to his losing his seat. This advertisement shows that the Queensland Police Academy required lecturers for academic appointments, including lecturers in senior English, in senior English and modern history and in accountancy and social mathematics. 

 Mr Byrne prior to his entry to Parliament was a senior master at a Brisbane private school, where he specialised in English and history. He is an arts graduate and has a post-graduate diploma. Therefore, he was obviously qualified to put himself forward for this job. He is a registered teacher and was more than adequately qualified for the position when he lost his seat in 
Parliament. The advertisement shows that the closing date for applications was 25 November 1977. I am informed that  Mr Byrne's  application, forwarded in response to this advertisement, was dated 22 November and was received by the Police Department at 9.30 a.m. on 24 November. So there were indeed several known vacancies before the State election. They were advertised in the newspaper on the day of the State election, which I suggest was totally coincidental. They were advertised again a week later, and applications closed some 13 days after the appearance of the original advertisement. 

 Senator Georges' statement that there was no advertising of the position and no vacancy prior to the election is just untrue. It is disappointing that an honourable senator would make statements like that without making any attempt to find our whether they were true. I suggest to  Senator Georges  that all he had to do was to lift the telephone and call the Commisioner's office to find out the position. The allegation was loose and unfounded and seriously imputes the reputation of the Queensland State Government,  Mr David  Byrne and the Queensland Police Commissioner. I believe the record ought to be set straight. I seek the indulgence of the Senate to table for the record a photocopy of the advertisement which appeared in the  Courier-Mail. 
Leave granted. 
Other things have happened in Queensland in relation to other State members of Parliament which I think ought to be referred to at this stage because usually  Mr Byrne  is referred to in the same breath as  Mr Colin  Lamont and  Mr Dennis  Young, also former Liberal members of the State Parliament who lost their seats and have since obtained other jobs. There was a program on  This Day Tonight  in Queensland- I am sorry I cannot cite the date, but I know it was in the week before Parliament resumed so I could find out the datewhich related to  Mr Wood  and made the statement that Messrs Byrne, Lamont and Young had achieved high government appointments after their defeat at the election, although  Mr Wood  could not get the position he wanted. 
The record ought to be set straight. There are reasons why this allegation was particularly damaging.  Mr Young,  prior to entering Parliament, was a member of the Juvenile Aid Bureau of the Queensland Police Force. Since leaving Parliament he has rejoined the Juvenile Aid Bureau of the Queensland Police Force. However, it ought to be noted that, far from this being a top government job,  Mr Young  returned to work at the Queensland Police Force in the Juvenile Aid Bureau without any recognition of his service prior to his election to the State Parliament in 1974. When he entered the Parliament he was a constable in the State Police Force. When he left Parliament he returned to being a constable in the State Police Force. He has been reappointed on the same terms and conditions as a new recruit, which hardly constitutes a toppaying government job. 
In fact,  Mr Young  has received no preferential treatment at all. He certainly has gone back into the Queensland Police Force and into a job in which he was widely recognised as being very successful, the Juvenile Aid Bureau being one of the very highly regarded sections of the Queensland Police Force. To suggest that he received any advantage in that appointment is quite unfair to  Mr Young.  In fact, he went in without the advantages which he had when he left the job in order to go into Parliament. 
There is particular concern relating to the position of  Mr Lamont. Mr Lamont  is now the Executive Director of the Queensland Deaf Society. He was appointed to that position following the death of the Society's previous director. The Deaf Society advertised the position during October 1977 and it had not been filled by the time  Mr Lamont  was defeated in the November Queensland State election. The suggestion has been made that this is some sort of government position and that government influence was brought to bear in order to have  Mr Lamont  appointed to it. This allegation has been extremely damaging to the Deaf Society and the record should be set straight.  Mr Lamont  has been  president  of the Australian Deafness Council in Queensland for the past two years. He is himself deaf as a result of a bomb explosion which occurred when he was in the police force in Hong Kong.  His  extensive work for the handicapped in the State is very much valued by those concerned. 
The Deaf Society is a private charitable organisation, run by a private board in Queensland, elected annually by the deaf community and other Society members at a public meeting. Appointments such as  Mr Lamont  's are made by that board without reference to government. No representative of the government is a member of the Board.  Mr Lamont  's appointment is therefore not influenced by the Government. He does not hold a government position. However, the Queensland Deaf Society, which is a charitable organisation, has been damaged by allegations that the Queensland State Government can determine who will be appointed as its State director. In fact,  Mr Lamont,  because of his experience before entering parliament and during his time in parliament, was admirably suited for the job. The Deaf Society, which has no connection with the Government at all, made a completely independent judgment in appointing him. However, because of the allegation that there was some sort of government influence and that this is some sort of government job, an organisation which is entirely a charitable body feels that it has been disadvantaged in the eyes of the Queensland public. That is why I have raised the matter. The record ought to be set straight. While people may feel that they have a case for  Mr Wood-  which is a debatable case- they ought not to involve innocent people like  Mr Lamont  and  Mr Young.  They ought to think before they damage organisations such as the Queensland Deaf Society. 
I am puzzled by what the Opposition is trying to indicate to the Senate in this debate. We have an amendment before us on which we have heard little so far. Therefore, I shall not comment on the amendment at this stage. I shall comment on the content of the debate as it has flowed to and fro on either side. The case from the other side of the chamber has been put forward in two parts. The first part is an allegation that people are acting too hastily on security and therefore the proposed actions should be slowed down. The second part is that no action should be taken, in any event. I wonder what honourable senators opposite are trying to achieve. At the beginning of the debate there was some sort of structure to the argument. It has been a little difficult to follow since. Perhaps we can extemporise for a few minutes. 

 Senator Primmer made us privy to some fascinating personal incidents he has experienced in his time as an honourable senator. I shall refer to a few I have experienced which alarmed me in relation to security. They have led me to the conclusion that some sort of action on security is long overdue. The question of whether the action we are taking is precisely the right action and how the action should be taken are other matters. I shall get on to that matter. I have had a number of experiences which have alarmed me from the time I first became a senator. People assume that Parliament House is a fairly secure place. I am sure that all of us have had experience of people from outside expressing some surprise at the free entry and roaming of corridors afforded to anyone who walks in to this place off the street. 
Like most members of the public, I assumed when I was elected that there was some sort of security and that so long as I was in this building I was reasonably secure at any time of the day or night. Therefore, it was rather a rude shock to me when early in my experience here I left my office very late at night and proceeded to leave the House by the front entrance. I started to walk along the Opposition lobbies- we were then in Opposition- at approximately 2 a.m. and I was rather surprised when I turned the corner into the Opposition lobby to confront two men, one of whom was lifting from its position hanging outside the Opposition Senate party room the notice board which notifies honourable senators when meetings of parties will be held. As I said, I was rather surprised. I was also a little tired so my reactions were not very quick. I looked at them; they looked at me. One of them said: 'Can you tell us how we get out of here?' As we were then approximately 10 yards from the doorway into King's Hall I concluded that those gentlemen did not know where they were and, therefore, they had no right whatsoever to be in the Opposition lobbies at that time of night. However, I am not an unnaturally intrepid soul so I pointed out the doorway to them hoping they would get out of it as quickly as they could. That incident brought home to me the fact that I could not work here late at night with the previous confidence I had that so long as I was in Parliament House I was secure. Since then when I work here late at night I assume that I must lock the door to my office. Security is so poor that one cannot be sure who will be wandering around here even at that time of night or morning. 
I had a further experience when I was Opposition  Deputy  Whip. As you are aware,  Mr Deputy President,  there are two doors behind you which lead from this chamber into a corridor which the  President  traditionally uses when he moves to and from this chamber. That corridor leads into one of the main Senate corridors. You would also be aware,  Mr Deputy President,  that crossing the President's corridor and forming a T-intersection is a corridor between the offices of the Government Whip and the Opposition Whip. The whips use this corridor to communicate quickly with one another. One day when the  President  was in the chair I had cause to proceed from the Opposition Whip's office to the Government Whip's office. I was at the Tintersection when I was rather surprised to bump into two young men. I hope that I am not considered a bigot in terms of dress or anything else but the fact that they were wearing jeans and Tshirts and no shoes, that I did not recognise them and that when they saw me they took to their heels, indicated to me that they had no business being within five feet of the door which leads into this chamber. 
Those two incidents have alarmed me. I mentioned them to the previous President, and 1 mentioned them to the current President. They are the sorts of things that can happen. Some people might say that the attendants have no business letting people wander around the corridors. My feelings on that are a little mixed. 
I will give a few more anecdotes for  Senator Primmer's  benefit. He is not the only one who has not been recognised around here. The fact that some strange gentleman had some sort of surveillance over entree cards for a reception here is another matter. I have long since felt that it must be an impossible job for attendants in this place to know whom they should be halting when people attempt to proceed through doors marked 'Strictly members only'. There is no way for them to tell whether those people should be there or not, unless they happen to recognise them. It is no wonder that the attendants have not bothered to challenge strangers in the past, except on a few rare occasions. 
I will not attempt to count the number of times that I have been refused access to the Senators' Gallery in the House of Representatives. The most recent time was early this year. I have been in this place for nearly four years and the gentleman who sought on that occasion to refuse me access to that gallery in the House of Representatives was someone whom I recognised very well indeed. He had probably been here for at least as long as I have, but he did not recognise me. There is, of course, a universal assumption that members of Parliament are not women; so some attendants have made that assumption and when a woman has attempted to enter the chamber they have not bothered to check their memories to find out whether she does have rightful access to that chamber. If he had been a new attendant I would not have been annoyed; but, since he was someone I recognised, I think it was only reasonable to expect that that attendant to recognise me. However, that is apparently one of the difficulties for women in this place. I have also, on occasions, been very rudely refused access to party meetings by attendants who thought I was a member's secretary and therefore someone who could not set foot in that sacrosanct area. But we have managed to clear up those situations fairly smartly. 
I do understand the problem faced by new attendants. They have no reasonable way of knowing who should be allowed to walk through certain doorways in this place. We place an impossible burden on them when we have absolutely no means of identification or checking. Early last year I had the privilege of visiting 
Japan and meeting members of the Diet. I was interested in the fact that in Japan members of the Diet- the upper House and the lower House- wear a distinctive little badge. 
They wear it at all times which the Japanese people recognise even of its wearer is in the street, as indicating that that individual is a member of the Diet. It is a badge that members of the Diet wear proudly. It also has the very clear advantage of security in terms of quick identification. Of course, one can always say that it is possible to lose one's badge and for someone else to pick it up and put it on. That is a hazard. But I think that risk is statistically rather less than the risk that we run every day in this place, with literally dozens of people pouring through the doorways of the Parliament whom attendants do not dare challenge. 
Earlier today I was discussing this subject with a former member of the State Parliament in Queensland who happens to be visiting Canberra at the moment. As I said, he is a former member of a State Parliament and so is a former member of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association, and he happened to be wearing his CPA tie when he arrived. Nobody at any stage of my taking him to various Ministers' offices around the building asked him for a pass, although he did not really have any right of access. But he was wearing a CPA tie which, it appears, guarantees immunity of some sort. It would be just as easy, I would imagine, for somebody to lose his CPA tie and for somebody else to pick it up and know that he could wander around this place without any challenge. I contrast that with my experience and just say that the present situation is quite untenable. If we are to have any reasonable method of security in this Parliament, we must look at the realities and realise that under the present circumstances the responsibilities that are given to certain employees of this Parliament at the moment are impossible for them to carry out. 
Some reference has been made to the Hilton Hotel bombing. I was glad that  Senator Primmer  reminded the Senate that that is not the first such outrage that we have had in this country. I was glad that he reminded the Senate that several letter bombs were sent through the post during the 1975 election campaign and that a non-political individual- a totally innocent person- who had the responsibility of opening the mail in the Queensland Premier's Department was blown up by a bomb because proper security precautions were not taken. I am surprised that  Senator Primmer  did not cast his mind back a little further to an incident in which his party's former leader,  Mr Calwell,  was shot at. It surprises me that people in Australia treat the Hilton Hotel bombing as something which is completely new in our society. We have had this type of violence for some time and, at great risk, we have not taken notice of it. To a certain extent, one can blame the Hilton Hotel bombing on the fact that people have not taken the notice they should have taken of earlier shooting and bombing incidents in this country and have not been as scrupulous with regard to security as they should have been. We all can lament the limitation of freedom that it means, but we have to realise that we have a particular responsibility. 
Our physical security is one matter, but we are surrounded by innocent people. We all know when we go into public life that we run particular risks. We all know that when we address public meetings during election campaigns, when feelings tend to run a little high, and when we do other things of that nature there is a certain risk attached. In Australia we do not expect that risk to be very high. But the people who are around us, the people who come to listen to speakers at these meetings, or the onlookers who sit in our gallery do not think in those terms and they do not expect to run that risk. It is a matter of total horror to us that two completely innocent men were killed in Sydney- the number of men killed has now increased to three- because a bomb had been planted. Two men who were going about their business, totally innocent and unaware of security problems attached to meetings of leaders of nations, lost their lives. Nobody ever thought to warn them that there were certain security risks in that area. 
Certainly, we should not over-react. Certainly, we must make sure that we act in a way which does not infringe civil liberties. It might irk  Senator Primmer  and others that their legitimacy here has been challenged, but I just ask them to put the matter in perspective. They might feel that they have a right to be annoyed about those incidents. Possibly they do. I cannot account for the tone of voice in which they were challenged. However, I think they must realise that if we are to have any realistic security in this building there will be a period of adjustment and settlement. You,  Mr President,  have made a statement on security which I think is probably a reasonable response to the problem. Enormous difficulties are entailed in making Parliament House secure. However, it seems to me to be no answer at all to say that without going to extreme measures we cannot make this building totally secure. 
The fact is that at the moment Parliament House is a favourite target of university studenttype pranks at the time of year when university students get up to such pranks. They gain access to this place with the greatest of ease. I have nothing against university students or their pranks- they tend to be amusing and to liven up a fairly dull scene- but it does prove that people without any particular skill at all have free access to this place now - 
Free access- access to our offices? The honourable senator says 'why not?'; but why should they? We in this building have the right to believe that we are not physical targets for people who have some sort of grudge. We have the right to believe that our papers and our offices are secure. It has been pointed out to me - 
It is not a different matter at all. If people can come in here for the purpose of doing us physical harm- that is one supposition, but there is another one - 
There is another problem, and that is the matter of the security of individual offices. I am astonished at the fact that we cannot secure our own offices, except in the most superficial way. I am astonished, almost whenever I walk into this building, whether the Parliament is sitting or not, to find that I do not need a key to open my office. That means that nobody else needs a key to open my office,  Senator George  's office or a whole lot of other offices in this building. We can, of course, lock our filing cabinets. I do not know whether  Senator Georges  is aware of how many variations of keys there are for the standard issue of Public Service filing cabinets which we have in our offices. Not very many. It seems to me that our offices are not secure and our papers are not secure. Somebody who wanted to make mischief could do so with the greatest of ease. We would then sit back, throw up our hands and say: 'That is dreadful'. There have been incidents in this Parliament where it has been alleged that people have improperly gained access to the rooms of members and senators and gained access to the papers that were in those rooms and, subsequently, used those papers. They are extreme cases; they are not common. I certainly do not know who comes and goes in my office when I am not around. I do not know who comes and goes when I am present on these premises because it could be literally anyone. 
I said at the beginning of my speech that I came here with the assumption that basic security would exist, such as the security in a building in which I work in Queensland- the Australian Government Centre- which essentially houses public servants. After 6 o'clock at night that building is impregnable. It appears to be all right for that building to be made secure but not for this building. I once worked at the University of Queensland. It is not a major target for malcontents in the community, but the same basic security existed. After a certain time of day the doors were securely locked, the building was locked and checked and nobody gained access unless he or she had a key to the door. 
No, I am not confusing the issue.  Senator Georges  will get his turn to speak later. 

 - Senator Georges is trying to confuse me. If he will be quiet for a moment and listen for a change he will find out what I am saying. 

 - Senator Missen may also have a point. As I have said, I came here with the assumption that this place would be reasonably secure. Other people come here with the assumption that it is reasonably secure, such as those innocent bystanders we keep talking about. Shortly after I came here for the first session of Parliament in which I was involved some friends who live in Canberra came to visit me. They came here to join me for the evening meal. I indicated to them that they ought to go to the entrance that we refer to as the 'rear of the Senate' and ask there for me. At a little after the appointed hour I was surprised when they knocked on the door of my office and walked in. They were also a little surprised that they had been allowed to do that. They had come in the Senate entrance door and approached the Senate attendants' box. I must make it perfectly clear that the person to whom I am going to refer anonymously no longer works in this place. My friends approached the Senate attendants' box, which was just inside the doorway, and were mildly taken aback to see someone in a Senate uniform reclining comfortably in his chair with his feet on a desk watching a portable television set. That was at 6 p.m. With some difficulty, they managed to raise their voices above the noise and indicated that they wanted to see me. He told them that my door was next to the lift on the first floor and that they could feel free to get into the lift and go up to my room. So they arrived without any warning at all. 
I do not know what instructions are given to Senate attendants. I do not know whether they are told not to watch television at 6 o'clock at night when they are on duty. I do not know what sort of precautions should be taken in relation to directing total strangers. My friends obviously were total strangers as they did not even know where the lifts were and they just wandered around the building. Perhaps that area of security is deficient. I suspect that the general lackadaisical attitude that has prevailed in the past on the part of members of parliament as well as employees has been at least partly responsible for the fact that that could happen; partly responsible for the fact that the two youths to whom I referred earlier could have been within five feet of this chamber and not have been challenged but just took to their heels when they saw someone who appeared to belong in the place and partly responsible for the fact that two men were wandering around the lobbies of this House at 2 a.m. and did not know how to get out although they had managed to get in. 
I should like to make a few other points but I understand that a ministerial statement is about to be made. Therefore, I seek leave to continue my remarks when the debate is resumed. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Earlier I was making some comments about my personal experience with security in this place. One of the things which has been apparent in the course of debate on this issue concerning the security of Parliament House has been a lament that it is necessary. I believe that we all lament the fact that it is necessary. I remember some years ago lamenting the fact that it was thought to be necessary to build a high fence around the Lodge, the Prime Minister's residence. It had been a feature of Australian life that we tended to come and go fairly easily and freely and did not have to worry about security. But we have had enough incidents now and enough experience with the modern world to realise that we have to be concerned about security. 
I return to the point that it does not have to be a self-centred concern about security; it has to be a concern for the many other people around us. One of the earlier speakers on this matter mentioned staff. Frankly, staff tend to be the first in the line if there is any sort of a problem. I relate to honourable senators an incident which occurred here last year. You will remember only too clearly,  Mr President,  that Parliament House was blacked out for something like 20 minutes on one occasion in February 1977. At that time I happened to be waiting to see the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and was sitting in the lobby outside his door. Everything went totally dark, typewriters stopped and everything came to a halt because we depend so heavily on electricity. It occurred to me after a few seconds that there might have been a sinister cause for the blackout and that, if that were so, I was sitting in the worst seat in Parliament House. I had a cigarette lighter with me which I did not bother to illuminate. I sat there in the dark and was quite happy to remain totally invisible. 
I am afraid that we have to face the reality of that sort of a situation. It is sad that we have to do so. Nobody has to go overboard, but we have to fact the facts. I have seen women come and go in this place with large handbags, to which  Senator Primmer  referred. Also I have seen a lot of gentlemen come and go with briefcases in their hands. I understand that there ought to be some sort of challenge in respect of that. I thought that  Senator Primmer  gave a pretty fair outline of how he reacted when he was challenged by someone who did not know him when he was seeking entry to Parliament House on a particular occasion. The message came across to me quite clearly that he was rather indignant at being challenged because he believed that he should have been known because others knew him. I thought that 'entree card' meant just that -something one carries to gain entry. But apparently to  Senator Primmer  the fact that he was not carrying his entree card was a minor matter. That was unfortunate for  Senator Primmer. 
I can imagine other people who come and go quite regularly in this place- top public servants, top business people, advisers and so on- who might show similar indignation if a stranger were to stop them and insist on searching their belongings before they gained entrance. But that is not an unreasonable requirement. I do not think reasonable people object to reasonable requirements. With one fairly recent exception, I am not aware of members of parliament objecting to the requirement of being searched or having their baggage searched at airports. 
It is for their own safety. Although our country has been mercifully free of serious incidents in our airways, we recognise that we are not invulnerable and that we could have an incident. Therefore it is in the interests of our safety and the safety of everyone in the community who ever uses an aircraft, that we should acquiesce to our baggage being searched and to walking through a metal detector frame or, alternatively, having a metal detector device run over us by certain security people. It is sad that this should now be necessary. It was not part of the old world; unfortunately, it is part of the new world. We have to be careful that when we decide that we must face reality we ensure people 's rights and liberties are not infringed. 
I do not claim unto myself any special right or liberty in this place. I would not like to have to wear one of those identity cards containing a photograph which the airlines people wear. I think that there are probably simpler ways around the problem for some of us- those of us who are coming and going all the time at any rate. I would not object to some sort of identification because I recognise that the people who lay down that policy and who are attempting to enforce it have at heart not only my welfare but also the welfare of those around me. I would realise that that is our motive, and that motive is important. 
Of course, we have to look at the implications of the decision. However, some of the objections that have been raised are rather interesting. It seems to me that during part of  Senator Cavanagh  's speech he was putting down an argument for a new and permanent Parliament House. If we have to wait for that building before we can be sure that people cannot come in with weapons to do damage to anybody they might encounter then we are talking about 'pie in the sky'. I do not think we need to wait for that building. 
We have had talk about fire escapes and exits. What we are complaining about is not that it is too hard to get out of this place but that it is too easy to get in. If there is a fire in this place and it occupies one of the stairwells I would not be particularly worried because one thing this building is not short of is stairwells and ground flood windows over the windowsill of which one can easily swing one's leg. I do not think that is really an objection. There are always problems with fire. I agree that there is a particular problem with this place because it is an old building. But to say that the sort of security that has been proposed in itself represents a fire hazard is not fair. 
I, like other honourable senators who on occasions leave this place late, previously used a side entrance of the Senate when the main entrance was locked. Last week I went to that side entrance only to discover that it was no longer possible for me to let myself out that door. I did not mind walking along a corridor and up a few steps to leave by the main door. I do not see that as an infringement of my liberty. I saw it as probably a fairly sensible security precaution and one which people believed they ought to take. 
Of course, it is important that there be proper consultation. However, one of the things that troubles us in this debate is that there has been too much consultation and not enough action. Problems of security have been raised by members and senators over and over again. In my experience, when I have raised the sorts of incidents to which I referred earlier in my speech, people have thrown up their hands and said that that was terrible and it indicated that Parliament House was insecure. We have been looking at this matter for a long time but we cannot get agreement about what ought to be done. Objection has been raised over and over again. It appears that we do not have agreement again. But if we do not make a start then we have absolutely no basis on which to proceed. 

 Mr President, the proposals you put down seem to me to be quite reasonable and fair. In fact, they are only a starting point. I know of other, far more radical proposals which in themselves would not infringe anybody's civil liberty but which would only limit physical access to certain areas of this building, but not total access to it. I think that approach has to be supported. We need to look at the proposals that are made here by  Mr President.  We need to look at what has already been done and to see whether it does pose a problem. I do not think the changing of the locking system on the side doors will in any way infringe anybody's liberty. I do not believe that has added to the fire hazards in the building, unless there is some aspect which is not readily apparent. It is not my opinion that the areas served by those doors which have been locked and which one cannot get out of are critical in relation to getting out of the building. I would like to see members of the Government and of the Opposition approach this matter in a reasonable way. But approach it we must. We have that responsibility. 
A couple of times I have referred to the fact that we have a responsibility to people who enter this place, who have reasonably free access to the visitors' galleries, those who are in King's Hall and those who have access, through us, to galleries on the floor of the Parliament. A couple of honourable senators opposite have seen fit to sneer at that suggestion. 
However, I remind honourable senators of an incident which occurred here just last year when a group of people came into Senate gallery and threw pamphlets over the balcony of the Senate gallery. It is not a megalomaniac concern for themselves which worried honourable senators on that occasion. While those people were throwing pamphlets they could have easily been throwing hand grenades or something like that. 
The fact is that that demonstrated just how wide open this place is. 
I refer to a previous occasion in 1975 when there was a demonstration in King's Hall. People came in with bulky objects which they then converted into banners in order to shout the then Prime Minister down when he was attempting to make a speech at a reception which was being held in King's Hall. That was appalling. That demonstrated to anybody who could read- an assassin is as likely to be literate as illiterate- that people can walk into this place and do incredible things which fly in the face of all reasonable notions of security, apparently without any difficulties being placed in their way. 

 Mr President, I commend your report to the Senate. I commend the reasonable actions which have been taken. I suggest to the Senate that it ought to face the realities of the modern world and not with a knee jerk reaction say: 'This will cause some inconvenience, even though it be temporary and we, as members of Parliament should not be put to that inconvenience '. We, as members of Parliament, have a responsibility to recognise that we will make decisions on this matter which will affect a large number of people and their daily safety and security. 
Does the Minister representing the Treasurer recall the Prime Minister's promising during the 1977 election campaign that the Federal Government would abolish Federal death duties as from November 1977 with respect to succession by spouses? Is the Minister aware that in the absence of amending legislation from the Government, Federal estate duty returns still have to belodged and that this entails expensive valuations of all the properties of people who have died since November1977? Could the Minister please indicate whether the Government will continue to require people to lodge these returns pending the legislation? Alternatively, will he indicate whether the legislation will shortly be through the Parliament? 
I ask a question of the Minister for Education about the Committee of Inquiry into Nurse Education and Training- the Sax Committee. How many members of the nursing profession are on the Committee? Who are they and whom do they represent? What are their current occupations? Is it a fact, as some people are claiming, that no members of the Committee have had actual practical experience in working as nurses in hospitals? Can the Minister provide the Senate with the facts of this matter? 
Is the Attorney-General aware that there has been quite a deal of publicity in Queensland in recent days about claims made by the State Government that people would be better off if there were a Queensland divorce court? Did the Queensland Government reject an invitation to establish a State family court when the Family Law Act was first passed? When did the Queensland Government change its mind and make known its interest in a State family court? What is the current state of negotiations between the Queensland and Commonwealth governments regarding the establishment of a State family court in Queensland? 
I welcome the opportunity to continue this debate because it is important to all Queenslanders, not just to those who are of Aboriginal descent. I find it extraordinary that the Opposition should have pursued the sort of tactics it has pursued today and those it pursued in the other place. A couple of weeks ago, I along with some other Government supporters was required to explain to people why we were not complying with the demand of the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Hayden,  for a recall of Parliament so that we could rush some legislation through by 31 March. We were being asked to rush legislation through three or four days after the demand was made. The Government was supposed to have drafted its legislation, recalled Parliament and put the legislation through this place in three or four days. 
Some people find it difficult to understand why that is not a very easy exercise. Given the time we have, the facts are these: It is now some years since the Uniting Church indicated in Queensland its concern about the State Government's intentions in relation to Aurukun and Mornington Island. It is some months since the State Government indicated that it would probably take over the Aurukun and Mornington Island reserves. It is some weeks since the Federal spokesmen, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  indicated that if the State Government pursued that course the Federal Government would step in and legislate as it is doing in the case of this Bill. To talk now about being unaware or of a lack of indication is nonsense. Those who say that this Bill ought to go to other bodies have had time to say that but have not done so. Now that the Bill is before the Parliament they say it ought to go to other places. I deny that that is a valid claim. The intentions of the Government have been spelt out for some dme. 
I cannot remember for some time an issue raising the sort of public comment and debate and detailed media attention that this particular issue has raised. It has received enormous media publicity. Millions of words have been written in the newspapers about the issue and about the Bill and what it contains. Even before Government supporters knew what was in the Bill we could read about it in the newspapers in the same way as members of the Opposition could. The intention of the Government has been clear. Government supporters and members of the Opposition have had the Bill for long enough to decide how they feel towards it. The Opposition has to make clear what it really believes ought to be done and not try to shuffle the Bill sideways to some other group, using that as the next step in the political process. 
The whole issue in this debate both within the Parliament and outside it is what will happen to the people concerned. I have the duty of representing the views of the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island. Their views are something of which I must take serious note. I have done so. My overall conclusion, as someone who has looked at the situation and has been involved in it, is that we must do everything we can with the maximum amount of goodwill to make sure that the Aboriginal people do not suffer through the inevitable political consequences of what we are forced to do here. It is easy for  Senator Gietzelt  to talk about Canberra bashing. I remind him that when his Party was in government there was a fair amount of Queensland bashing. Under any guise the Whitlam Government believed that it could pursue policies detrimental to Queensland and other States as long as it dressed them up in the rhetoric of anti Bjelke-Petersen. 
That is not good enough on this issue. The issue is about people who certainly understand what is going on in terms of the difference between having their missions run by the church with the assistance of the Federal Government and having them run by the State Government. They understand that. They are articulate about it. They can spell it out. What they do not understand are some of the finer- that is a misnomer, let us say some of the more sophisticated- and sometimes more objectionable attitudes of politics. These people understand truth and they understand lies. They understand right and wrong. They do not understand how the white man carries on the business of government through political machinations. 
Please speak for yourself. They know what they want. We have said that we would introduce this legislation for them. They expect it to be done. The ins and outs of the manoeuvring on the public stage is something which they are not even interested in trying to understand. For them it is only a matter of what is their will, what they want and how they will be affected. The great tragedy about Canberra bashing or Queensland bashing or whatever is, of course, that these people who are not participants in that little political manoeuvre are the very ones who stand to lose or gain. We stand to lose or gain very little compared with what is at stake for them in relation to their welfare. It is a matter of urgency that we should proceed with the Bill and that we should take unto ourselves the responsibilities we have as members of parliament.  Senator Gietzelt  indicated that we were trying to treat it as a matter of urgency for some nefarious reason. I point out to  Senator Gietzelt  that it is not only a matter of urgency but also a matter of good faith, of keeping faith with the Aboriginal people in relation to what we have said repeatedly over recent weeks we would do and what we have promised we would do. We have informed them of the timetable. We have said that we would move quickly because they feel an urgency in relation to funding and their legal position. We must keep faith with what we have said. 
On Wednesday of last week a number of Aboriginal people on the Aurukun and Mornington Island reserves believed that the Government had breached faith. They did not hold that belief on good grounds because they were misinformed, as many of us were misinformed, about the actual agreement between the Queensland and Federal Governments. They had believed an undertaking which had been given to them by a Federal Minister, a Prime Minister and other members of the Government. They had believed that we would move immediately to attempt to protect them from a State Government takeover which they clearly did not want. When it looked as though a compromise situation was being reached they did not understand. The telegrams started to flow in to us very quickly expressing their alarm and dismay. They believed that we had broken faith. Fortunately, within 24 hours, that situation was clarified, and we must not now break the faith that we have given to them. 
Yesterday in the Queensland Parliament the State Minister for Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement made a speech on the subject of the takeover. I do not intend to debate the whole of his speech, but I think some of the statements that have been made ought to be entered into the record of this debate. One thing that Queenslanders certainly are finding very confusing about the matter is that the State Government keeps on saying that it moved into the Aurukun and Mornington Island reserves only because the people there were requesting that it do that. In his speech yesterday  Mr Porter  made reference to that matter, and he made certain statements. I have here copies of some documents, including a copy of that speech made by  Mr Porter,  and a copy of some correspondence and other documents which relate, firstly, to this matter of whether the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island reserves wanted the State Government to take over their missions; secondly, whether the churches wanted the State Government to take over the missions; and, thirdly, just what it is that the State Government, the Aborigines and the churches have been saying to one another. I shall refer to a few of these documents in order to get their contents on the record. During his speech  Mr Porter  mentioned a series of dates. He said: 
As far back as 1973 Cabinet had expressed its concern with an unsatisfactory management situation at Aurukun. Again in 1974 the church was informed of further Cabinet concern with the two communities in question, and that the position was so bad we - 
That is the Queensland Government-  were prepared to assume forthwith the management role. Church assurances were again given, and  so  our action was deferred. The situation had reached a crisis point where, in February, 1976, my predecessor - 
That is,  Mr Porter  's predecessor-  the  Hon.  Claude Wharton, MLA, and his Director - 
That is, The Director of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement-  visited Aurukun accompanied by both the ModeratorGeneral of the Presbyterian Church of Australia, the Rev. P. Wood, and the Senior Secretary of  Boemar,  the Rev. John Brown. 
At the pressing request of the church - 
This is in February 1 976-  it was at length agreed we would defer assuming management from the church for a further 12-months period, giving the church a final opportunity to provide effective management. But if there was not the promised improvement, we would then have to act. That period had to be further extended late last year owing to litigation concerning mining . . . 

 Mr Porter went on further to talk about the feelings of the Aboriginal people and said: 
On 18 November, 1975, the Aurukun people's elected council, five in number, personally requested the Department to assume management of the Aurukun community, and after full discussion and a verbal approach to the Director on that day they then confirmed their request by presentation of a formal letter. 
I understand that there were circumstances at the time relating to the administration of the reserves which were causing some divisions within the community and which were making them unhappy. The church itself indicates that there was a period when it had some problems in terms of a turnover of management and that there were some difficulties between the managers or staff and the other people on the mission. Apparently the date of 18 November 1975 falls within that period when there was some unhappiness at Aurukun in relation to that matter. Further on in his speech  Mr Porter  said: 
We had received a letter dated 13 November - 
He does not indicate the year but I assume it was 1975-  from the council and also a petition signed by more than 200 residents, asking for our action. 

 Mr Porter then quoted from that letter which states: 
We need the strength of the DAIA to stand behind the manager and council, then the people will listen to us and do as they are told. 
The next date that the Minister mentioned was February 1 976.  Mr Porter  said: 
As a promise had been given to visit the people within a short period, the Director organised the full meeting in February, 1976 . . . However, continued verbal approaches both individually and in group were made by the Aurukun people at the time and after, asking that we take back administrative control of the area. 
In mid- 1976 a State parliamentary group visited Aurukun. Referring to that visit  Mr Porter  makes this statement: 
Members were shocked at the deplorable conditions prevailing, it was reported the people were 'generally apathetic, listless and uncommunicative whilst basic rules of hygiene and decency had obviously been dumped for something euphemistically called self-determination . 

 Mr Porter gives no indication in his speech of the source from which he is quoting. He may be quoting from some report that that parliamentary group submitted to the Queensland Government; I do not know. He does not indicate the source from which that quote comes. Nevertheless, it is interesting to note the sentiment expressed in mid- 1976, on what one presumes to be the outstation movement- 'something euphemistically called self-determination '. 
The speech contains other quotes and references to reports made. Not all of them are dated, so I shall leave them alone. The next significant date  Mr Porter  mentions in his statement in relation to this dispute is 30 December 1977. He said: 
On 30 December, 1977, we received a letter signed by five members of the Aboriginal Community Council reading: 
We, the undersigned members of the Aurukun Community Council, have, after extensive talks with the members of the community of Aurukun, found that it is the people's wish to remain under the administration of the Uniting Church of Australia. 

 Mr Porter went on to say: 
That was the first statement ever received from or made on behalf of the Aurukun peoples expressing any sort of wish to retain the Uniting Church managements. I do not find it any coincidence that in the  Courier-Mail  of 8 December, the Reverend John Brown of Boemar, was quoted in a statement headed 'No State Take-over of Aurukun- Aborigines'. The Reverend Brown was careful to say that 'he was at Aurukun at the time of the meeting but did not attend it'. 
That refers to the State Government's attitude. That speech gives some dates and some indication that requests were made to the State Government that the State Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement should take over. However, there seems to be a fair gap in the communications which took place between mid- 1976 and 30 September 1977 when the State Government claims it got its first indication that the Aboriginal people did not want the State Government to take over. Without a doubt for some time there had been a bit of resistance from the Church to a State Government take-over.  Mr Porter  mentioned that. There was also a growing resistance on the part of the Aboriginal people to a take-over by the State Department. There are a number of letters relevant to this which I also wish to place on the record. I will not read some of them. I may ask for some to be incorporated in  Hansard.  Although I have not shown them to you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I think you can accept that the correspondence between the Uniting Church in Australia, the head of the Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement and the Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement is at least in a fit state to go into  Hansard.  For the benefit of honourable senators I will quote some of the letters so that they will know what is in them. One such letter is dated 30 December 1 977 and it was referred to by  Mr Porter.  It is from the Secretary of the Synod to the Minister and it states: 
I write to advise that the Queensland Synod of the Uniting Church in Australia has given considerable thought and attention to its relationship to the people of Aurukun. The following decision was adopted by the Synod- Synod adopts as pre-conditions for any negotiations to return the administration of Aurukun to the Government that- 
The Uniting Church in Australia would abide by the expressed will of the Aurukun Community, determined by a means yet to be devised, but which can be seen to guarantee free expression by the community. 
The rights of those groups - 
This is critical-  desiring to live on and work their tribal lands within the boundaries of the reserve be recognised, and that the Government accepts the responsibility of maintaining essential services such as medical, educational, communication and supplies, in consultation with the groups. 
The role of the Church within the community be defined to the satisfaction of the Church, and that the freedom of the Church to appoint staff sufficient for that role be guaranteed by the Government. 
That letter covers essentially what the dispute or difference of opinion between the Aurukun people, the Church and the State Department has been all about, that is, the will of the local people, how that is read and whether one can claim to have read it. Secondly, it is about tribal land rights which are, of course, significant in relation to the outstations. I will say something later in my speech on the subject of the philosophy of Aboriginal advancement and development because there is division of attitudes on philosophy between the State Department and the Uniting Church. Probably there is also a division of philosophy between the State Government and the Federal Government on this issue and central to it. At this stage I make the statement that I believe that the critical issue to the Aurukun people is whether they feel they can possibly live under State departmental control, although there are other issues too. The Uniting Church received a reply in a letter dated 27 January, one month later, from  Mr Porter.  He said: 
I refer to your letter of 30th December 1 977, received during my recent absence from Brisbane concerning a decision adopted by your Synod in relation to the people of Aurukun. The views of your Synod as expressed in this decision have been noted and you can be assured that in all matters affecting the Aurukun community and indeed any Aboriginal Community in Queensland, the welfare and interests of community residents is and will continue to be of paramount consideration. 
That letter did not answer in any way the specific points raised by the Church. Undoubtedly, in its own way, it contributed to the growing concern within the Church and on those two missions about the Queensland Government's intentions. Another letter to the Uniting Church in Australia dated 18 November 1977 from the Aurukun Council stated:   . . after extensive talks with the members of the Community of Aurukun, found that it is the people's wish to remain under the administration of the Uniting Church of Australia. We would therefore appreciate it if you would pass this to the Synod of North Queensland, along with our thanks for their support. We look forward to working together in the future. 
The letter was signed by the five members of the Council. 
Some months ago there was a growing concern about the State Government's intentions. I think there was almost a tacit acceptance that it may have been possible to work with the State Government providing certain basic undertakings were given in relation to the wishes of the Aboriginal people and how they wanted their community developed. One very serious stumbling block in this matter was the philosophy towards the development of the Aboriginal communities. 
The future of the Aborigine in the Australian community is a question which exercises our minds very seriously. In recent years there has been a growing awareness on the part of Aborigines and of other Australians that it is important that we preserve as much of Aboriginal culture as we can at this point in our history. This is important to Aborigines and it is important to us. It is important to this country's national development. The growing confidence and pride that the Aboriginal people feel about their culture, heritage and race is something which growing numbers of other Australians have indicated as something which is good and justified. I hope we can assist Aboriginals in the difficult task of finding how they can come to terms with what is left of their culture- I am afraid that at this stage it is a damaged culture- their race and their Australianism. This is something we should hope to do together. 
Nobody has the magic blueprint as to how this is to be done. Even in terms of this country 's brief history the attempts to achieve it are very recent. Many experiments are under way. Many people of good will, both white and black, are attempting to find the answers as to how that situation can be reconciled. I think all of us agree that it is unlikely that there is one answer. The Aboriginal people in the first place, with us giving whatever support and assistance we can, will work towards a multiplicity of answers in different areas. At this stage many experiments are under way and there are many attempts to try to meet that very important cultural and historical need. 
In that context, the people of Aurukun, with the assistance and support of the Uniting Church, have embarked on a particular experiment which is related to their culture and tribal land-that is, of course, what is referred to as the out station movement. They decided they wanted to have a particular sort of relationship with their tribal lands and to give all their people the opportunity to have that relationship if they so chose. They were supported in that direction by the Uniting Church. It did not indicate to them that they ought to do that but it certainly in no way attempted to prevent them from doing it. However, in that endeavour the Church, as manager of the reserves, came into direct conflict with the attitude of the Queensland Government. To give some indication of the respective attitudes, again I will quote from correspondence between the State Department, the Church and some other groups. In a letter dated 25 August 1975 addressed to the superintendent of the Board of Ecumenical Mission and Relations in Sydney the Director of the Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement,  Mr Killoran,  stated: 
I am also required to advise that Cabinet - 
That is, the Queensland Cabinet-  in the course of its considerations, has expressed concern at the apparent intent by BOEMAR in its capacity as a management authority to develop the communities under a philosophy inconsistent with Queensland 's established policies. 
There in black and white is a statement from the State Director that the development of those missions was inconsistent with the Queensland Government's established philosophy. In a reply from  Mr Brown  to  Mr Killoran  dated 12 September 1 975 there is this statement: 
I am somewhat puzzled by your letter, especially the third paragraph. In this paragraph you indicate that the Cabinet is concerned at the apparent intent by BOEMAR to develop the communities under a philosophy inconsistent with Queensland's established policies. 
I am interested to know which particular policies of the Queensland Government our philosophy is inconsistent with. 
That is a reasonable reply. In a reply on 31 October  Mr Killoran  indicated that he and  Mr Brown  had had discussions of a verbal nature. He stated: 
I feel it was beneficial for us to have had the opportunity of general discussions when you visited Brisbane recently, and 1 write now to confirm that, as I conveyed you on that occasion, the philosophies you espouse as set out in the papers attached to your letter of 12 September do not have relevance to matters raised in my communication of 25 August, which refer to the responsibility devolving on the Presbyterian Church of Queensland with regard to its management of the reserves in terms of the appropriate Order in Council. 
The promotion of policy issues of the Church is considered to be a totally separate issue from its responsibilities as a management authority, and I therefore seek confirmation of willingness to accept and in fact, exercise managerial responsibility in terms of the Order in Council and in accordance with Queensland 's policy. 
That is a letter of October 1975.  Mr Brown  replied on 13 November 1975. Part of that letter stated: 
I also reaffirm that the Presbyterian Church will continue to work by all means available to us for changes in the policies of the Government of Queensland and the Australian Government where those policies are in conflict with those adopted by our Church. 
So the Church is on record as saying that it did not agree with the Queensland Government's attitude and that it would work for the change of the Government's policies. Anybody in the community is entitled to do that. A further letter from  Mr Killoran  in July 1976 starts to spell out just what are those differences in philosophy about which the Queensland Cabinet was feeling concerned. It states: 
I write concerning some disquieting information conveyed to me recently in connection with what is described as an Aurukun decentralisation programme' apparently being fostered and encouraged at Aurukun under which numbers of people would move to the Edward River reserve in an endeavour to settle certain areas of land with which some traditional affiliations would be claimed . . . 
This strategy appears closely similar to the 'Land Rights' philosophies conceived through a commission given  Mr Justice  Woodward . . . 
There are of course certain legal restraints governing access to and residence on Reserves but it seems that a remedy could best be achieved through counselling within the terms of your managerial responsibility at Aurukun. If, contrary to Queensland Government policy, such a programme is being developed, radiating from Aurukun the advocacy of traditional land settlement then immediate action should be taken to conform with Queensland policy and familiarise the Aboriginal Council and people as to the illegality and social inadvisability of the decentralisation proposals. 
So by mid- 1976, nearly two years ago, that conflict was starting to become very explicit indeed. I should like to have incorporated in  Hansard  the reply to  Mr Killoran  by  Mr Brown,  a letter of 4 August 1 976. 1 ask for it to be incorporated because it is all important in this debate but it is a rather long letter- two pages- and it would take some time to read it out. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 4th August 1976 

 Mr P. J. Killoran Director 
Aboriginal and Islander Advancement 135-147 George Street, BRISBANE 4000 
Dear  Mr Killoran,  1 am writing in response to your letter of 1 6 July 1 976 concerning decentralisation. 
Some groups currently living in Aurukun township have for several years desired and sought a means of returning to their tribal lands. 
Almost all of these lands are within the Aurukun reserve and so far as we are aware the move is to return to those lands and not to infringe on neighbouring reserves. 
The decentralisation plan is integrated with the Aurukun cattle industry. Just as I was told during my brief visit with you to Kowanyama that there are many cattle outstations from Kowanyama, the proposal is that family groups will manage cattle on their traditional land under an overall integrated management scheme. 
Concerning your claim that some groups are desiring to settle on the Edward River Reserve, I wish to draw your attention to earlier correspondence between yourself and our office over the confusion relating to the incorrect gazetting of the boundary between Aurukun and Edward River Reserves in 1958, and to your admission that the boundary had indeed been incorrectly gazetted. 
We have no desire or intention to settle people on the Edward River Reserve, and will discourage the same. But we do request that the boundaries be re-gazetted so that people living at Aurukun may relate freely and without hindrance to their own traditional lands south of the Holroyd River and north of Christmas Creek. 
Your letter in paragraph 4 is somewhat incomprehensible to us. There is no strategy. All there is is a group of people wanting to go back and live in proximity to and make use of their traditional lands. Decentralisation and return to home lands pre-dated  Mr Justice  Woodward's commission by a decade. A dozen groups have left Yirrkala and returned to their own land down the coast. Hermannsburg has completely decentralised and groups of people who formerly lived at Hermannsburg are now living on their own lands with support from Hermannsburg mission staff. Fifteen years ago 100 people left Ernabella and set up a small settlement 45 miles south and they have been supported in this move by our Board. This move was also related to the cattle industry in the area. Over the past three years, 40 Mowanjum people have lived for most of the time 120 miles away from Mowanjum on their traditional lands- again in relation to the cattle industry. 
You refer several times to Queensland Government policy. We would be grateful if you will spell out for us what the Government's policy is on the rights of Aborigines to return to live on their traditional lands currently held as reserves. 
You refer to the illegality of people decentralising. Is it illegal for people from Aurukun to live permanently or temporarily on other parts of the reserve besides the Aurukun township? 
As far as the social inadvisability is concerned, I believe the program presents more hope for social integration, fulfilment and adjustments than does life in the townships. None of the decentralised groups at Hermannsburg, Yirrkala, Mowanjum, Ernabella has any major social problems much as Alcoholism or gambling as is common in the townships. It contrasts remarkably with life on almost all Aboriginal settlements in Australia. 
I hope that this clarifies the issue and look forward to your action to have the boundaries of the Aurukun-Edward River Reserves regazetted in line with the agreement which existed up until 1968, i.e. that the boundary be based on Christmas Creek. 
Because a request has been sent by some people from Aurukun to the Department of Aboriginal Affairs for financial support to enable them to decentralise, I am sending a copy of your letter and this reply to the Director, Department of Aboriginal Affairs, Brisbane. 
Yours faithfully, JOHN P. BROWN Superintendent 
I thank the Senate. At this stage I indicate to members of the Senate who have not seen the letter that in it  Mr Brown  spelt out to  Mr Killoran  the details of the sort of activities that were taking place at Aurukun. He made a number of points which are very much relevant and which do not in any way skirt the issue. For the purpose of this debate at the moment I pick out the eighth point that is made in this letter.  Mr Brown  said: 
You refer to the illegality of people decentralising. Is it illegal for people from Aurukun to live permanently or temporarily on other parts of the reserve besides the Aurukun township? 
So far as anyone was concerned, it was not illegal. The next letter to which I should like to refer briefly is a letter of 4 November 1976, again to the Director of the Department of Aboriginal and Islander Advancement, this time written by  Mr Wood, Chairman  of the Board and Moderator-General of the then Presbyterian Church. He referred to a statement by the Minister in an annual report to Parliament and took issue with certain of the statements in it. He wrote: 
I refer particularly to your statement: 
It is unfortunate to note that the zeal for pastoral care has, in many instances, been replaced by a philosophy of materialism and political bias. The result is proof of the simple statement that 'man does not live by bread alone ', and this is instanced by a marked decline in the moral and physical standards of some communities. 
Community residents have been left without spiritual resorts and guidance that is a basic necessity for any human beings. 
Those statements are just untrue. The contribution of the Presbyterian Church, in the first instance, and the Uniting Church, to those missions have been substantial. They have been funded at a level lower than the average funding for other State Government reserves in Queensland and the Uniting Church has had to put in quite a large amount of money to maintain basic standards. So to suggest that the Church has brought in a philosophy of materialism and political bias is grossly unfair. If there was a decline in standards then governments must take some responsibility for that because in the first instance they have a clear responsibility for standards in certain areas and, secondly, these communities were not being funded at the same rate as other State Government communities. I seek leave to have that letter incorporated in  Hansard  because there are other parts that are relevant to that contentious issue which I do not want to cover specifically at the moment. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 4th November 1976 
The Director 
Aboriginal &amp; Islanders Advancement, 135- 147 George Street BRISBANE 4000 
Dear  Mr Killoran, 
When we read the report of  Mr Wharton's  Annual Report to Parliament in the daily press, we thought that he may have been misrepresented and thought that the press may have been distorting the statements he made about 'the churches'. We did not think that the Minister or his Director would make a statement that took no notice of facts but seemed interested only in distortion of the truth, apparently for political gain. 
However, we have now received a copy of your letter to  Mr Wharton  introducing your Annual Report to State Parliament on Tuesday 19th October 1976. It is clear from this that the press has given an accurate report. 

 Sir, we are appalled at the innuendoes, the distortions and the obvious blatant attempts to discredit the Church apparently because we have stood strongly for truth and justice in Aboriginal affairs in your State. 
You do not name the Presbyterian Church, but since we are the group with heaviest involvement in Aboriginal affairs in your State, it is obvious that it is to us that you are referring. 
I refer particularly to your statement: 
It is unfortunate to note that the zeal for pastoral care has, in many instances, been replaced by a philosophy of materialism and political bias. The result is proof of the simple statement that "man does not live by bread alone", and this is instanced by a marked decline in the moral and physical standards of some communities. 
Community residents have been left without spiritual resorts and guidance that is a basic necessity for any human beings. 
At the same time the Aboriginal community is seen as a fertile field for social experimentation and investigation that would not be tolerated by any other sector of the population, and it is a pity that many of those involved do not consider they are dealing with people who are immensely sensitive and require the advantages of stability and time rather than the status of social "guinea pigs ". ' 
In case you are interested in the facts in spite of your preparedness to make such a generalised unfactual statement, please be advised that this Board has over the past two years spent a total of $245,880 on the pastoral care of Aboriginal communities. Of this, no less than $79,000 was spent on the training of Aboriginal ministers. 
Furthermore, over the past three years we have relieved pastors in Aboriginal communities of all other responsibilities to enable them to concentrate wholly on the pastoral care of the people. 
Your statements that we have neglected the pastoral care of the people do not stand up. Nor can we accept the allegations that support for groups of people returning to their land is a 'white man's experimentation'. No one is trying anything out. People want to return to their land and are doing so. It is not an attempt to have people return to the situation of 200 years ago. But people have a right to relate to the dominant white society as they will- and if they desire to do so from the security of their own land, with all its cultural associations and strengths, why should they be hindered in their desire to do so? 
Yours faithfully, G.A.WOOD 
Chairman of the Board and Moderator General 
I thank the Senate. 
There is a quote from  Mr Wharton's  report and then there is argument. 
If I may explain them, I made an initial statement from a State department report which made certain allegations against the then Presbyterian Church. The letter just answers those allegations in relation to whether pastoral care was provided or whatever. I do not know whether it is in order for the Senate perhaps to have the document incorporated subject to  Senator Keeffe's  consent. These are letters which have been made available days ago by the Uniting Church to a large number of people. This is correspondence with which many people are familiar. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Maunsell)- Senator Martin  explained earlier in her speech what these documents contained. She said she had not shown them to anybody but explained what they were about and she has been granted leave to have them incorporated. 

 - Senator Keeffe was not here when I explained what I intended to do. 
I believe that, because certain accusations have been made in the Queensland State Parliament about the Uniting Church and about the Aborigines at Aurukun and Mornington Island,  Hansard  ought to contain the facts relating to those allegations. I explained that earlier in my speech and indicated that I did not want to read all the correspondence but that I would be seeking to have some incorporated in order to save time. I said I would pick out specific instances and the parts that I particularly wanted to cover in my speech; other honourable senators will want to cover other aspects of this correspondence in their speeches. At the moment I am selecting those parts which are relevant to the outstation movement. There are other allegations relating to the Aborigines and the Uniting Church which will be covered. It will save other honourable senators having to read through the same correspondence in the course of their speeches if this course is followed. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTCarry on with your speech  Senator Martin.  Leave was granted. 
I have been indicating in my speech that over a period of a couple of years at least there had been some disputation between the Queensland State Government and the Presbyterian Church- later the Uniting Church-in relation to the philosphy for Aboriginal development, and specifically on the reserve of Aurukun. There had been quite some correspondence on the subject of the development of the outstation movement on tribal lands. Therefore, a letter dated 24 February 1978 from  Mr Killoran  to the manager of Aurukun Station is a mild surprise. It was in reply to an earlier letter of 14 February from the manager to the director, which read: 
As you are already fully aware, there are a number of outstation communities at Aurukun. They are involved in getting normal community facilities established- housing, water supplies, airstrips, stores, etc. Some but not all are interested in cattle work. 
Machinery such as water pumps, generating units, vehicles are necessary for outstations community maintenance. 
That was in response to what appeared to be a routine request. In his reply  Mr Killoran  said: 
Contrary to your letter of 14 February 1978, I am not aware that a number of outstation communities exist at Aurukun. 
Please detail fully and urgently the number of such outstations being encouraged to develop, the population of each, their distance from the essential social facilities and services of school, hospital, water, hygiene disposal, etc. and any other relevant details. 
The issue of whether or not there were outstations at Aurukun was already very clear. What is also clear from that letter is that the State department was gearing up for a propagands war on the subject of whether it ought to take over the church reserves so that it could stop the outstation movement. I also have a letter of 7 March 1978 from  Mr Coutts,  the community's administrative officer of Boemar to the director detailing fully just what the facilities at the outstations were. I ask that that be incorporated. It is a reasonably long letter and is a statement of fact which shows exactly what the situation on those outstations was. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Dear  Mr Killoran, 
Aurukun Outstations Your References: 6A/22, 6A/3 1 
I note your letter of 24 February, 1978, to the Manager, Aurukun. I cannot detail fully the information you require, as such information is not held in this office. As the Manager is on furlough at the moment, I will detail what I can. 
Several families who have tribal relationships to the land are living at Peret, Ti-Tree and on the north and south banks of the Kendall River. The communities are being serviced from Aurukun by boat and by air. All communities are equipped with radio and have regular radio schedules with Aurukun. Nurses aides have been trained by the hospital for first aid for each centre. Water is available at each centre, and each has been responsible for its own sanitation. 
There are two itinerant teachers who prepare school material for use of children on the outstations. These itinerant teachers keep these children abreast of what is happening within the Aurukun school, and the children are treated as pupils of that school. Some assistance has been given to these groups of people by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, who have provided a tractor for Tri-Tree and some working costs for each group. I believe there has been talk of further tractors for other groups, and perhaps a launch of a suitable nature for one group who would feel that it would be more suitable for their purposes. 
I shall endeavour to get actual numbers of each group for you and let you have them in the near future. 
One advantage that can be seen by some of these families of living out on their own land is that inter-family tensions at Aurukun seem to be much reduced. 
The reason I have spent so much time on that issue is because it has been claimed by certain Queensland members of Parliament that the Aborigines at those places will say to you what they believe you wish to hear. A few days ago a number of Federal back bench members from Queensland had the opportunity of going to Aurukun and Mornington Island. I was one of that group. We spoke to a large number of people at both missions. We spoke to the Community Councils, the groups of Aborigines elected by the Aborigines to run, in cooperation with the Uniting Church, the affairs of the Aboriginal community. We spoke at public meetings attended on each occasion by several hundred people, and once the people were gathered together we took the opportunity to speak to as many individuals, on a private basis, as we could. We got a completely unanimous view, from those that took advantage of access to us, that they wanted the Federal Government to step in so that the church could keep administering those missions. 
It becomes difficult when one makes that statement to Queenslanders when there are also members of the State Parliament saying: 'Yes, but when we go there they say something quite different. ' I have here a transcript of an address to the Aurukun community and staff by the Honourable C. R. Porter, Queensland 's Minister for Aboriginal and Islander Affairs, and  Mr P.  J. Killoran, director of the Department, on Wednesday, 15 March 1978. Apparently a tape recording was made of their speeches, and of a question and answer period which followed. I am not going to ask that it be incorporated. It is a rather lengthy document. I shall seek leave to table it and will then quote some sections of it. 
It is rather lengthy and I do not think there would be much purpose in incorporating it; there are a lot of other details there also. I merely seek leave to table it for the information of honourable senators. 
Leave granted. 

 - Mr Porter and  Mr Killoran  each made a speech. Then they conducted a question and answer session. Apparently the tape recorder did not satisfactorily pick up the question on outstations because there appears m brackets the word 'inaudible'.  Mr Porter  replied: 
I presume, of course, that you mean the people who have gone from the community here out into the back country to live; is that the idea, what do we feel about that? I have said to you that there will be no sudden changes when we take over. You will have to work out what you want to do. If you ask me if I think it is a good idea to do that, I must say, in all honesty, I do not. I think it presents special problems for children and I think the idea that peoples can go back to lands which can no longer be effectively hunted and lived on, and try and pretend that you're living in some sort of- how shall I say it?- some son of hand-down from the old days, I think that this is a dream which may cost some people dearly. But that is my view, and I am saying to you that the management that takes over as from 1st April will not enforce any sudden changes on you. What we will hope is to see how you regard these things as time goes by. If then it is proven that lam wrong and others are right, then the system of course will continue. But if you wish to change it then it will be changed. 
This happened after some years of correspondence in which the director, over and over again, had indicated that this particular situation of the outstations, to which the question was directed, was something which the Queensland Government had said specifically was contrary to government philosophy. The Aboriginal people knew that and it was their great fear that the Government's philosophy would be enforced on the Aurukun mission; that they would lose their outstations. Whilst  Mr Porter  may have given some indication that if the people wanted to keep them, they would be able to do so, they genuinely feared that 'as time went by '-as  Mr Porter  put it-they would be persuaded to take a different view. Further, in reply to another inaudible question concerning decentralisation and 'you people going out',  Mr Porter  said: 
I say to you that it will not be prevented when the management is taken over. But I say to you again, that if you asked me about it, I do not believe that it is in your best long-term interests, but you're going to have to work that out, not me. That's your problem, and it will be a problem that you will resolve with the manager who will be here at the time. If you think that this is the best way to try and return somehow to the past, try it. Perhaps it will be best for you to learn by trial and error- I don't know, but I can only say to you that there will be no abrupt changes in the way in which things are done. 
The transcript of that meeting indicates, because of the continual reiteration of questions on this subject of 'what is going to happen about our outstations', that the people were in fact very unhappy. There are also other questions there relating to bauxite and mining generally. There is no indication at any stage in that transcript- which may not be complete but is I believe genuine; there was a breakdown of the tape at one stage- of support for the State Government's attitude. So I do not believe that the State Government can claim that it has recently been given by the people of Mornington Island and Aurukun any indication of support for its takeover. The indications of support for that were given some three years ago when there were particular management difficulties. There is nothing recent in that regard. 
The issue is clear. The Aborigines do not want the State Department to take over. They believe that the philosophy of that Department and the Government of Queensland is hostile to something that they are attempting to achieve in relation to their development and culture; and nobody is to say that they are wrong. We do not know. We shall not know if it is not tried. They are happy with it as it is working at the moment. The lands involved in the outstations are in many cases sacred as well as tribal. They believe that the connection between those lands and the significance of them to their culture is something that they must maintain. For many of them it is only a brief contact through the course of the year. For others it is something more substantial. But the fact that it is there is important enough. We can think of many parallels in our own culture be they monuments, memorials or even graveyards or crematoriums which are important to us, but with which we choose not to have constant contact. We choose our own form of contact. I think that is an experiment that at least ought to be tried. One can well understand the extreme alarm that the Aboriginal people of Aurukun felt when they believed that they would be prevented from doing that. 
I am glad that the Government has indicated it will allow Aborigines on every mission in Queensland to indicate whether they want a Federal Government takeover. I have been acquainted with some concern on the part of Aborigines on government mission stations in Queensland about a Federal Government takeover. I am not happy about the basis for their concern. I have some evidence that the reason for their concern is that certain State department officials are telling them that if the Federal Government were to take over those State reserves they would lose their houses, stores, shops, farming facilities, machinery and so on. 
It is totally disgraceful to manipulate those people in that way. It is also totally untrue. These people have assets on the missions which they have built up and of which they are proud, just as we are proud of our homes, assets and facilities. They are being terrorised in effect by certain individual members of the State Department into believing that if the Federal Government were to take over their reserves they would literally lose all. That clearly is not the Federal Government's intention, and it will take time for the people on the reserves to realise that some people are lying to them in a most disgraceful way. 
I am not aware of the services to which the honourable senator is referring. I understand that the houses now are built with Federal funds although they are on State crown land. A pottery on one of the reserves which the Aborigines were told would be taken away from them was built with Federal funds although it is on State crown land. Quite a number of services and assets have been provided from Federal funds, but that is not the case in respect of all services. There has been a considerable State Government investment in the reserves over the years. There may be many profound and difficult questions to be answered in respect of services and assets and what will happen with the land. To tell these people that they will lose their land, their farms and their homes when there is absolutely no justification for it is just another attempt to terrify them into supporting the State Government and into appearing to be anti-Federal Government. Those people will make up their own minds. I do not quarrel with the decisions that they are making at the moment, not at all; time will tell. But it will be incumbent on this Government and all future governments to make sure that they keep faith with the Aborigines on those reserves where it is invited in. 
One of the problems is that there has been a lower average expenditure on a per capita basis at Aurukun and Mornington Island by various governments, but notably the State Government, than on other reserves. I think that the Federal Government will have to face the fact that certain facilities on these two reserves are clearly of a lower standard than they are on some other State Government reserves and that the position will have to be rectified by the expenditure of funds. 
I say now, as I said at the beginning of my speech, that it is deplorable that the Aboriginal people should be caught in the sort of unsavoury political tussle, huffing and puffing and propaganda exercise that is going on in public and apparently in private in State government missions at the moment. The people are confused and upset. It is disgraceful that those who are in a position of influence and power over their opinions would so blatantly use that position of power and influence to terrify them with statements which could not in any way be claimed to be based on truth. In fact, we all realise that in the coming days, weeks, months- probably years- we will see some difficulties between the Queensland State Government and the Federal Government over the provisions of this Bill. Although the State Government has not yet said anything specific about what action it will take it has certainly been posturing in a very aggressive way and we can expect it will take some sort of action contrary to what we are taking here today. If there is a confrontation between the governments the only people who stand to really lose are the Aborigines. It is incumbent on all of us to meet a test of goodwill on the part of both Federal and State governments, and all other interested groups and parties outside the Parliament who could influence the opinions of these people and the course of events. If we leap into a confrontation of the sort that appears to be building up surely the only result will be a disillusioned and saddened Aboriginal race. The Aborigines depend on us to assist them. Of course we cannot protect them from all things. We cannot protect them from the consequences of the sort of conflict about which I am talking, whatever those consequences might be. But we must try. 
I would like to appeal to all Queenslanders, whether they be in the State Parliament or outside, to proceed with goodwill, to put division and rivalry aside and to realise that if they are genuine in their attempt to help the Aboriginal people they will aggravate the situation by taking aggressive public stands on issues which- in the total context of the Aborigines problem- are really not issues of consequence. 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral whether he has received a telegram from the Association of Civil Marriage Celebrants of Australia regarding problems that have been created by the amendments to the Marriage Act which have been effective since June 1977. Is the Attorney-General aware that the members of the executive of the Association of Civil Marriage Celebrants have stated that they receive on average four reports of hardship per week caused by these amendments and that many of the couples involved are elderly people, some of whom are in their seventies? What comment can the Attorney-General offer on their suggestion that a statistical analysis should have been undertaken on the likely effect of the amendments and their belief that there is no proof available to suggest that a couple who give three days notice, as was required in Victoria prior to 1961, have any greater risk of marriage breakdown than another couple who give 40 days notice? 
I direct a question to  Senator Carrick  in his capacity as Minister for Education and possibly in his capacity as Minister representing the Treasurer. Has the Minister been acquainted of the fact that a number of university academic staff have recently had their declared expenditure investigated by the Australian Taxation Office and, in many cases, study leave expenditure has been queried? Is the Minister aware that some of these people believe that this investigation by the Taxation Office may be connected with the Government's current inquiry into study leave? Could he inform the Senate whether there is any such connection between the Government's inquiry into study leave and these actions of the Taxation Office? 
I rise to support with some enthusiasm the motion moved by  Senator Bonner.  We ought to be indebted to the Opposition and to  Senator Gietzelt  in particular for his enthusiastic support of the motion because of what it will attempt to achieve. However, I think I ought to take issue with a couple of points raised by  Senator Gietzelt.  One of the first very interesting Bills which was introduced in the Senate after my election in May 1974 was the Family Law Bill 1974. Most of  Senator Gietzelt's  contention is centred around the fact that we want to send a Bill off to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. He claims that we should have been ready to accept the amendments that were put to us, virtually on the run, last week. Those amendments having been rejected, he now finds some inconsistency in our approach. I hark back to the Family Law Bill and I remind  Senator Gietzelt  that the Bill which was introduced in 1974 was the third version which was introduced into the Senate by the then Attorney-General,  Senator Murphy.  The Bill was sent off to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs which recommended 120 amendments. The Bill had been around for quite some time. I understand it had been changed a little. Nevertheless, with all the time and all the opportunity that Labor Party senators undoubtedly had to look at the Bill, that Committee found it necessary to recommend 120 amendments. I just indicate that no government is perfect in that regard. 
We have seen more urgent legislation in the Parliament in recent times which has required additional sitting days of the Senate. I think that honourable senators on the Government side as well as on the Opposition side in the course of debating those pieces of legislation indicated some unhappiness at having to deal with the legislation in that way perforce of circumstances. I certainly said publicly in an interview last weekand others have said so too- that under those circumstances, when legislation comes into the Parliament and must be given passage in just a few days, one can expect to have problems. One can expect that there will be aspects which Parliamentary draftsmen have overlooked or misunderstood and that members of Parliament, looking at the legislation with a fresh perspective, will pick up some of those faults. All honourable senators- both Government and Oppositionwho are present will be aware that when the respective parties were in government those sorts of errors were corrected within Party rooms and in Party committees. When we have emergency legislation the chances are reduced of picking up errors, inconsistencies or undesirable aspects. It is possible that that happened in the case of this legislation. 
I do, however, remind the Senate yet again of something that I said in my speech on the Bill last week. For a number of reasons there was enormous pressure on the Government to move quickly. The State Government had long since indicated that it would cease giving funds to the church on 3 1 March for the purpose of financing those missions at Aurukun and Mornington Island. So that was the first point of great pressure and urgency on the Federal Government, to move to legislate to enable it to act on its constitutional responsibility in respect of those people. I also remind the Senate, and particularly  Senator Gietzelt,  that the week before the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Hayden,  was saying that the Parliament ought to be recalled a week earlier than was planned so as to put through legislation immediately. If we had done that I suggest that there would have been even greater cause for complaint amongst those who now say that the Bill may be deficient. 
I accept that under the sort of circumstances that prevailed the Senate had to get that legislation through by the end of last week to meet a very difficult situation and to keep faith with the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island who had been promised that by the end of last week the Federal Government would have taken that action. Those people would not have understood any sort of delaying tactics at that stage. I accept that it is quite possible that on a re-examination of some of the Opposition 's amendments there may be a case to be made out to amend the Bill, but I do not want to prejudge any suggestions that might be made in relation to amendments to the Bill. It was just unfortunate that the legislation had to be urgent; that the whole situation arose in the way that it did. It was unfortunate that the Government and the Opposition had to take advice on the run in relation to amendments. Nevertheless, I welcome the fact that there really is no disagreement between the Government and the Opposition on the motion now before the Senate and the only complaint apparently is the way in which the amendments were dealt with. 
There is some argument, I understand, about whether a select committee ought to be set up to look at the Bill or whether it would be better to send the Bill to a standing committee such as the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. The Senate of course would encounter some difficulty in manning a committee if we were to set up a select committee. All honourable senators are aware of the considerable pressure on them at present in relation to manning the various committees of the Senate and the various parliamentary committees. I believe that the motion that the Bill should go to this Standing Committee is a wise one. It will of course put additional pressure on that Committee but I understand that its members are prepared to accept it. There is no ideal standing committee to which this matter could go except the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee which does have some natural advantages in that it has a secretariat and members who are used to looking at constitutional matters and examining them. We should expect and hope that this committee would be the one with the experience, the background and knowledge of the Constitution at least to feel confident in that area. Just because this matter is referred to that Select Committee it in no way rules out the opportunity for any other honourable senator who is interested to participate in the Committee. Every honourable senator is entitled to attend public meetings of the Committee, indeed to indulge in crossexamination. The week before last the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts met in Sydney and held some public hearings.  Senator Janine  Haines, who is not a member of that Committee, availed herself of the opportunity, because of her special interest in the subject that the Committee was considering, to cross-examine witnesses. That course is open to any honourable senator. So anybody from the Senate who is not a member of the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee but who does have a keen interest in the subject can of course go along and participate in the proceedings of the Committee. 

 -As Senator Missen who I believe is  Chairman  of the Committee indicates, they would be welcome. We cannot look at the whole subject on the run. There were some points which I think are now relevant which  Senator Gietzelt  raised in relation to the Opposition's amendments. One of the problems in this area is that, as it is now patently clear there are some options of other action open to the State Government which can stymie the intention and content of the Bill that we passed last week. As I understand it, the reserves having been declared national parks are no longer under the administration of the Minister for Aboriginal and Islander Affairs in Queensland and now come under the administration of the Minister for Local Government,  Mr Hinze.  Heaven only knows, if we move in a patchwork way in trying to fix up this Bill with immediate and possibly hasty amendments, how many more little devices lurk in the whole body of Queensland law. It is clear that the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee ought to take a close look at a very wide range of Queensland legislation to ascertain just how many pieces of legislation could possibly affect the welfare of Aborigines. 
It is unfortunate that we are arguing about what sort of Crown land the Aborigines are living on, be it Aboriginal reserves or national parks, because our first priority and our first concern ought to be for the people living on the land, whichever Minister happens to be claiming responsibility for them at the moment. I would hate to see a situation in which these sorts of dodges and feints could be used over and over again by a State government hostile to this legislation and hostile to the Federal Government's policy in relation to Aborigines. 
Obviously, a very thorough-going investigation is necessary. The whole idea of referring this matter to a committee, of course, reinforces the Senate's role as a House of Review. Nevertheless, we had to pass the legislation before we took this step. It might seem a slightly roundabout way of doing things because there have been occasions when we have had legislation before us and referred it to a committee for report before we have proceeded with passage of the legislation. The reference of this matter to a committee will in no way limit the rights of and opportunities for people to put submissions to the Committee and to say whatever they believe is relevant, particularly under paragraph (c) of the motion in respect of the constitutionality, comprehensiveness, consistency and effectiveness of the legislation. Indeed, it is even open to the Queensland Government, if it sees fit, and to any department under that Government, to put in submissions relating to the legislation and to say what they think about the constitutionality and so on of the legislation. It will be interesting to see whether they treat the Senate committee with that son of interest and respect and choose to put to the Parliament and to the Government via the Senate Committee their views on whether or not that legislation is really constitutional and properly consistent with the responsibilities of the Commonwealth. I would hope that they would do so because if their genuine concern is a matter of State rights and if they really believe that the Constitution does not confer on the Commonwealth the power which the Commonwealth has assumed in passing this legislation they really ought to put it publicly and not wait until the next move in this rather unsavory game of chess, or whatever it is that we seem to be engaged in at the moment, in which of course the Aboriginal people are the pawns. 

 Mr Acting Deputy President, I draw attention to the fact that the Senate has now been sitting for just under two hours since the resumption of the sitting and with some concern I draw to your attention Standing Order 127 which, if I may extract the relevant parts, says: 
If all Motions . . . shall not have been disposed of two hours after the time fixed for the meeting of the Senate, the Debate thereon shall be interrupted . . . 
If we do not resolve this motion by 4.15 the debate will be interrupted and  Senator Bonner's  motion will go to the bottom of the list under General Business initially and then Orders of the Day. I have here today's Notice Paper for the Senate which shows that on resumption of the sittings of the Senate today there were 35 Orders of the Day. I believe two or three other matters have been added today, which would mean that  Senator Bonner's  motion would be about No. 40 on the list. In those circumstances clearly we would not get to settle this question.  Senator Gietzelt  has indicated the difficulties he sees the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee will have in reporting quickly in any event. In those circumstances I appeal to the Opposition to allow this matter to be put now so that we can have it resolved before debate will lapse at 4.15, because we are all in agreement. In that way the matter can proceed to the Committee and this very urgent work can be undertaken. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Young)-  The question is that the motion moved by  Senator Bonner  be agreed to. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  With regard to the comment of  Senator Georges,  I point out that the motion was put as a normal motion and was passed on the voices. It being two hours after the meeting of the Senate the Senate, pursuant to Standing Order 107, will proceed to Orders of the Day. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to an article in today's  Courier-Mail  which reports  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  as having said that the Uniting Church in Australia would remain to give pastoral care to Aurukun and Mornington Island Aborigines but it was not expected to have administative control as at present? Can the Minister confirm whether that is correct under the terms of the agreement that was reached by the Commonwealth and the State Government? Has the Minister seen in the same report the statement that the Federal Aboriginal Affairs Minister,  Mr Viner,  said that the Uniting Church would retain its close relationship with the Aboriginal communities? Can the Minister confirm whether that is correct? Has the Minister seen also in that article virtual editorial comment that the statement of  Mr Viner  contrasted with the statement by  Mr BjelkePetersen  that the Church would have no administrative responsibility'? Can the Minister confirm that it will be up to the Aboriginal community council to decide what role the Uniting Church will have in future at Aurukun and Mornington Island under the terms of yesterday's agreement and that in fact there is no conflict between the statements made by  Mr Petersen  and  Mr Viner  on that agreement? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I refer to a joint Press statement issued on 28 April by the Commonwealth Minister for Health and the Queensland Minister for Welfare which related to funding arrangements for women's refuges in Queensland. It was stated that- the arrangements were based on a Commonwealth subsidy of up to 50 per cent and a State subsidy of up to 25 per cent for approved capital costs, the balance to come from a source other than the State or Commonwealth. It was stated that there would be further subsidy for operating costs of 75 per cent and  12'A  per cent respectively from the Commonwealth and State. Does the Minister recall that the Press statement also included a statement that grants may also be made to local authorities, charitable and community purpose organisations and incorporated non-profit groups? Can the Minister clarify the position and state that in the case of those organisations specifically mentioned the grant will be on the basis indicated earlier in the statement of 50 per cent and 25 per cent from the Commonwealth and State respectively? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Does the Minister recall that the Minister for Primary Industry stated in a Press release dated 5 July 1977 that an interim beef producers consultative group nominated by producer organisations was to be set up to enable the October 1977 target date for the formation of the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation to be met, but that arrangements would be made for an elected producer consultative group to succeed the interim body by March 1978? Is it a fact that those elections have not been held? Is it also a fact that the Minister last month wrote to producer group leaders saying that those elections should now be delayed and reviewed at the end of 1978 on the grounds, firstly, that the cost involved was $250,000; secondly, that not all producer organisations supported the concept of an elected producer consultative group; and, thirdly, that the Stage 1 report on amalgamation of producer groups called for the establishment of a federal cattle council to provide the membership of the producer consultative group? 
Was the Government prepared to meet the cost of these elections when the Minister promised an elected producer consultative group last year? If so, why does he now use that as an objection to the Government's keeping its promise? Is it not a fact that the Government was aware at the time it promised an elected producer consultative group and set up the interim group that the proposal did not have unanimous support of producer groups but nevertheless had strong majority support? In what way has the situation changed that that objection is used now when it was not considered of sufficient importance last year to prevent the formation of a producer consultative group? Is it not a fact that the proposal for a cattle council is at this stage only a proposal, that its achievement is in the distant future and that there is some doubt that it will ever be achieved? If so, how can the Government justify using this as a reason for not meeting a commitment which should have been fulfilled two months ago? 
I rise to speak briefly on a matter which I raised in the Senate in Question Time last week and on which a statement was made in the Senate this morning by the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  representing the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  I refer to the producer consultative group for the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation. 
The Senate will recall that the Australian Meat and Live-stock Corporation Bill was considered by this chamber at the end of the autumn session last year. It was not a Bill on which I had the opportunity to speak but it was a Bill in which I had taken considerable interest because the beef industry is a major industry in Queensland. The difficulties that that industry, particularly the export section of it, has experienced in recent years has had a severe impact on sections of Queensland. We now face a position in Queensland where many beef producers rapidly are going bankrupt and thousands of people face a very difficult future indeed. 
The Australian Meat and Live-Stock Corporation Bill was very important to many thousands of Queenslanders and was a Bill in which I took a particular interest although, as I have said, I did not have the opportunity to speak on it in this House. One of the aspects of the negotiations which led to the acceptance of that Bill by a number of members of the Government was, importantly, statements of acceptance by the Government of the principle of an elected producer consultative group which reflected a very strong feeling amongst many meat producers that that consultative group to the AMLC must be elected by them. At the time of the Bill the Minister gave certain undertakings. In a statement dated 5 July 1977 to which I referred last week he promised that an interim beef producers consultative group to be nominated by producer organisations would be set up to enable the October 1 977 target date for the formation of the AMLC to be met, but that arrangements would be made for an elected producer consultative group to succeed the interim body by March 1978- that is, a body elected by all the beef producers in Australia. On that basis many producers who had some misgivings about the Bill accepted it and they have looked forward to the opportunity of having an elected representative producer consultative group to express their point of view. 
During the last fortnight recess from this place- a couple of weeks ago- I had brought to my attention by a large number of beef producers in Queensland the fact that they believed that the Government was backing away from the promise made by the Minister last year. They indicated to me that there were moves afoot, for various reasons, for the Government to defer the matter of the election of this group- indeed, they believed, to abandon the whole idea. When I returned to this place and pursued my inquiries in relation to it- because I was quite unaware of it- I found that no public announcement had been made by the Minister but that he had written to the leaders of certain producer groups in April indicating that the Government believed on certain grounds that the previous decision for a producer elected consultative group should be delayed and reviewed at the end of this year. Last week I questioned those grounds and the validity of them in view of undertakings and assumptions that were made last year. Today  Senator Webster  representing the Minister for Primary Industry made in this chamber a statement giving the reasons for the Government's decision not to honour this promise to have elections by March of this year but to defer them. 
I feel that I must, on behalf of beef producers in Queensland- it also affects other meat producers- take exception to the statement and place on record my feelings about its contents. 
In the statement the Minister said that one of the reasons for the deferral of the election which should have been held in March was that commitments of the Australian Electoral Office late in 1 977 necessitated variation of the timetable originally proposed and, subsequently, a number of other developments influenced the finalisation of arrangements for an election. 
Given that those elections should have been well under way- presumably during February and certainly by early March- I wonder why no statement on the need for deferral was made by the Government until I asked a question in this place last week. I understand that there would have been certain effects on the Australian Electoral Office presumably as a result of our having a Federal election last year. Nevertheless there had been no statement by the Government that that would mean a deferral of the election of this group. I do not accept the statements that these commitments were necessarily the critical element. If the commitments made the position difficult, the Government should have been well aware of this situation at the beginning of the year and should have said so. It should not have waited until April to inform the leaders of the producer groups that it had decided to defer the election and review the situation at the end of this year. 
I indicated in my question that I was aware that not all producers or even all producer groups had supported the concept of a producer elected consultative group. That has always been known. However, I stated in my question that there were clear indications at the time the Government made its promise last year, that there was strong majority support from producers and within producer groups for this proposal. Today the Minister in his statement said that there was a strong division of opinion amongst producers on this issue, with two of the four national livestock producer organisations being opposed to an electoral basis for election of members of the producer consultative group. That is not news. What is not indicated in the Minister's statement is that those two organisations by no means represent a majority of beef producers. The two organisations which have supported the proposal can, by virtue of the total of their membership, far more fairly claim to represent a majority of producer opinion. To state that two of the four organisations are opposed to an electoral basis for selection of members to this body might be taken to indicate a split down the centre, but it does not give the Senate the true facts of the composition of those who support and those who oppose the proposal. 
The Minister in his statement went on to indicate that there has been a significant move towards unity within producer organisations. It should be mentioned that there has been published by certain groups a 'stage 1 discussion paper' in which they consider the possibility of the amalgamation of certain producer groups. However, it also ought to be spelt out to the Senate that the amalgamation was not suggested until February this year, by which time the election for the producer consultative group should have been well under way. It was not. For the Government to claim that as a basis for a decision to defer the election ignores the timing of the amalgamation proposal. Since the suggestion was not made until February, by which time the electoral processes should have been well under way, the Government cannot claim that as a basis. The Government may wish to claim that as a basis for now continuing to defer the election but it cannot claim that as a reason for a decision which apparently was taken at the end of last year. 
There is further information in the statement made by the Minister relating to the unity proposals. I referred to that information in my question last week. One of the proposals is that members of the producer consultative group should be nominated by a cattle council and a sheep council. The proposed target date in the discussion paper for the formation of those councils is 1 January 1979. I indicate to the Senate that my information from a number of beef producers is that that proposal is not acceptable. Last year producers made very clear the fact that they want this producer consultative group to be elected by producers. The proposal that a cattle council and a sheep council should form the producer consultative group would take us to the position where representatives or organisations would form that group. The organisations of meat producers in Australia do not represent all meat producers. The cattle organisations represent approximately two-thirds of cattle producers. So if these groups constitute the producer consultative group, one-third of cattle producers will not have an opportunity to indicate what individuals they want on the producer consultative group, the type of representation they want on that group and the information which ought to flow from it to the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation. Time will tell the strength of the opposition to the notion that organisations ought to have the right to appoint representatives to the producer consultative group. Last year organisations accepted appointment to the interim producer consultative group only on the grounds that it was an interim group and that it would be followed by a fully elected body. 
I mention one point which I took up in my question. One of the grounds for delaying the election which the Minister put to the producer organisations in his letter of April was the cost involved. He stated that it would cost an estimated $250,000. In the statement which the Minister made available to the Senate today he made the comment that in a time of budgetary restraint, to spend a lot of money by proceeding with an election for the producer consultative group against the majority of industry opinion would be foolish and irresponsible. He cannot claim that it is against the majority of industry opinion. Last year it was clearly believed to represent a majority of industry opinion. If, last year, prior to the passage to the Australian Meat and Live-stock Corporation Bill the Minister gave undertakings to producers and producer organisations that the Government would support these elections, it was presumably prepared to support whatever those elections cost. 
Today in his statement the Minister has said that the cost of $250,000 is more than double the amount originally envisaged. That amount was envisaged only 12 months ago. We have just gone through the process of examining the Supplementary Estimates before the Estimates committees. There may have been a decision to enter into new commitments which have doubled expenditure in some categories of government activity, but very few things have doubled in basic cost. If it is true that the estimate 12 months ago for this election was approximately $ 125,000 and if the estimate is now $250,000, the Minister has raised many questions which he ought to answer. I ask: Where did the original estimate come from? Why is there such a big difference between the estimate for last year and the estimate now, 12 months later? What has changed in relation to the estimate? What possible explanation can be given for that sort of increase? In any event, surely the Government assumed that whatever the estimated cost was last year, it would increase albeit at a gradually decreasing rate as the years went by. Nevertheless that was a commitment which the Government was prepared to give last year, which was also a time of budgetary restraint. Budgetary restraint has not become news to the Parliament within the last few months. If the Government believed or claimed to believe that this was such an important matter that the Government ought to fund it, that principle remains unchanged. The fact that the estimated cost is now $250,000 does not change the principle. However it raises questions about the validity of the original estimate. In that case, one could ask the same questions about the basis of the current estimate and whether it can be mentioned as a ground for the Government not meeting its obligation in this matter. The Minister, in his statement, concludes: 
In the light of the above considerations the Minister for Primary Industry judged it appropriate to again canvass industry views and on 1 3 April 1978 wrote to the four national producer organisations concerned. 
By 13 April we should have had a fully elected producer consultative group which should have established a relationship with the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation. To write the letter to producer group- after the date which the Government had given as a firm undertakingindicates that scant regard has been shown for the opinions and feelings of people who consider this to be so important. 
What particularly concerns me is that judging by the Minister's statement today it is as clear as it can be that the Government has changed its mind about the undertakings it gave last year concerning an elected producer consultative group. We were given no official statement on that matter. We came by that information because the Minister wrote a letter to four individuals. A number of people raised the issue with me during the parliamentary recess when, by fortuitous circumstances, I was in certain areas of Queensland which have large numbers of beef producers. I think the Minister should explain why he has not made a statement before nowindeed, before March- on why the Government had apparently decided some months ago not to keep faith with the undertaking it gave 12 months ago. I believe the explanation which was given in this chamber earlier today by the Minister for Science, as Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, does not contain the answers that should have been given, and does not indicate well enough the reasons for the Government having taken this decision. I believe that a further explanation to the Senate, and certainly to the meat producers of Australia, ought to be given- one which clearly indicates why the Government has changed its mind. I suggest that the reasons for that change are not contained in today's statement. 
I rise to speak very briefly on the Softwood Forestry Agreements Bill just to put on the record a couple of comments about the attitudes expressed towards the Bill and about the various amendments which have been moved or which have been foreshadowed. I agree with many of the criticisms of the Bill and of the Government which have been made by a number of my colleagues. I would have preferred that the passage of the Bill be delayed for some time so that a Senate committee could look at the principle it contains, namely, that the Commonwealth not finance any new plantings. I have some misgivings about the basis of that decision. I am not certain whether it is right or wrong. I fear that the Government's decision may be precipitate in the light of some information which is available. A case has been made by a number of honourable senators about the detrimental effects which they believe the cessation of financing by the Commonwealth Government of new plantings will have on the industry both now and in the future. That, of course, includes the current employment position. 
I come to this topic not as any sort of expert. The Bill provides some money for my State of 
Queensland. But I do come to the Bill with misgivings because, from discussions both private and public which I have had with people who support it or who advocate the basis of it, I am just not convinced by what they say. It seems to me that the doubts which are raised about whether the Bill is properly based are quite strong. I therefore concluded that there would be value in a Senate committee looking at the Bill. 
I cannot support the Opposition's amendment which is simply an expression of opinion that the Government should continue to provide funds to the States for new plantings in the same proportion as provided under previous agreements. As I say, I am not certain that that is correct either. I would have liked to have seen this Bill referred to a Senate committee which has already been mentioned and which, it is alleged, would be in a reasonable position to bring a quick report to the Senate. That would mean, of course, a delay in the passage of the Bill. There has been some discussion in recent days about the effect that that would have. People both in the States and in the industry have indicated fears about the effect that the delay, caused by sending the Bill to a Senate committee for a couple of months, would have on the industry. I do not believe that those fears are well founded. I believe there was a possible alternative. 
In attempting to find out the financial position I did at least make some inquiries on the subject and I have received some advice on it. The fear which is expressed is that if the Bill is held up, the money for maintenance will not go to the States. An amount of something like $4.5m is involved. However, the advice I have received is that if we were concerned that the reference of the Bill to a standing committee would unduly delay its passage and preclude or delay any payments to the States of financial assistance which is contemplated under the legislation, then the Senate could indicate its agreement to such payments by passing a motion something like this: 'That the Senate has no objection to the Executive Government making payments pending the passage of the legislation '. There has been some dispute about whether the Government could do that. I have received some advice which I sought unofficially. It was given by an officer of the Department of the Treasury. He indicated from inquiries he made that if such a motion were passed, payments could be made for this purpose under section 5 of Appropriation Bill (No. 4) 1977-78 when passed by the Parliament. Of course, that Bill will be passed before the Senate adjourns for the winter recess. Clause 5 of that 
Bill, which is at present before the House of Representatives, provides: 
Payments to a State out of such of the moneys appropriated by this Act as are specified in Division 846 in the Schedule shall be made on such terms and conditions, if any, as the Minister for Finance determines and in accordance with any determinations by the Minister for Finance as to the amounts and times of the payments. 
Division 846 deals with payments to or for the States for natural disasters and restoration. I believe the Senate could have made a request that the money be provided, on a short term basis, from that source. That would have overcome the difficulty of delaying the passage of the Bill and it would have removed the necessity for us to say yea or nay when there is considerable doubt about the basis of the information that has been given to us so far. 
Of course, the Senate has another alternative. It can let the Bill through and then decide that its standing committee nevertheless ought to look at the Bill and that it ought to bring in a report to the Government. The Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  has indicated that the Government would take no objection to that course being followed. I would hope that the Government would take no objection to that course. 1 cannot imagine why it would because by then it would have the Bill and it would be under no obligation at all to take the slightest notice of any Senate committee report on this particular subject or on any other reference which it might be suggested would be related to it. 
I am very sorry that the Government has delayed for so long the presentation of the Bill to the Parliament. It has restricted the opportunity for the Senate to examine the Bill properly. It is a Bill which we could have usefully examined. The agreement between the Commonwealth and the States was made in principle long ago. It is a simple Bill, given that the Commonwealth Government has made its decision. I believe that the Bill could have been presented to the Parliament months ago and it could have undergone proper scrutiny by a Senate committee. However, the timing is such that we have little opportunity before the parliamentary session ends. If we expect a report which is to be of any long term value in our considerations it is not realistic to expect a Senate committee to take the Bill now and to report on it before the end of the session. There is value in the suggestion that a future inquiry be held by a Senate committee, but the value of such an inquiry will be only that value which the Government gives to it. 
If that reference is made to a Senate committeeI hope it will be- then the controversial points of view can be aired publicly. It can be a public exercise instead of something which happens within a department or in a Minister's office. It would be possible for a variety of people to put a point of view. Presumably, the committee can come up with a recommendation which will be highly relevant to the Bill. But how very sad it is, just by virtue of the timing and by the fact that the Bill has been delayed for so long in its introduction, that an opportunity for proper parliamentary input is not given in relation to the Bill before it is passed. Once it is passed it is a fait accompli and then it is up to the Government, and the Minister in particular, to decide whether they want to take any notice of any subsequent input by the Parliament. For the reasons I have given I cannot support the Opposition's amendment, but I indicate that I support the Government's Bill with some reluctance. 
Pursuant  to order, I present the report from Estimates Committee B on the particulars of proposed additional expenditure for the year 1977-78, together with the  Hansard  record of the Committee 's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to table written replies received by Estimates Committee B since the Committee reported to the Senate on 1 1 May 1 978. 
Leave granted. 
I table the replies and seek leave to have them incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Does the Minister recall my asking him a question on 4 May 1978 relating to the deferral of the election of a Producers' Consultative Group to be established under the provisions of the Australian Meat and Live-stock Corporation Act 1977? Does he recall further that on 8 May 1978 he told the Senate, in answer to my question, that the Minister for Primary Industry had informed him that 'commitments of the Australian Electoral Office late in 1977 necessitated a variation of the timetable originally proposed for this election'? Does the Minister further recall  that during the adjournment debate on 8 May 1978 he said: 
I can well understand why the Australian Electoral Office was unable to cope with the requirements of the Government. In November a Federal election was announced and the Electoral Office would have been more than busy during November, December and January? 
Does the Minister agree that his comments during the adjournment debate indicated that he had concluded, as I had, from the statement of the Minister for Primary Industry that the Electoral Office had informed the Government that it was unable to proceed with arrangements for elections of the Producers ' Consultative Group? Did the Electoral Office give any such indication to the Government? If not, why did the Government not request the Electoral Office to proceed with the conduct of these elections? When did the Government take this decision? Can the Minister give the Senate the Government's reasons for not announcing this decision at the time it was made? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 1 1 May 1978: 
1 ) What estimate of cost was given to the Government of the cost of elections for a producer consultative group for the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation prior to the introduction of the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation Bill 1 977 into Parliament in the 1 977 autumn period of sittings. 
) Who prepared the estimate for the Government. 
What more recent estimate of the cost of these elections has been given to the Government. 
When did the Government request a revised estimate of the cost ofthe elections. 
Who prepared the revised estimate. 
When did the Government receive the revised estimate. 
by leave- I wish to set the record straight on a matter which has been raised in the Press in the last couple of weeks, relating to Senate Estimates Committee B. I refer to two newspaper reports, both written by Warwick Costin. One report appeared in the  Sunday Sun  on 6 August 1978 and the other appeared in the  Sunday Telegraph  on 6 August 1978. These reports relate to certain operations of Estimates Committee B in considering the estimates of the Australian Broadcasting Commission when supplementary estimates were looked at earlier this year. I would like to get into the record parts of the reports which are relevant to the Estimates Committee's proceedings. The article from the  Sunday Sun,  headed 'Aunty comes clean on its Soap ', in part states: 
A bureaucratic mix up has revealed that the ABC paid almost S 1 50,000 Tor a television flop. 
The ABC disclosed the price to a Senate committee believing it would be kept secret. 
* * * * 
The administrative misunderstanding began when a Senate estimates committee asked for details of the show. 
A Liberal backbencher,  Senator Harold  Young, asked an ABC official if the price paid for Soap could be supplied ona confidential basis. 
Committee members were given an assurance that the price paid was no more than the going rate for comedy material. 
A week later a letter from the ABC's general manager,  Mr Talbot  Duckmanton, revealed the figure was $5,764 for each episode shown nationally with one repeat. 
We would ask that this advice be regarded as confidential ', he said. 
Stunned commission officials were told soon after that the letter would have to be made public. 
A standing order . . . says committees shall sit in open session unless otherwise ordered- and no order was made. 

 Mr Duckmanton 's letter was included in the committee 's report which was tabled in the Senate. 
The report in the  Sunday Telegraph,  headed Soap fiasco gets Aunty in a lather', substantially makes the same points but it also includes the words: 
The Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  said: 'I imagine the cost would be confidential to the committee and not for  Hansard. ' 
That quote gives the impression that it is taken from the Senate  Hansard  report of Estimates Committee B. I want to get the record quite clear on this matter. Pages 195 and 196 of  Hansard  of 4 May for Estimates Committees A, B, D and E are relevant. If honourable senators are interested, they can refer to what was actually said at that Committee's hearings. I just want to pick up a couple of points and say that I believe that there is no basis at all for those articles, let alone for any alleged belief that the ABC might have that it had received an assurance of confidentiality in relation to certain information and certainly no basis for being 'stunned', as is alleged in the article, when the information was made available to the Senate. 
It is possible that somebody could pick up that  Hansard  and misunderstand a statement that I made. I wish to quote just a small part of it. When  Senator Young  asked for the information- I ought to indicate that  Senator Young  in not a member of the Committee but was present as a senator asking questions, as is his right- the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  said: 
There may be some qualification on that in terms of the disclosure of a commercial contract. 
I said: 
In that case it could be submitted to the Committee. 

 Senator Carrick said: 
I only make that qualification to allow the officers to make the information available at a confidential level if necessary. 
The intention of my remark was that a request for confidentiality could be made to the Committee. Such a request can always be made. In the past that Committee has had requests for confidentiality. The reason that I interposed that  Senator Young  was not a member of the Committee was that I want to make it clear that everybody else there present was aware of requests that had been made to the Committee for confidentiality and would also have been aware that on every occasion the request was rejected and the rejection was accepted by the person making it. Of course the situation is that a Senate Estimates committee cannot accept evidence in confidence. A request can be made to the Senate to give the Committee permission to accept the evidence in confidence. We have had such requests. On those occasions we have advised that we did not believe that the Senate would accede to a request but that it was up to those people making the request to proceed if they wished to do so. On all the previous occasions it was our opinion that the information was not such as would earn the support of the Senate for a request for confidentiality, but the initiative rested with the Senate if the request was made. No requests for information to be kept confidential have ever been made by a department to the Senate in the time that I have been on that Committee. 
In the particular case to which I was referring, it was the expectation of the Committee- there was certainly no argument about it- that if the ABC felt that the information should be kept confidential, because it would in some way be prejudiced in its commercial transactions, it was open to the ABC to make its case. No such case came to us at all. Indeed in the report of Estimates Committee B to the Senate, which was tabled on 11 May 1978, there is a paragraph on page 3 which I would like to quote to indicate that the Committee was aware of this position at the time. It states: 
Again, during evidence given by officers of the Austraiian Broadcasting Commission, the question of confidentiality of evidence was raised. This question is one which has been raised in the past concerning the commercial interests of the ABC. The Committee points out that it has no power to take any in camera evidence or to receive any evidence of a confidential nature. Decisions relating to confidentiality rest in the hands of the Senate. 
The position simply is that the Committee was not asked to make the information confidential and it recognises that it does not have that power. 
The information in question was included in additional information tabled on 24 May 1978 and 29 May 1978. If honourable senators are interested, they ought to look at a letter from  Mr Duckmanton  addressed to  Senator Carrick,  the Minister for Education. It appears on pages 26 to 29 of that report. Honourable senators can note that on page 28, under the heading 'Television series- "Soap" ', it is stated: 
The price per episode was $5,764 for two showings Australia-wide. We would ask that this advice be regarded as confidential. 
I reiterate that that was a letter from  Mr Duckmanton  to the Minister. The request for confidentiality never went to the Committee. I understand that it was pointed out informally to certain people in the ABC, who would have known anyway because they have been attending meetings of that Committee and the Committee has dealt with the matter of confidentiality many times with them, that that is not the sort of request for which the Committee would feel any strong support. In any event, the request should not go to the Committee, or even to the Minister. It should go to the Senate. That is the procedure, and I believe that the ABC and the people involved in its Estimates understand that clearly. During the time I have been on the Committee it has been discussed many times and I understand that before I came into the Senate it was discussed many times. Certainly the principle was established well before I came in to the Senate, which is more than four years ago. 
As I have said, I rose to get on record the Committee's attitude and its actions and to point out that the implications of the articles printed in the newspapers were quite false. I am very disturbed that certain anonymous ABC officials, who have been 'stunned', according to the article, could make statements like that to members of the Press. I believe that it brings into some disrepute the workings of an Estimates committee, and quite undeservedly so. As chairman of the Committee, I was never contacted for any comment on this subject. I just happened to pick up my newspaper one fine Sunday morning and there it was. As far as I am aware, no other member of the Committee was contacted either. I think it is important that the Senate should know that Estimates Committee B does recognise its obligations to the Senate and it did not abrogate them by giving any unwarranted undertaking of confidentiality during its hearings on the estimates of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
I address a question to the Minister for Education. It relates to the Government's decision to tax post-graduate awards. Can the Minister clarify whether the taxation will apply to the allowances that are attached to the awards and, specifically, the allowances for a dependent spouse or dependent children? 
-Far be it from me to try to improve on  Senator Grimes's  criticism of the Government policy but it seems to me that there is a central issue on the subject of family allowances which is unacceptable and which he has not chosen to emphasise. He mentioned this just in passing in the last few sentences of his speech. I did not put my name on the list of speakers in this debate with an intention to speak on family allowances. We have had a long speech on it to which I have listened with some interest. Since I am now speaking and have an opinion on this subject which I intended to express in the future anyway, I want to take a couple of minutes of the Senate's time on this subject. 
The central issue of government policy on family allowances is: What is a family allowance? When family allowances were introduced by our Government they were justified as a transfer of income from husband to wife. A family allowance is the mother's income. Tax deductions for dependent children were taken away from the breadwinner- traditionally the manand an approximately equivalent sum of money was transferred in an accounting process so that the mothers of Australia received an income which related to the fact that they were mothers looking after children. That was a decision that I, amongst many, applauded- and I applauded it in the Senate. Now to reduce the mother's income because of the child's income seems to be the most hopeless muddle of thinking on what a family allowance is about. I reiterate that the family allowance was income for the mother and a transfer of income from husband to wife, from father to mother. 
The Government has rightly decided that it will try to do away with a tax dodge, a system of spreading family income across all members of a family, including dependent children, so that the tax that would otherwise be payable on the income, in most cases of the father, cannot be reduced by an artificial spreading of his income across his children and possibly also his wife. I agree that that little tax lurk ought to be overcome. But why do we penalise the mother? Why do we head for the weaker of the pair in terms of vulnerability for tax? If it is, as it usually is, the father's income which is being spread, why do we pick on the mother? The family allowance is so easy to pick on because it is a government payment. But I reiterate that it is a government payment which previously would have been paid to the father in the form of a tax rebate. As I said, many of us applauded the Government's decision to split income between the father and mother by taking away the rebate which went to the father and paying it in the form of the family allowance- not means tested- to the mother. If the Government wants to get at family income which is being artificially spread it ought to get fair dinkum about its methods. To pick on the mother's income because it is being paid via the Government in my opinion is frankly disgraceful. 
The family allowance provision, as I saw it, was a first step towards some sort of proper distribution of income in the community. The payment was a recognition of the fact that the mothers of Australia make a real contribution to the economy of the family. It made sure that the mothers got, in their own names, an income related to their family position, namely, that of being a mother. I looked forward to the next step being taken by which we would have rationalised further the concept of family income. I will not canvass the individual ways in which this can be done. There are many ways, most of which have big problems inherent in them, t applauded the first step. I looked forward to the Government's pursuing that first step and, recognising the value of the mother to the family in Australia, taking a rational next step. 
What the Government has done has completely cut across the original rationale for the family allowance. We keep on hearing- we heard it for far too long from  Senator Grimes;  he should not have spent so much time on it- that this matter relates to a child 's income. The family allowance is not income for the child. Nevertheless, we are pursuing a situation where a child 's income will reduce the mother's income. There is no rationale for that. Certainly it bears no relationship at all to the original rationale for the family allowance, and that is the point that I think we have to pursue.  Senator Grimes  has done a lot of worthwhile work on how this decision will affect individual families and what the realities of income reduction will be, but I suggest with the greatest of respect to him that he would make a more worthwhile contribution to the debate, and certainly one which would have more relevance to the women of Australia, if he recognised that the mother's allowance is to be penalised because of the child 's income. 
I listened to the honourable senator's speech, and I realise that he touched on that matter. Towards the end of his speech he spent a couple of minutes on it. That was useful. Nevertheless too much emphasis has been placed in this chamber on the subject of the child 's income. We hear the argument that because a child gets an income somewhere else, the mother has to be penalised. This is implicit in most of the questions and the debate that we have had from both sides of the House. I feel it is important, if we are to resolve the problem satisfactorily, that we get off this angle and back on to the original rationale for the family allowance and require the Government to justify its actions in the light of the original rationale for the family allowance. 
As I said when I rose to speak, this was not the subject on which I intended to talk today. I would like to spend a few minutes of the Senate 's time on another subject. Of course we are debating the first reading of some apple and pear legislation. The first reading of a money Bill gives honourable senators the right to raise subjects which they think have some value but which are not necessarily related to the legislation before the Senate. I would like to take this opportunity to raise a subject which I have had some interest in raising in the Senate for some time. I am sure, from the number of speakers who are listed for this debate, that many subjects will be raised. I take the opportunity to raise a subject which I consider is of considerable importance. 
I have spoken in the Senate on a number of occasions on issues related to education. Education is one of my main interests of government policy. One area of education has not been debated while I have been in the Senate. The fact that it has not been debated I find quite sad, because in my opinion it is one of the most pressing areas of need in education in Australia today. Probably one of the reasons it has not been debated is that we do not consider any Bills which are related to it. I refer to multi-cultural education. 
I have had a lengthy and, I think I can fairly say, extensive association with education groups throughout the Australian community. I have been interested in the subject of multi-cultural education for quite some time. I have involved myself personally in discussions with quite a large number of groups on the topic. However I now discern a genuine groundswell within the Australian community on the subject of multicultural education to which all governments, State and Federal, will have to address themselves very quickly. I believe that it is a great pity that we did not take more purposeful measures in this area sooner. For the interest of the Senate, 
I will outline a couple of ideas that I have on the subject which arise partly from my own thoughts and partly from the points of view put to me by a large number of people who are very interested in what happens in education in Australia today and specifically in the education of migrants. 
I want to make it quite clear that when I talk about multi-cultural education I am not talking just about migrants. If we use the term we should also include our Aborigines. I think that Aboriginal culture is part of the Australian culture. The proposals for multi-cultural education are an attempt to try to bring to the attention of Australians who have been a little complacent on the subject the role that migrants play in our community today. Some 20 per cent of our present population was not born in Australia. Some 40 per cent has at least one parent who was not born in Australia. With the massive migration programs that we embarked on post-war we now have indeed a multi-cultural society. That multicultural society does not show itself in many areas. There are areas in which it could more properly show itself. There are areas where it is beginning to emerge. There is an awareness that we are now a multi-cultural society and not only the traditional Anglo-Saxon British society we once were. But the process has been slow. Nevertheless, I believe that the process is accelerating and that it will be quickly upon us. 
Not all of us, but most of us in this Parliament are of traditional British descent or of the traditional Australian descent which this country has witnessed in only the last 200 years. Nevertheless, we welcome more and more people coming into the Parliament who are migrants or who are the children of people who have migrated to this country within its recent history. This process is to be welcomed. It is remarkable, in view of the statistics I cited a moment ago, that more such people are not in this place. The reasons that hold back that sort of development are holding back a parallel development in other areas of our society. But I really believe that changes will occur. The changes that have taken place in recent years have been very rapid. I believe that the changes will continue to be rapid and that in the foreseeable future we will see a very much more marked effect. Our education system does not prepare us for this at all. 
The Commonwealth Government has some responsibility in migrant education but the essential responsibility lies with the States. For various reasons, the States have not succeeded in this area of responsibility as well as one might have hoped. It is my hunch- I emphasise that it is only a 'hunch'- that if this challenge is to be taken up it probably will have to be taken up by Commonwealth governments. It would be preferable that this be not one more responsibility which is pushed off on to the Commonwealth Government by State governments, but I believe that the need to meet the challenge will become so urgent that it will have to be responded to very quickly. Frankly, I do not discern within our States a willingness to meet the challenge, with the rapidly increasing rate of expenditure that will be involved, at the rate that it must be undertaken. 
Many things can be said on the general subject of multi-cultural education. I would like to refer to a couple which I consider to be important. An attitude existed in this country when we embarked on large-scale migration, particularly European non-British migration, that we would bring these people here so that they would have the opportunity to enjoy the benefits of being Australians, and that our efforts in helping them to settle down would be directed towards showing them how to be good Australians- some sort of echo of the sort of people we considered ourselves to be. It would be a great pity if we persist in this point of view. I do not believe we should persist with it. We have so many different cultural, ethnic and national groups in significant numbers in our country now that we must realise that they are part of Australia. We have to shift our ground a little and look at what they have to offer the Australian culture, which ought to become part of the Australian culture. 
The language and history of many of these people are rich. Their histories contain lessons that we probably need to know about. Our history in Australia has been so brief, certainly in terms of post-European settlement, that we do not have many lessons to learn from our history compared with those that many of the migrants coming here can teach us. They have a long and a written history; one of which they are conscious and one from which they seek to learn lessons in terms of past human mistakes. We could avail ourselves of those histories far more directly in our schools, learn about them and let the children who come from those cultural backgrounds understand that we are interested in them- that they have a right to be proud of the fact that they have their own individual history and culture that they bring to this country to share with us. 
There has been understandable complacency in Australia. This is a wonderful country with much to offer all those people who live in it. Because our country has been so good to us, because we have enjoyed so much of its riches, we have tended to overlook the fact that there are other things in life and other things to know that we could learn from people who come from poorer circumstances and poorer countries. Indeed, there is much we need to know. It is a pity that the children of our migrants go into our schools and use and learn about only English. If they want to learn their parents' languages they have to go somewhere else to learn them. It would be an enriching experience for the children of Australian parents to understand those other children who share classrooms with them, who have another language and a history about which those children have as much right to feel proud as the children of Australian parents. These matters do not have to dominate us, but they are something from which our children should benefit from learning. 
I do not want to speak for very much longer but I want briefly to pick up a point I made at the beginning of my remarks. Much, or nearly all, of the discussion on multicultural education has turned on the subject of the children of migrants and of migrants themselves. I would like to see the term 'multicultural education' also include the Aboriginal culture. We in this country are now again, slowly, becoming aware of the fact that our Aborigines were not the Stone Age primitives that many Australians traditionally considered them to be. Before white man came here they had a very sophisticated culture, a very sophisticated and intricate religion, and their relationship with the land and the way they lived was a highly successful civilisation. One of the reasons their culture has been so easily damaged is that they did not have a written language. Their history was not written down in books and they moved around. They did not build cities and they did not farm. That meant that, with the intrusion of another very strong culture, it was very easy to damage that very intricate and fascinating culture. 
Only within the past couple of decades in this country has much effort gone into finding out about and writing down details of the Aboriginal culture. As people have taken the trouble to look at and to learn about the Aboriginal culture they have discovered in many cases, to their amazement, that these people did have a very sophisticated and intricate culture, religion and tradition. We can learn a lot from Aboriginal culture, even that small amount of it that we know so far. We are now aware that the standards of behaviour of the Aborigines were high. Generally their culture was a gentle one; some people would call it even a Christian one; one of consideration and caring for others. I think that many aspects of Aboriginal culture are to be admired. If we lose the opportunity of teaching all our children- those children born in Australia and those children born in lands over the sea- just how interesting and valuable that culture is it will be a tragedy. 
The Aborigines themselves are now struggling to discern, to define, to write down and to preserve what is left of their culture- what has not been damaged. Of course, they should be given every consideration. The biggest encouragement we can give, and the most genuine encouragement, is to take that culture into our schools. Certainly in Aboriginal schools the children should learn of their own culture. They should be aware of the fact that it is something of which they should be proud. But they will be really proud when we recognise that it is a culture of great value- of enduring value- for its own sake and that it is a culture about which we want to teach our children. In conclusion on this issue, I make the point that when we recognise, as we should, the enormous contribution that our migrants and the children of our migrants have made to our country by paying the attention we should pay to their culture and by recognising the fact that their culture is now part of ours we should recognise also that the original Australians had a culture about which we need to know, one which can most effectively be brought into our society and a knowledge of which should be spread throughout our schools. 
The needs of migrants in our schools are very keen indeed. Those needs are now being detailed and are becoming more and more generally public knowledge. That I welcome. But along with other people who care about education, I am very sorry that it has taken so long for us to recognise this fact. It is very easy to go into areas of high migrant population and to see education conditions which obtain which it is difficult to believe still obtain in this country. There is an urgent need for extended facilities for the migrants in our country. With very few exceptions, I see little recognition of that fact by State governments, unfortunately presently State governments have the first responsibility in this area. The Commonwealth has taken some responsibility. But shortly, large sums of money will be required to provide just basic facilities to meet the very urgent problem which is going to force itself on us in our schools. The problem has been there for some time. It has only recently been defined; nevertheless it undoubtedly is growing and we must meet it urgently. This presents a great challenge to Australia. It is a challenge to our awareness of the value that migrants have given our country. It is a challenge to our ability to recognise that it has not been a one-way giving process. Certainly, by coming here migrants have achieved benefits for themselves, but this country has gained very big benefits also. We ought to recognise that we have benefited and show that we are really ready to take the next step which comes from our migrant programs, namely, to move towards becoming a truly multi-cultural society. It is a very exciting prospect. 
My question is to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Has the Minister seen a report in the  Sunday Sun  newspaper of 24 September 1978 wherein it was reported that 100 local residents on Bribie Island, Queensland, have signed a petition to be presented to the honourable C. R. Porter, M.L.A., the Queensland Minister for Aborigines and Islanders Advancement, opposing the construction by his Department of a holiday home on that Island to be used by selected families from the Cherbourg Aboriginal Mission on the grounds that such a home and its intended inhabitants would have a detrimental effect on surrounding land values? Does the Minister agree that this action could offend the Federal Government's Racial Discrimination Act? If so, will the Minister take the necessary steps to ensure that this matter is brought to the attention of the Commissioner for Community Relations? 
I hesitate to strain the patience of the Senate at this hour on the last night of a series of sitting weeks but I have had enough. I would like to speak for just a few minutes. Honourable senators may be aware that before I came into this place I had some experience of formal debating. One of the lessons I learnt from my experience in that arena was that one does not attempt to debate nonsense. That makes it very difficult to take on in any detail the sorts of things that  Senator Harradine  talked about this evening in relation to women. It is interesting to note that  Senator Harradine  is the senator who most frequently raises the subject of women in this place. I have hesitated to get up and debate him on this subject in the past because, frankly, the points of view that have been put have been unanswerable, not in the sense that they were so true that there was no answer but in the sense that they frequently have been incoherent. Frankly, this evening I thought that  Senator Harradine  's argument, if it was an argument, was incoherent. 
I rise tonight simply to get a couple of things on the record so that if  Senator Harradine  is going to pursue his arguments in relation to the role of women in Australia, perhaps we might be able to get that debate on to some reasonable bases. I admire the way in which  Senator 
Harradine does defend the mothers of Australia. I admire that very much because mothers of Australia are people who need defence on occasions from some of the things that would happen to them if there were not people in this place who were prepared to speak up for them. 
I do not intend to canvass the issue of family allowances. I have made my point of view clear on that and I would have thought that that would have made as clear as possible my attitude towards Australian mothers and the fact that in certain situations they do need defence. It is not that issue that I wish to canvass. It is the way that  Senator Harradine  approaches the subject of debate on women. Several times in his speech this evening we heard him refer to how mothers had been forced into the work force. One gets the message from  Senator Harradine  and people who have a similar point of view that they really do wish to force mothers back into the kitchen. 
I shall refer very briefly to a very interesting article which appeared in the  Age  newspaper yesterday. It is headed 'The dark ages of women'. It is an article on a book entitled  The Years of Grace,  published a couple of decades ago, which gave some advice to young women on how they ought to grow up. The author of this article, one Geoffrey Barker, said that he stumbled across a copy of the revised 1956 edition of  The Years of Grace  and found himself face to face with pre-liberation woman, the original female eunuch. Let it be said to  Mr Barker's  credit that he took his subject seriously and tracked down the author of this book. The author turned out to be an 83 year old spinster. I would like to quote one little part of the article because I think it is interesting.  Mr Barker  said: 
Today Miss  Streatfeild  remains convinced that the best place for a woman is in the home.  lt it is possible to fall in love with the right person, the best career is a husband and children ', she said. 
Unfortunately, nine times out of ten, it doesn't come off', she added. 
In other words, it is a nice idea but it does not work. I do not want to pursue that to its ultimate conclusion but I think it illustrates a point of view that appears to have passed  Senator Harradine  by. Women these days are entitled to choose their own path in life just as men have been for some time. In the modern age, in our type of society, men have certainly been released from economic constraints which may have held them in subservience to the ruling classes in previous times. Women are now starting to be released from those constraints. 

 Senator Harradine is always interesting on the subject of industrial relations. This is a subject on which he knows a great deal. It amazes me that with his grasp of industrial relations he does not realise that they are really human relations. It amazes me that he has not caught up with the writings and thinking of many people in the area of industrial sociology who have realised that industrial relations relate to human relations. It amazes me, for example, that he is unaware that the concepts of job satisfaction, automation, dehumanisation and the social implications that flow from them in the industrial arena have been discovered in modern research and technology to have strong parallels with some of the traditional social problems of women in our community. 
Out of respect to the Senate and the hour of night I will not pursue this at great length. It is a subject on which I have spoken publicly frequently. I would like to lay down the simple conclusion-  Senator Harradine  can pick it up and debate it in the Senate at any time he likes in the future and I will be delighted to debate with him at length- is that people choose their role in life. If a woman chooses her role to be that of a full time wife and mother that is great. Governments should do nothing to stop that. Family allowances, of course, have a lot to do with that. They enable a family to have the right sort of economic independence so that women who choose to make a career of being a full time wife and mother are in a position to do so and are not pushed out into the work force. However, while we recognise that, it would be as iniquitous as pushing mothers out into the work force to push all women back into the kitchen. 
I admit that  Senator Harradine  did not use those words tonight but it was impossible to follow his line of reasoning. He brought up all the old bogies in an unassorted incoherent manner. He brought up homosexuality, radical feminism and all the other things which are meant to prove something. I was fascinated to hear him quote from a questionnaire which had been circulated by the Women's Action Alliance. I have answered questionnaires from the Women's Electoral Lobby, the Women's Action Alliance and many other groups who issue questionnaires, usually at the time of an election. I have been happy to answer them if I have had time. I have also noted that frequently those groups say that the results of the questionnaires will be made public. 
None of those groups has ever said to me that the questionnaire would be made available on a selective basis to certain members of parliament to use as they saw fit in the chamber. If I answer a questionnaire and make it available to an interest group that group is free to make the results available. There are some fascinating results. For example, I recall that during the 1 975 general election campaign I answered a questionnaire for the Women's Electoral Lobby. The Lobby scored it and although it did not realese the answers it released the scores. I was slightly surprised to find that on the subject of women's rights I ranked below my Queensland colleague,  Senator Glen  Sheil and others. However, it is the business of WEL how it scores its questionnaires. 
The Women 's Action Alliance has never made available to me my score on any basis. It has certainly never offered me copies of questionnaires that have been answered by my parliamentary colleagues or by co-candidates or opposing candidates in elections. I find it offensive that it offers it on a selective basis to certain members of parliament or candidates. It really reflects sadly on the Alliance's credibility. One of the things that I find particularly sad about this aspect is that the women in the community who are attempting to organise themselves politically do so from a certain disadvantage compared with most men. They do it from the disadvantage that it is only fairly recently that women have become aware of the fact that they have political muscle and that through organising themselves in women's groups they can exercise that muscle. It is very sad to see these women's groups exploited by male politicians who are well practised in the art of exploitation of community groups. I only hope that these women's groups will learn in time that by allowing themselves to be open to such exploitation they destroy their credibility and the credibility of a point of view which may be perfectly legitimate and which they wish to put in relation to women. 
As I said at the beginning of my speech, it is impossible reasonably to debate nonsense. I just make an appeal to  Senator Harradine.  I have great respect for his intellect and for his personal and political courage. I have heard him speak on many subjects and listened with great interest. Unfortunately on the subject of women he is completely one-eyed. He puts forward a point of view which has legitimacy, certainly, amongst a certain section of the community but which, I suggest, has no general legitimacy. If he were to come into this place and put forward his theory on what Australian women ought to be doing and what their opportunities ought to be I would be delighted to debate it with him on that basis, but I serve notice on him that if he embarks on the sort of attack that he made tonight he will be involved in long debates on the adjournment in which his speech will be analysed in a way which 
I have not done tonight out of respect for the dme and the patience of the Senate and he will be required in future to justify his utterances on this subject, which is a subject on which, frankly, he has showed himself so far to be grossly illinformed. 
-I say in brief response to the speech we have just heard from  Senator Walsh  that he illustrates that the Labor Party is at least consistent in Opposition and in government. Its economic adventurism has not changed despite the lessons it should have learnt from December 1972 to December 1975. This Government- the Liberal and National Country Parties- in Opposition and in government has pursued a consistently responsible line towards the management of the economy of this country. It is so easy in politics to take a soft option at all times and to encourage people to believe that if they ask they will receive. That is the sort of encouragement that  Senator Walsh  had in his speech tonight. But in fact governments face difficult decisions and have to take a responsible line. 
I believe the Government since its election in December 1975 has consistently been responsible to all Australian people in recognising that if our economy is not well and soundly based then we do not have a country with a soundly based future.  Senator Walsh  may rant and rave all he likes and he may indeed throw in his obnoxious references to certain individuals in the Cabinet, as he did right at the end of his speech and which under different circumstances would have merited the taking of a point of order. But the facts remain that the policies which have been pursued by the Fraser Government have moved a long way towards restoring this country to some sound basis of future operation. I believe the people of Australia understand that and accept it and do not accept that in 1975 this country had any such prospect. I believe that in 1975 Australians recognised that they were taken on a ruinous path by the previous Labor Government which chose the soft options at nearly every turn except when it panicked at the last stages of government and reversed some of its early decisions. 
This evening we are debating specifically some taxation Bills. I do not intend to speak at any length. I rise to speak specifically to one issue and to make a brief comment on another. The issue on which I wish to comment is the income tax provisions proposal for the lump sum retirement payments for unused leave. As I said, the Government has faced many difficult decisions. Nearly all of them I support. However, I regret that the Government has deemed it necessary to pursue the course it has pursued in this particular case. I accept, however, that the Government has the right to pursue the course it has taken. I regret that the Government did not choose to pursue the same course with unused annual leave as it did with unused long service leave in relation to taxation. 
I make it quite clear that I have no objection to the new taxation arrangements on long service leave and accrued annual leave as from 15 August. A condition prevailed previously whereby only 5 per cent of any lump sum was subject to tax. That condition is to be changed. I think it is reasonable that taxation should be paid on long service leave and annual leave as it would be paid if it were taken as such- that is, as holidays or as long service leave. I do not think it is unreasonable that a higher rate of tax should be paid on it. The Government has been generous in deciding that the payments should be taxed at no more than the standard rate. That I welcome because there could have been some anomalies and injustices otherwise. What I regret is that the Government has chosen, as I said, to treat holiday pay in a different way from long service leave. 
I think that all of us know some cases of people who for reasons usually beyond their control have not been able to take their annual leave in full each year. Many awards allow workers to accumulate large amounts of annual leave. They do not require them to take their full amount of annual leave each year. People have accumulated leave for a variety of motives. Until this Budget it was possible for people to accumulate leave in the expectation that on resigning from a job they would pay a low rate of taxation on it. I know of cases where people have deliberately accumulated leave and have made decisions not to take their full leave so that they could get a lump sum payment at a low rate of taxation for sound financial reasons. The case that concerns me particularly, however, is that of the lower income earner who will resign from a job and take accumulated long service leave or holiday pay and possibly superannuation available to him. He will use that money for some very sound reason such as putting a deposit on a home. The money has accumulated in a way in which lower income earners could not otherwise have accumulated it. They put it towards their future security. 
People have made decisions relating to the taking of their annual leave or long service leave according to the law which prevailed at that time. Many people have made the decision not to take that leave in the expectation that they would receive a financial benefit for good reasons whether it be for putting a deposit on a home, as 
I have mentioned, a deposit which they would not otherwise have been able to accumulate, or to move into financially independent status through investment in a business. The rules have now been changed for those people. I think that is unfortunate. I do not think it is for governments to say that people ought to take their annual leave every year. For example, while tribunals might decide that there should be, say, four weeks annual leave for most workers, perhaps more for others, I do not think that we'can conclude that those workers necessarily have to take that amount of leave each year. Industrial tribunals also make decisions such as people not being required to work any more than 40 hours per week. Many people in the community work those 40 hours and then move on to a second part time job. They choose to increase their incomes that way. People make all sorts of choices about how they will improve their economic situation either in terms of income or future investr ment in lump sums. That is their right under the prevailing law. 
It is unfortunate that a large number of people will have decided not to take their annual leave believing that they were thereby earning money which they could use in the future in a way that they had chosen to use it. Now that option is closed to them. I would have preferred the Government to have been equally generous with holiday pay as it has been with long service leave. I do not accept for one minute that annual leave is necessarily different from long service leave. People accrue long service leave. They are not required to take their long service leave as soon as they are eligible for it. They can accrue a very large amount of long service leave before they avail themselves of that benefit. We have not attempted to draw the moral judgment that they ought to be taking their long service leave just as there have been suggestions of a moral judgment that people ought to take their annual leave. It is a matter of individual choice. 
The honourable senator may not. It is a matter of individual choice - 
I appreciate  Senator McAuliffe  's trying to improve on my speech. I indicate to him that the aspect that he is trying to raise is the next part of my speech. He should be patient. As usual, he is a little ahead of me. I am coming to that point. As I was saying before I was interrupted, people ought to be able to make that choice. It is not for governments to sit in moral judgment. There are also those people who have not been able to take their full amount of leave. As  Senator McAuliffe  generously pointed out, the Queensland railway workers are in that situation. They are by no means unique. A number of individual cases have come to me over the past few weeks. One cannot categorise the types of worker involved but an individual arrangement has been entered into between employer and employee. The employee has agreed to a request from the employer to take less than the full amount of annual leave per year. That was a decision between the individuals involved. It was a decision which apparently carried some risk to the employee of which he was unaware. 
In deciding that he or she did not wish to take the full amount of leave it is quite possible that one of the compensations for not having full annual leave each year in the minds of those employees was that at the time they took their full amount of leave entitlement at least there would be an additional financial benefit for them in that only 5 per cent of the amount of money involved would be subject to tax. In fact, workers who have not taken their full annual leave have earned a deferred income. Without any doubt they have earned that income in the past although it will not be paid until the future. There is an argument that that is the risk people run. Laws change. When making the decision in the past people were running the risk that the law would change in the future and that a new system of taxation would prevail. I will accept that argument as a principle but I do not see why the principle is different for annual leave as against long service leave. I would have preferred that the Government had applied the same principle to annual leave as it has to long service leave. 
As I said earlier the decision the Government has made in relation to the rate of taxation at which the payments will be assessed, is a welcome one. I think that there would possibly have been room for the Government to look at discretionary cases. I know that there are difficulties involved but without a doubt many cases have come to us of people who have not been able to take their leave. Large sums of money have been involved. People have accepted the situation that they could not take their leave because there was some additional financial benefit for them. Most of that benefit has now gone. Nevertheless, that was one of the many difficult decisions the Government has made in relation to the Budget. 
Finally, I wish to say a couple of words on the incensed rantings of  Senator Walsh  against the rate of taxation. It is ludicrous for any Labor member of Parliament, particularly one who was a member of the previous Labor Government, to rise in this place and to criticise the increased rate of taxation. The Labor Party increased taxation by stealth and deceit. It was well aware that it was increasing the taxation take enormously. It did not attempt - 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- I do npt believe that there is a point of order. The word has been used on a number of occasions on both sides of the chamber. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy President.  Let me say that the Labor Government stealthily and possibly deliberately increased the rate of taxation. As I was saying, at no stage did it attempt to justify to the Australian people the fact that it had increased the taxation take and would make no move in the direction of reducing the taxation burden. The taxation provisions that we have introduced in government have been very much to the benefit of the average Australian taxpayer. I believe that Australians accept that governments have the right, as long as they do it clearly and honestly, to vary the rate of taxation. The Government has stated what it is doing in relation to the rate of taxation, as against the Whitlam Government's methods of increasing taxation without giving any sort of explanation or rationale for doing so. I think that the .Australian people will accept that, given the present budgetary situation of the Government, we as citizens can tolerate a slightly higher rate of taxation in the next 12 months. The rate is not a high one and the taxation benefits that have been enjoyed by Australians under the Fraser Government are real ones, and the Australian people are well aware of this. 
I commend to the Senate in principle most of these Bills. I have indicated my reservation in relation to one of the Bills. I indicate very briefly also that in the Bill relating to tax averaging for primary producers a great deal more might be involved than  Senator Walsh  said. I have had difficult cases brought to me by primary producers in Queensland, particularly beef producers. The Government has attempted consistently to make sure that the taxation system applies fairly to primary producers. The phasingout of tax averaging when income is earned from another source may have an unfortunate consequence. I emphasise that this might be so particularly in relation to people who have been in a very poor economic situation in recent years. In Queensland that is notably our beef producers. Many of our beef producers have had to go out and take often quite menial and not particularly highly paid jobs and have had to leave their wives and families on their properties. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order!  Senator Martin  is speaking. 
The wives and families are running the properties so that they can maintain them. Alternatively, wives have had to leave the properties and take other - 

 - Mr Deputy President, I find  Senator McAuliffe  's interjections tedious. I said for 15 minutes what my attitude is on the taxation on annual leave payments. This time  Senator McAuliffe  is 15 minutes behind me, not 2 minutes ahead of me. If he likes to read my speech in  Hansard  tomorrow he will find out what my attitude is. I am sorry that he was not listening when I indicated what it was. 
Honourable senators will find out in my speech; they will not have to wait until a division is called. 
I was speaking on the matter of taxation in relation to primary producers and was pointing out that a large number of primary producers who in recent years have been in an extreme economic situation might well be upset by this provision. I think that the Government might have to look more closely at the actual effect of this provision. I do not have any particular objection to people earning income from another source if the money that they are earning is going back into the primary production area and into our country towns. I think the notion that  Senator Walsh  put forward when he criticised even the $5,000 to $10,000 income range being kept is quite false. I think that there are benefits for the development of our rural areas, which is the development of our whole nation and whole economy, in allowing people or giving them particular incentives to involve themselves in investment in primary production areas, even if they are not fulltime primary producers, regardless of whether their reason for not being fulltime primary producers is one of choice or one of necessity, as has been the case with many of our beef producers, particularly in Queensland although I think probably also in Western Australia in recent times. 
In brief summary, I say that I support the general thrust of the Government's Budget. I accept that many of the measures that it has been necessary for it to take, particularly in the taxation area, are justified and will have the desired and right benefits. I look forward, as all of us do, to a time when Australia will return to the prosperity which it knew before the time of the Labor Government, when a few more of those softer options can be taken up by government. Of course, it is always easier to be popular and to do the things that win plaudits; it is much harder to be responsible. The Australian Labor Party has shown by the contribution to this debate by its members that it has learnt nothing either in government or in opposition on that particular subject. 
No  Senator shall  use offensive words against either House of Parliament or any Member of such House, or of any House of a State Parliament, or against any Statute, unless for the purpose of moving for its repeal, and all imputations of improper motives and all personal reflections on Members shall be considered highly disorderly. 
Will you explain to the Senate why you ruled that there was no substance to my point of order when Standing Order 4 1 8 makes that provision? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I ruled in the first place that there was no point of order, and I do so again. 
I do not wish to prolong unnecessarily consideration of these Bills. I just rise for a couple of minutes to set the record straight in relation to my attitude and how it was represented here earlier today by  Senator McLaren.  Last night when I spoke to the Bill which relates to taxation on holiday pay I said that whilst I did not particularly like the policy nevertheless I was persuaded that it was not a retrospective tax and for that reason I would not be voting against it.  Senator Rae  had quite a bit to say in here this morning on that subject. I think his views pretty well sum up my view on that aspect. I would not like it to remain on the record unchallenged that  Senator McLaren  has been able to assert that I stated I was against something but that I would not vote against it. I made it very clear when I spoke that I was critical of the measure. I said that I was sorry that the Government had not seen fit to treat holiday pay and long service leave in the same way. I was not persuaded to vote against it on the ground that it was a retrospective tax. 
I think it is always open to honourable senators here to indicate their opinions of certain policies but because they are critical of them or perhaps not as happy as they might be with some aspects of the policies it does not oblige them to cross the floor. Of course, it ill behoves  Senator McLaren  or any honourable senator on the other side of the chamber- as honourable senators opposite did last night persistently during my speech- to say that not to vote against the matter was going against what I had said. At least honourable senators on this side of the chamber can indicate that we would have preferred that different courses of action be taken. But we are prepared to support Government policy and accept that it is part of the overall Budget strategy. I say that just to set the record straight about what I actually did say last night and my reasons for speaking and acting as I did. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, relates to the problems which have arisen in Queensland in the last 24 hours regarding the export of live cattle. Is the Minister aware that the current problem has its sources in a four-year ban on the export of live cattle which has been imposed by the Australasian Meat Industry Employees Union? Is the Minister aware that live cattle have been loaded and shipped from Queensland recently under an arrangement reached by the AMIEU and the Cattlemen's Union? Since it is clearly possible to reach agreement with the union to ship live cattle, what action does the Government intend to take? Is the Minister aware that there is currently a 24-hour stoppage in meat works in Queensland as a result of an attempt by the livestock agent concerned to ship cattle outside the agreement, which clearly has serious implications for Queensland? In view of the importance of our beef export trade- live and otherwise- to Australia, but particularly to Queensland, and in view of the fact that this dispute is four years old, what action does the Government intend to take to try to overcome the difficulties with that union? 
If we had been on air today- of course, as a result of an Australian Broadcasting Commission industrial dispute we are not- and the Commission could hear what was actually being said in this chamber, I think that by now even it would be confused about what it thinks, or is alleged to think, on this subject. We have had all manner of statements, notably from  Senator Douglas  McClelland, as to what the attitude of the ABC is supposed to be, alleged to be and quoted to be. A number of quotations have been made on the subject and I shall allude to one or two of them. I begin by putting the record straight, as  Senator Douglas  McClelland said that he would do. Early in his speech he said that he would put the record straight on certain matters, but he then proceeded to laud the Whitlam Government's funding of the ABC and its attitude towards it, meanwhile damning the current LiberalNational Country Party Government. 
I turn to the very report that  Senator Douglas  McClelland mentioned, the annual report of the ABC for the year July 1 977 to June 1 978, at page 7 of which there is a graph showing allocations for national broadcasting, expressed as a percentage of total Federal Government expenditure- a point on which the Opposition, and  Senator Douglas  McClelland in particular, made great play. I note that the greatest proportion of Federal Government expenditure ever allocated to the ABC was allocated during the year 1962-63 which, as we recall, was one of the Menzies administrations. Expenditure next peaked, a little lower in proportional terms, under the McMahon Government of 1 972-73. It then went into a very rapid and steady decline under the Whitlam Government. I emphasise that this graph appears in the ABC's report. It seems to indicate something different from the rather frenetic message that  Senator Douglas  McClelland has just sought to give us. 
Yes, as a percentage of total Federal Government expenditure, so it is on a proportional basis in relation to something else. I repeat, it indicates something rather different from the dire sort of message that  Senator Douglas  McClelland was seeking to present. Anyone- and not just the ABC- might be excused for wondering during the honourable senator's speech just what the debate was really all about. I note that the subject that  Senator Ryan  wished to have debated concerned an alleged disruption caused to the national broadcasting services- a disruption which, she alleges, has been caused by the attacks of the Government on staffing and standards. So the central issues involved are whether the national broadcasting service has been disrupted and whether this has been brought about by alleged Government attacks on staffing and standards. I have a view on that which I would now like to put. 
The alleged attack on the ABC, which was referred to again by  Senator Douglas  McClelland, is of course, even in his own terms, nothing of the sort. There is a very particular situation which obtains in this country- and I do not intend this afternoon to waste any of my precious time on it by canvassing it yet again- which has meant that certain cutbacks in Government expenditure have been made. The ABC, as a broadcasting service, has had to face its own responsibilities in relation to these cuts. The alleged consequences of the decline in revenue are just not borne out by the actions of the Government or the statements made by representatives of the ABC. 
I am informed that when the ABC was submitting its estimates for the 1978-79 financial year it was invited to indicate those levels of expenditure which it believed necessary to maintain its current level and quality of operation. The ABC was granted the appropriations it asked for. It decided what it needed, it indicated that to the Government, and it was successful. I accept that there has been a decline in the proportion of total annual expenditure, but I emphasise that that has not happened this year. It is not even something which started to happen under the Fraser Government. That decline was well under way in the early days of the Whitlam Government. The ABC just has to accept, as do other instrumentalities, that it is in a particular position in relation to government funding and that when government funding is tight as it is now- it never appeared to be tight under the Whitlam Government but it is tight now as a consequence of that laxity of budgeting by the Whitlam Government- it has to play its role. 
That leads us, of course, to a consideration of whether standards will be affected in the manner forecast by  Senator Ryan.  I will talk about standards later. The Government has the right to determine its own financial policy for the country and, in that context, the level of funds which will be provided to the ABC. Nobody can dispute that. The ABC is in the same position as is any other government financed agency. It must see its funding in the context of the national Budget. The national Government has the right, which the ABC accepts, to decide what the priorities are within that national Budget. I daresay that that is a point of view which Labor senators would have advanced very vigorously when the Whitlam Labor Government, during its brief term in office, was exerting its right in exactly the same way towards the ABC. I notice that at the hearing of this famous Estimates Committee, the evidence of which has been quoted so often in this debate,  Mr Mackriell  made a statement which I think gives that indication. I refer to page 755 of the  Hansard  report of Estimates Committee F of 19 October 1978.  Mr Mackriell  is reported as saying: 
I would like to be able to say that we could set aside economics. 
We all would. We are all human. However,  Mr Mackriell  went on to say: 
I am afraid I cannot. 
That is the human condition too. He continued: 
We are limited by a budget; we are limited by staff; and we have to make decisions with regard to priorities . . . 
That is the normal human condition and it is a normal governmental agency condition. It is also a normal government condition. Governments are constrained by the amount of money available to them and by economic circumstances. If the ABC sees itself as being in that position, that is a very healthy sign. 
Much comment has been made about staff cuts. We are hearing quite a lot about them at the moment, and we are experiencing some of the effects of staff cuts. I suggest that the true situation has been put out of all proportion.  Senator Ryan  makes a particular reference to staffing in the terms of her matter of public importance. As we mentioned earlier in this debate, the simple fact is that the situation is under review. The staff ceilings as at 30 June 1978 was 6,300. In March 1978 that figure was increased to 6,400, a ceiling which was to apply until 30 September 1978. I am informed, however, that the bureaucratic mysteries of life in Australia required that a staff ceiling be set for 30 June 1979 and that this has caused some sort of heartache. The fact is that the review has been agreed to by the Government. The review is proceeding and nobody knows what the outcome of it will be. I am certainly optimistic that the Government will be sympathetic, because I think the Government clearly wants to maintain a high standard national broadcasting service. At this point in time nobody can say that it has not; in fact, the evidence is to the contrary. It clearly understands the particular problems of a national broadcasting service. It has had long experience of them. I believe with great confidence that the Government will make the right staffing decision in that review.  Senator Ryan,  I understand, on behalf of the Opposition, indicated that there should be some sort of royal commission into what is happening in the ABC because of Government action. 

 - Mr Staley probably does think so. I would not disagree with him. He is the Minister responsible for the ABC. That is his right. I say to  Senator Ryan  that I intend to have my two bob 's worth as a senator. I point out that the Green report had something to say about it too. The Green report, which followed an inquiry into the ABC, stated that the services provided by the Commission should be subject to independent periodic review by public inquiry, with the first such review being scheduled , for 1980. 1 am informed that the ABC supports that recommendation. So it might appear to be just a little precipitate at the moment for  Senator Ryan  to be pushing that angle so hard. Nobody is opposed to inquiries being conducted into the ABC, but the overtones of great urgency and the allegations that because of Government attacks the service is in danger of collapse are, of course, quite false, and exposes the whole Opposition charge as a trumped up case. 
The third aspect of the debate has been standards.  Senator Douglas  McClelland said that he intended to put the record straight on standards, but he did nothing of the sort, as I indicated earlier in my speech. There has been a decline in the Australian content of ABC programs. In the context of the so-called sustained attack that we are making on staffing and conditions as well as standards via funding, it is interesting to note that in the period June 1976 to June 1977 there was approximately 60 per cent Australian content in ABC programming. In the subsequent year, which of course is the year ended June 1978, it had declined dramatically to 58 per cent. That hardly indicates the sort of collapse that the Opposition would like the people of Australia and maybe even the Senate to believe is under way. It does not indicate anything of the sort. 
It is nothing like that, as  Senator Baume  has just indicated in vigorous agreement with me. I wish to make just one other point. So far in this debate the ABC's annual report for the year ended June 1977 has been extensively quoted for its references to the subject of standards. This year's report also has been referred to. Extracts on the same subject from the Estimates Committee hearings also have been quoted. I wish to make a brief reference to some quotes myself. In the 1977 report the  Chairman  of the ABC indicated that the Commission was confident of its ability to adapt to new circumstances while maintaining the character and quality of the ABC's program output. I refer again to the evidence given to the Estimates Committee by the now well known  Mr Mackriell  on the subject of output over the last year.  Mr Mackriell  was asked by  Senator Watson  about the effectiveness of ABC reporting as a result of the staff cuts to which  Mr Mackriell  had referred earlier.  Mr Mackriell  said: 
My own feeling is that it would be very difficult for anyone to quantify just how far the quality has or has not fallen. 
I expect that he includes even Opposition senators in his assessment that it is difficult for anyone to quantify that matter. He went on to state: 
It is exceedingly difficult. While we have been under enormous pressure with regard to staff in particular, it being a very labour-intensive business, I want to assert that for the most part the quality of ABC reporting, whether it be news, public affairs or science, has not deteriorated. 

 Senator Watson then ventured the further question: 
In quality and diversity. 

 Mr Mackriell said: 
Indeed. As I say, it is very difficult for anybody, I believe, to put a tape measure against it. If I were pressed I would say that I think it has not deteriorated to any marked extent. 
That evidence, of course, complies with the following statement made by the  Chairman  of the ABC in this year's annual report. 
The economies effected have brought some measure of discomfort to the organisation but this, we believe, has not been apparent to our audience. 
The ABC is not saying that the economies which have been necessary have resulted in any disruption to or decline in the national broadcasting service. Indeed, all the evidence that we can get on the record on the subject seems to indicate that the ABC, while accepting that it has had to try harder to maintain its standards, nevertheless has managed to achieve that objective under the sort of constraints which apply to it. I reiterate in the final seconds of my speech that they are constraints which apply to all areas of government at the moment, and indeed to private areas as well in this country, as a result of economic necessities. I suggest that, interesting though the debate may have been, the allegations put forward by the Opposition in relation to the national broadcasting service are not based on fact. No facts have been presented to justify the claims made in the terms of the subject matter of this debate. 
I bring up the report of Estimates Committee A on the particulars of proposed expenditure for the year 1978-79, together with the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware that Channel 7 and Channel 9 in Queensland were successful recently in getting broadcasting rights for international sporting functions in football and tennis, and cricket respectively? Is the Minister aware that large areas of Queensland are covered only by the Australian Broadcasting Commission and that the achievements of the commercial channels in arranging sporting tie-ups means that many Queenslanders will not receive a telecast of these sporting events? Is the Minister further aware that Channel 7 and Channel 9 have indicated to the Australian Broadcasting Commission their preparedness to allow the Commission to beam these programs into areas which are not covered by the commercial networks and that the Commission has not accepted this offer? Can the Minister tell me why this has happened? 
by leave- I table additional information received by Estimates Committee A and seek leave for it to be incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 

 -Mr Chairman, I am sorry to do this but I was in a Minister's office discussing something in relation to Estimates Committee A when consideration of its group of departments concluded. I crave the indulgence of the Committee to go back briefly to the report of Estimates Committee A. 
Leave granted. 
As I mentioned, I was providing some information to a Minister's office on the subject that I want to raise in the debate. I did not realise that we were going to finish so quickly the consideration of the departments dealt with by Estimates Committee A. The matter I wish to raise relates to questions asked about the Auditor-General's Office. The Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  might have been given an indication that this subject was going to be raised today although it was dealt with by the Committee of the Whole yesterday. I apologise to the Committee for not being here yesterday to deal with this subject then. There is an issue of some principle in relation to the evidence given by officers of the Auditor-General's Office before Estimates Committee A which the Committee of the Whole should note and probably form an opinion on. I refer to questions which I asked and which appear starting on page 92 1 of the Senate Estimates Committee  Hansard  of 23 October 1978 seeking information on annual reports of departments and statutory corporations. I asked a question about when reports had been received, which reports were currently under scrutiny by the Auditor-General's Office and which reports had been finalised since 1 July 1978. In the supplementary information table for this Estimates Committee there is a letter dated 25 October 1978 from the Auditor-General's Office which refers to a number of items and on the third page it refers to my question. It contains the following statement: 
The Acting Auditor-General has explained to the  Chairman  - 
That is to me-  that it was the intention to include information in relation to the receipt and processing of financial statements of statutory authorities and certain departmental activities in the Supplementary Report of the Auditor-General for 1977-78 which is in course of preparation. In this context paragraph 21.1 of the Supplementary Report of the Auditor-General for 1976-77 is relevant. Reference was also made to the procedural difficulty posed by the request which would have required information to be supplied to a committee of the Parliament in advance of that information being transmitted to the whole Parliament. 
It was signed by  Mr V.  McMahon, Acting Assistant Auditor-General. 
I have had a number of conversations with  Mr McMahon  and the Auditor-General on this subject. My concern and the concern of my Committee as expressed in its report was a claim that information should not be given to an Estimates Committee when that information is at some time in the future due to be transmitted to the whole Parliament. My particular concern was that it seemed to me that if we accept that answer we rule out the possibilities of Estimates committees pursuing a lot of information because it can be said that since a statutory corporation or some other body is obliged to put in a report to the Parliament and because the information sought would be contained in the report, Estimates committees should not require answers which involved the giving of that information. Estimates committees are a little more than committees of the Parliament. An Estimates committee is the Senate in its functions. Estimates Committee A noted its concern on that point in its report and I am sure that other honourable senators have taken note of it. Estimates Committee A also commented on a claim of procedural difficulty which might be relevant to the Audit Amendment Bill 1978 but that is another matter. 
I note that other Estimates committees also have expressed some concern about reports, the principle of reports, and the fact that we are receiving reports in Parliament sometimes years  after the year to which the reports relate. I refer particularly to Estimates Committee B report in which concern was expressed about a report for the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. That Estimates Committee in its report to the Senate said: 
The Committee commends to the Senate, for general application, the recommendation of the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations in relation to the Australian Housing Corporation Annual Report .1974-75 that:'. . . if a Report, with accounts in a form approved by the Department of Finance, and/or the AuditorGeneral's Report, is not ready for presentation to the Parliament within 9 months of the end of the previous financial year, then the Minister should, within 1 5 sitting days, present an interim report to the Parliament on the Corporation's activities, together with informal financial statements, and an explanation for the unavailability of the unaudited accounts. ' 
My concern during the meeting of the Estimates Committee related to a number of reports and to one in particular, namely, the report of the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation. My concern also related to the general concern which has been expressed in the Senate on the subject of the lateness of reports from departments and statutory corporations. When we were looking at this general question from me to the Auditor-General I noted my particular reason for asking it. My reason was that if a honourable senator attempts to pursue the reasons that a report has not been tabled in the Parliament it is not uncommon to have two excuses used. One excuse is that the report is with the AuditorGeneral and has been held up and, therefore, cannot be tabled. The other excuse is that it is with the Government Printer and that is the reason for the delay. When one tries to pursue those excuses one tends to get into the endless motion-type activity. Usually there are denials from both the Auditor-General and the Government Printer that they are the ones responsible for holding up reports. Frankly, I doubt that the Auditor-General or the Government Printer is to blame for the extreme delay that we experience in receiving reports of any sort, interim or otherwise, from departments and statutory corporations. That was my motive for pursuing the question. I explained that and we have proceeded from there. 
Nevertheless, there was reference in  Mr McMahon's  letter to the procedural difficulty posed by the request for information to be given to an Estimates committee in advance of it being given to the Parliament. I subsequently had a discussion with the Auditor-General which I thought was a private conversation between him and me as a member of the Estimates Committee. He has since written a letter to me as 
Chairman of the Senate Estimates Committee. I mention that because I would not want other members of the Estimates Committee to think that I was having conversations with the Auditor-General which would pre-empt the opinion of the Estimates Committee as a whole. I thought that my conversation with the AuditorGeneral was an exchange of views on the subject between him and me. There is nothing sinister about that. However, he has written a letter to me which I think ought to go into the record. I am sure that he would not object to that course. The relevant part of this letter states: 
I have now decided that to assist Estimates Committees I will include in future Annual Reports (which normally are presented to the Parliament sufficiently early to be available to Senate Estimates Committees prior to their inquiries) a schedule broadly comparable to those shown at paragraph 21.1 of my Supplementary Report for the year ended June 1 977, and to be included in my next Supplementary Report which I hope will be presented to the Parliament this month. 
At this stage I do not propose to include in this schedule information regarding the receipt by the Office of financial statements for those authorities which balance at the previous 30 June as only a small number would, by the date of preparation of the Annual Report, have lodged financial statements with this Office. The schedules would, however, set out information relating to those authorities which balance immediately prior to that date . . . 
That is, 30 June- 
. and whose financial statements either have not been received or not processed. 
I trust the inclusion of this information in Annual Reports will assist Estimates Committees in their consideration of the problem. 
The inclusion of that information will bc helpful. However, with the limitation that it would not apply to those reports due on 30 June and given that we get the Auditor-General's report in the Parliament usually at the end of September, some three months later, I think the acceptance of that limitation when requesting the Auditor-General for that particular information, which is very simple information, would make the ability of the Auditor-General to help us very limited indeed. In my conversation with the Auditor-General he indicated the section of the Audit Act which he believed precluded him from providing an Estimates committee with the requested information, which was simply: Date of receipt of the report, date on which the Auditor-General cleared it and which reports were currently with him. No details were required about the content of the report or why reports might have been held up. He indicated to me that he believed that section 14C of the Audit Act was the section which would have precluded him from making that information available to the Estimates Committee. I read section 14C, amongst other sections of the Audit Act, and in my humble opinion I do not think it does preclude the Auditor-General from providing that information which I requested to an Estimates committee. 
The reason I raise the matter is twofold. I think there is a general principle involved for Estimates committees in relation to the information that they can seek from any department or statutory corporation before an Estimates Committee. Can we accept an assertion that information is going to appear subsequently in a Frankly which can appear at any time- weeks, months, even years after the question is actually asked at an Estimates committee? Does that not severely hinder Estimates committees? Should we accept that limitation? I would suggest not. 
The second point relates specifically to that information requested of the Auditor-General at this time as to whether section  14c  of the Audit Act has the effect which has been suggested. It is a rather large subject to have raised and there are some limitations of time in Committee of the Whole. I did rather belatedly deliver to the Minister's office a copy of a letter from the Auditor-General to me plus a copy of that section of the Audit Act. I am not sure whether he is able to give a quick reply in relation to that matter. I am not sure whether the Auditor-General's Office has not itself sought the AttorneyGeneral's opinion some time in the past in relation to that section of the Audit Act. Perhaps the Minister could give the Committee his opinion on, firstly, whether we can seek in Estimates committee information which will subsequently appear in a report; and, secondly, whether the Auditor-General has not been altogether too restrictive in his interpretation of section  14c  of the Audit Act in response to this question. If he has taken too restrictive a view of the Audit Act, I would still like to have the information. 
-In the light of that answer from the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  perhaps he could seek some further information which could follow on from the advice he might receive. Section  1 4C  sub-section  4  of the Audit Act states: 
The last preceding sub-section shall not prevent the making, divulging or communicating, in any report of the Auditor-General, of conclusions, observations or recommendations which are based on information obtained in pursuance of section 13, 14 or 14b of this Act. 
I reiterate that in my opinion the AuditorGeneral is not precluded from divulging the sort of information for which I asked. However, if he is, it seems to me, when looking at sub-section  4  and the words '. . . any report of the Auditor-General' he is really treating the annual report of the Auditor-General as the only one in which that information can be given. Therefore I ask the Minister whether in pursuing this matter- it appears that the Attorney-General may advise that there would be difficulties in providing the information I requested- it would not be possible to request the Auditor-General to give a special report on this subject, perhaps at the time when Estimates committees are sitting, so that through all departments and statutory corporations information can be sought and matters pursued on the basis of the information we may receive from the Auditor-General. In fact, if such a report report possible, could not a verbal report or a brief written report at an Estimates committee constitute the sort of report to which I refer? If the Auditor-General is of the opinion that because he is an officer of the Parliament and can report only to the Parliament, I do not see that as a particular obstacle. We can argue whether a Estimates committee, because it is a Senate committee, is receiving information on behalf of the Parliament. In any event, before Estimates committees sit it would be possible, if the Auditor-General knew that general information was required, to provide it to the Parliament in a very simple form, but in a form that could be labelled a report; if that gets us around the Audit Act but helps the committees to function more satisfactorily. 
I  am sorry to be late again,  Mr Chairman.  This time I was involved in a collision with one of the Hansard reporters in the corridor as I tried to get into the chamber to discuss the estimates for the Department of Primary Industry. I understand that that is the Department from which the Committee has just moved. I wonder whether I could raise a couple of points in relation to those estimates. 
I have explained briefly the circumstances and I seek leave to speak on the estimates for the Department of Primary Industry. 
Leave granted. 
I want to pursue a couple of points which came up during the sittings of Estimates Committee D. One is a point I hoped to raise in the Estimates Committee but I missed the critical time because the Committee finished consideration of the estimates for the Department of Primary Industry more quickly than I expected. The Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  will recall that on the subdivision relating to expenditure for beef classification I asked a number of questions concerning the $2m which was being appropriated under the estimates for the Department of Primary Industry, to be spent by the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation. Some supplementary information was given in papers which were subsequently tabled in the Parliament. A number of questions were asked about what the $2m was for. A statement was made to the effect that the $2 m was not automatically made available for AMLC use and was subject to ministerial approval. There were also some extraordinary statements that members of the Department were not sure what the $2m was for. I made the comment at the time that this seemed out of keeping with the general basis of government funding and that it was extraordinary that the Government should ask for $2m in the Budget apparently having agreed to the request- without knowing the breakdown of that money. 
There was much toing and froing on the subject of consultants and whether we could be given some information. I want to put that on the record in the debate of these estimates in the Committee of the Whole. Some rough breakdown was given to us of the $2m including money to appoint engineering and computer consultants. I asked for details about that. I said at the time that I believed that was a fairly standard practice in Estimates committees. A check of the  Hansard  report of other Estimates committees will show that requests for details relating to the employment of consultants from public funds are common and that the information is fairly freely given. The Minister at the time pursued an argument relating to commercial confidentiality but that argument was later dropped. I assume that he does not want to pursue it any further. I do not believe that it can be made in this case. 
Another matter which arose in the discussion concerned me in relation to the general operation of Estimates committees and the quality of information that they are given. On page 847 of the  Hansard  of Senate Estimates Committee D on 20 October 1978I asked: 
Can we have a breakdown of the $200,000 which is a fairly large sum? Did you say that a computer consultant was employed? 
A  Mr Rowe  who is listed as one of the departmental witnesses replied: 
A computer consultant is presently employed by the AMLC for this work. He was appointed only recently. 
I asked for further information. As I have mentioned, the Minister and I then had some debate as to whether I could ask for that information. Then, quite unannounced, a  Mr Mackey  introduced himself to the Committee and commenced answering questions on the subject. Mention of  Mr Mackey  first appears in  Hansard  at page 847. He is not listed as one of the witnesses from the Department of Primary Industry. As it happened, I knew who  Mr Mackey  was, but, as I said, he approached the table, introduced himself- which does not appear in the  Hansard  report- and then started to answer questions on the subject. 
It was clear from  Mr Rowe's  answer that a computer consultant had been employed by the AMLC.  Mr Rowe  made the comment: 'He was appointed only recently'. I understand from information which has come to me privately since then that the consultant at that stage had been appointed for four or five weeks. When we pursued the matter and the Minister indicated to witnesses that they could answer the questions, the information that we were given was rather different and led to my abandoning that line of questioning at the Estimates Committee. Page 850 of the  Hansard  report shows  Mr Mackey  as having said: 
I am not sure whether the arrangements in relation to the computing firm have been finalised. I would like to check on that before naming the computing firm. 
I do not know whether  Mr Rowe  could have named the computing firm but he did indicate quite firmly that the consultant had been employed, and fairly recently.  Mr Mackey  's answer raised a doubt whether the firm had been engaged and therefore the matter could not be pursued. The fact is that the firm had been engaged and its identity was no secret. That information appeared in supplementary evidence which came to the Committee. In fact, I knew by the time the supplementary information was available the name of the firm and how long it had been employed. It was no secret. But this difference in evidence from two witnesses meant that, at that time, the line of questioning had to be abandoned because we were given such equivocal information, and an indication from a witness who, at that stage, had taken it upon himself to answer questions, that the firm may not have been engaged and that, in any event, if it was he did not know about it and could not answer questions on it. That has some implications for the operations of Estimates committees. 
We have in the committees the opportunity to question not only Ministers but also the officers of departments. That procedure has been well established for some time. If officers appear who are not informed on aspects such as this or who give information which is, as in this case misleading, albeit not seriously misleading, one questions the value of the process and specifically of our having those officers available. I was concerned also at a question that  Mr Mackey  directed to the Minister during the debate in which we were involved, relating to whether questions could be asked and should be answered. Initially we had  Mr Rowe  answering questions quite freely. There followed this debate between the Minister and me and, in the end, I was asked to restate my question, which appears several pages further on in  Hansard.  Mr Mackey  said to the Minister: 
Do you wish me to answer this? 
It quite clearly is not for Ministers to determine whether or not officers will answer questions. There is a restriction on Estimates committees which relates to government policy. I do not think that anyone challenges that. If questions are asked relating to government policy, nobody expects that departmental officers should answer them. However, it has been established by the Senate as an important function of Estimates committees that senators may ask questions of fact of departmental officers. That is a right of senators; it is not subject to anybody else's ruling if- they are questions of fact, not of policydepartmental officers may answer. The question from  Mr Mackey  to the Minister 'Do you wish me to answer this?' cast a doubt on the functioning of the Committee at that time in the very important area of the right of senators to crossexamine departmental officers. It was unfortunate in the light of the information which subsequently has been made available to us that that question preceded a statement by the witness which indicated that in fact he could not answer the question because he did not have the information to answer it. At the time I had a number of reasons for raising this issue in the Estimates Committee which I would have sought to pursue then. I had previously given an indication of an interest in the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation and specifically its report for 1977-78. I would like briefly to touch on that. The Minister for Science as the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry in the Senate is aware of my concern. I have mentioned it in other Estimates committee hearings. It went on the record yesterday. I wonder whether, after all that forewarning, we could have an answer. One of the reasons for my concern about one area of operation of the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation concerns its report. Section 49 of the Australian Meat and Live-stock Corporation Act requires that the Corporation:  . . shall, as soon as practicable after 30 June in each year, prepare and furnish to the Minister a report of its operations during the year ended on that date, together with financial statements in respect of that year in such form as the Treasurer approves. 
The item to which I am referring, the provision of $2m, was for beef classification. I would have liked to have known what account the AMLC gives of itself on that subject of beef classification in its report. The report of course has not been received by the Parliament and presumably not by the Minister. But I have been reliably informed that for some time at the Sydney offices of the AMLC a document which is apparently called the 'Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation Annual Report 1977-78 (Preliminary)' has been available for inspection by interested parties if they have indicated to the AMLC that they would like to look at it. I express the strongest possible concern that when a statutory corporation which is required by Act of Parliament to report to the Parliament after presenting its report to the Minister has not reported to the Parliament, and there is no sign of its report at this stage, but has something which purports apparently to be some sort of draft report, called in this case a preliminary report, which is available to certain members of the public but has not been made available to the Parliament. The subject of that report I have raised, as I have said, on a number of occasions including during the hearings of another Estimates committee when it was considering the estimates of the AuditorGeneral's Department. I have also raised the matter in this chamber. I wonder whether the Minister can give an answer as to just what is the position with that report at the moment. Why has it been made available for scrutiny to people outside the Parliament when there is a clear statutory obligation on that Corporation to make that report available as soon as practicable to the Parliament. 
The Minister may or may not wish to comment on the comments I have made in relation to the value of the information that was received at the Estimates committees' hearings from departmental witnesses on specific information relating to employment of outside consultants from departmental funds or funds made available to a corporation, which is another subject in itself. Whether or not the Minister wishes to comment on that, I think that those matters should go on the record of this chamber as a note of some concern about one aspect of the functioning of at least one Estimates committee. 
Perhaps while the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  is getting clarification on that point I might clarify for him one small point that came up earlier relating to the breakdown of figures to which we have been referring. I refer the Minister to pages 850 and 851 of the  Hansard  record of the hearings of Estimates Committee B, which records my question: 
That again raises the curious situation that the AMLC can ask for $2m, one would have thought on the basis of some budget, and be given that amount and we can be given very little information about what the $2m is for. 

 Mr Mackey, in further comment on that, is recorded at page 85 1 of the  Hansard  record to have said: 
We can produce a breakdown of this S2m but I suggest that at this stage it would be artificial. That estimate was very much a figure that was pulled out of the air, not knowing how much would be needed this year. 
Just to clarify that point, while the Minister is getting information to answer the other question, at the Committee hearing we were told that a breakdown was available, although it was not made available to us at the time of the Committee hearing, when it would have been much more useful to us. We were also given an extraordinary statement that it was a figure that was plucked out of the air. That was the point I was making to the Minister. We were told that some breakdown was available. Unfortunately, it was not made available at the time of the Committee hearing, which was when it might have been a little more relevant. We were told that it was a pretty rough figure. I thought that the Minister ought to know that, in view of some of the statements he made a few minutes ago. I just give that information for clarification because he said that he did not have the  Hansard  record in front of him and did not know that that information had been provided. Those are the statements on which I based my comments. 
I should like to comment briefly. I would think that the Senate agrees with what  Senator Georges  has said. One of the reasons we ask the questions about these sorts of commercial arrangements at Estimates committee hearings is to ensure that the kickback procedure cannot be used. Public funds are being used for the employment of consultants and large sums of money end up being involved. Governments must be scrupulous about their handling of that money. I am not suggesting anything is wrong in relation to this matter. It seems to me that the Department of Primary Industry, the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation or someone else was being unduly sensitive in this case. The Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  made a statement on the basis of advice from his officers but I do not think any case has been made in relation to the Department of Primary Industry. There may be cases which one could consider on their merits but they would be few and far between. I cannot imagine how that would apply in this instance. 
The Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation is not in competition with anyone on the development of its beef classification scheme. It is doing something for the Government. Consultants are in competition with one another to get government funds. Once a consultancy contract has been let we are entitled to know who got it, and if we want to pursue it, how much money the consultant will receive. Other consultants are interested in that information insofar as they lost out. If there were ever any suggestion of wrong doing by the people letting those consulting contracts, then other consultants would know or have some idea from that information and they would be able to give to interested people the information they needed. I think it would take a very strong case to argue that a department should not give Estimates committees information in relation to consultants. I also thought that that would be the view of the Senate. The Minister was pursuing a hypothetical argument which may be justified in some cases. I reiterate that I think that to have taken that line and to have passed on that information in relation to the estimates for the Department of Primary Industry, which came from an officer, in this case is being unduly sensitive. I do not think we can go any further with this discussion at this stage. If this Department or other departments start to take this line at hearings of Estimates committees then I think the subject probably will be the matter of a full scale Senate debate and it will be settled then. 
I want to raise a couple of other points in relation to the vote of $2m for beef classification which came up at the Estimate Committee hearings and which I mentioned to the Minister at the time. He could not give any amplification on it. Perhaps he can give me some information now. I am referring to the method of funding which in this particular case is a little curious. In relation to this item, I refer to a report of Senate Estimates committees' chairmen which was received by the Senate at the end of the autumn session and, as I understand it, adopted unanimously. It related to the form of presentation of estimates of expenditure and to recommendations and comments that were made. I refer to the appendix to that report headed 'Estimates of Expenditure, Explanatory Notes', point 3(d) parts (v) and (vi). It is a general comment on the main items. Part (v) says that in the general comments section in Estimates a point by point statement on particular items bearing on the item should be given. It states: 
A reference to an annual report or similar publication relevant to the item; 
And the AMLC report would have been relevant to that $2m beef classification expenditure in that case; and also, importantly, part (vi) states: 
If all or part of the provision is associated with a project (which is also) funded from other sources, suitable crossreferencing and the total amount required for the project should be shown; 
Questions were asked about that at the Committee and, again, some information appears in the supplementary submission. I attended that Estimates Committee, but not as a member. I remind the chamber that senators can attend any Estimates committee, ask questions and participate in discussions but cannot vote on the subject of the final report. As it happened, I could not have attended because I did not know when the meeting to consider the report from this Committee would be held. I could not have voted but I think note should be made of the fact that in this respect that section of the Department of Primary Industry's estimates are unsatisfactory. That was stated at the hearings of the Estimates Committee, by one or two members of the Committee in particular, and also by myself. The attention of the Department of Primary Industry should be drawn to that report, which was tabled in the Senate. 
The report and other notes were circulated to all departments by the Department of Finance, with a request relating to the format of the Estimates. Some departments were in difficulties because of the late notice that they received. However, most managed to put out some supplementary notes which, in turn, caused certain difficulties on other committees because there had been a change but, in respect of the beef classification item of the Department of Primary Industry, that particular aspect was completely ignored. The information was given subsequently. 
It is not before time to point out that, with all the time that has been spent on format and on those particular items-such as that if funds are coming from another source, that information should be included with the estimate- in view of the fact that that requirement was quite ignored, although information had been requested on similar items from the same Department on previous occasions, it should be put on record that the department was dilatory and not providing the information in relation to these particular estimates. 
The other matter involves the curious form of funding involved. The AMLC, which was not then under consideration, is of course funded from a different source. There is currently before the Parliament legislation which impinges on that matter, but here we find an extra $2m being given by the Government to a statutory corporation to carry out this particular work and research. The Government has decided that that corporation will do that work and that it will request Parliament for the provision of $2m. We are given information that a tentative budget was drawn up. It was, in  Mr Mackey  's words, an artificial one. That may have been necessary in this case. The corporation has to ask, piece by piece, of the Minister for its slice of that $2m which is only there for its purpose anyway. The Minister grants it piece by piece and the money goes over. 
We are in the position of being asked to approve Estimates which include of sum of $2m to be spent by a statutory corporation which has put up an artificial budget, with the money, as the Corporation asks for it, to be approved by the Minister. It is a very strange piece of financing. It does not seem to fall clearly into either departmental financing or statutory corporation financing. 
I did mention in the course of questioning to the Minister the difficulty in getting at the true situation on beef classification and pointed out that with this one we were in a very strange position. I wondered whether he could clarify it. At the time he could not. I wonder whether he could do so now. Perhaps there is something else that he could raise on it. 
I make one final point on this matter. It is a matter that I point to with some concern. There was not the opportunity, for reasons that I have mentioned, to do so earlier. It concerns other evidence that came up from an officer of the Department of Primary Industry. I refer now to the Senate  Hansard  report of Estimates Committee D of 16 October 1978 and to questioning which appears at pages 512 and 513. As will be seen, I indicated that I wanted to ask a question in relation to beef industry incentive payments, which did not appear under departmental items but did appear under special appropriations. The  chairman  said that we would look at that under special appropriations. Later, I indicated that I wanted to ask questions on the Plague Locust Commission and the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation. Of course, the Plague Locust Commission comes under the Department of Primary Industry and the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation falls under special appropriations. I should quote from the record here, because a statement made by an officer at this stage caused me considerable concern. I said: 
There are two reports in which I am particularly interested. One relates to the Australian Plague Locust Commission and the other to the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation. One comes under the Department of Primary Industry and the other comes under a special appropriation. Should we look at the items for those two bodies for details on their reports? 

 Mr Cleary, who is listed as Assistant Secretary, Management and Services Branch of the Department of Primary Industry was answering questions at the time. He said: 
The printing of the report of the Australian Plague Locust Commission is met from the appropriation item for the Australian Plague Locust Commission which we will come to later on. There are no provisions in the Department's estimates for the printing of the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation's report. 
I am recorded as saying: 
That does not come - 
It should be 'That does come'- there is a misprint in  Hansard: 
. under the special appropriation. 
The  Hansard  record continues: 

 Mr Cleary No, it is the responsibility of the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation itself. 
It will be looked at under the special appropriation for the Corporation. 

 Mr Cleary No, the funds for the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation are specifically its own. There is no Commonwealth or government appropriation. 
There is no appropriation in the Appropriation Bill but there are parliamentary provisions whereby it gets its money. 

 Mr Cleary Yes, by appropriations of levy moneys collected. 
A few minutes ago I referred to a matter of another special appropriation. 
That was the beef industry incentives payments. 

 Mr Cleary said: 
It is not in the estimates for discussion tonight. 
There was some further discussion: 
No, but it is in the explanatory notes and your advice,  Mr Chairman,  was that I ask questions relating to that provision under the special appropriation. 
CHAIRMAN- I understand that there are no particular appropriations because the money is collected from the growers, in this case. 

 Mr Cleary In connection with the item raised earlier, there are appropriations dealing with the beef incentive payments scheme in relation to administrative expenses. Any information that a senator would want could be provided in the administrative items for travel or this item which deals with some equipment, or it may deal with under the incidental items. They would have all appropriations relating to the beef incentive payments scheme. 
They are very minor ones compared with the total cost. 

 Mr Cleary That is right, but we can give you information on the total cost in connection with those items. 
The information that I thought I was getting very plainly from  Mr Cleary  was that because something appeared in special appropriations I was not entitled to ask questions about it; if there were a component relating to the same subject somewhere else in appropriations, I could get at the item. But if it just did not happen that there was a component appearing somewhere in departmental estimates I could not get the information. I think it should be made very clear, in case departmental officers have that idea, that there are many decisions of the Senate on the subject of the rights of the Senate to call to account statutory corporations for their use of public funds. 
There were other committees that had special appropriations, which were examined. The reason I did not raise that special appropriation was simply that, having taken several hours to get to page 34 of the Estimates of the Department of Primary Industry, in the15 minutes after the luncheon adjournment the Committee managed to get through the next 160 pages. I did not expect it to come up so quickly. Therefore, I was not there to raise questions in relation to that special appropriation, but I reiterate that we do have that right. It has been spelled out in a number of resolutions of the Senate. Other special appropriations were examined without any sort of objection by other estimates committees. Those committees were not precluded from doing so just because they were not in appropriation Bills and I would not want, now that that is on the record, any officer of any department to think that Estimates committees are precluded from asking questions in relation to statutory corporations for the reason given by  Mr Cleary  on this occasion. 
-At this stage I thought I might explain a couple of points pending the possibility of the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  answering some other points in relation to the provision of the breakdown of information of funds available from other sources. The Minister indicated that such information was made available in supplementary information given to the Estimates committee. In the report of the Chairmen of the Estimates committees to the Senate which was adopted by the Senate emphasis was laid on that point. The report states: 
If all or pan of the provision is associated with a project (which is also) funded from other sources suitable crossreferencing and the total amount required for the project should be shown . . . 
The point I tried to make was that the information which appeared in the supplementary information should rightly have appeared without having to be requested and received later. That information should have appeared in the explanation for division 490, sub-division 3, item 14, National Carcass Classification Scheme. It would then have been of far more use to the Committee. 
Before lunch there was some debate on the report of the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation I indicated that I would try to get certain information at lunch time. I tried to do so, but the person whom I tried to contact was on an aeroplane. Therefore, I cannot now provide that information to the Committee of the Whole. I hope that I will have the information by the end of the day. I had some other questions to which the Minister may choose to address himself. Perhaps he will indicate whether he wants to do so. A very serious question was raised in relation to the consideration of special appropriations by an Estimates committee and also the peculiar funding system for beef classification involving departmental funds given on the basis of an estimate from the statutory corporation with special conditions relating to ministerial approval. The point was raised in the Committee that this was rather a strange situation. The Minister may like to comment on why or how it is done in that way. 
-I am gratified with  Senator Townley  for raising the subject this evening. It is one that I have pursued by way of questions in the Senate and in Estimates committees for some time. The campaign that  Senator Townley  has been pursuing on this subject is very timely indeed. The subject of telephone subscribers' accounts, the effect that STD telephone calls have on them and the response of Telecom Australia to complaints made in respect of them is, of course, a fairly long-running saga but I believe that we have to persist with it. Telecom is in a very special position in Australian society. It has a monopoly of telephone communications and it therefore has a great responsibility to try to meet what goes with that monopoly. I do not believe that Telecom is trying to do that on this issue. Questions have been raised in this House and there have been numerous newspaper articles on the aspect that  Senator Townley  raised and I do not believe that we have ever received an adequate response to them. 
I remind the Senate of some of the questions that I have raised here and the answers that I have received at Question Time in the Senate and in Estimates Committees going back over some time. I want to quote some of these questions and answers and give an indication to the 
Senate of the basis on which some of these questions have arisen and what I think is the very poor basis on which Telecom has answered the questions. Undoubtedly there were those who were relieved that I was not a member of the Estimates Committee which examined the Department of Post and Telecommunications this year because this is a subject that I have raised consistently. I choose this opportunity to try to bring together some of the information that has been sought over a period of  2Vi  years and to bring the Senate's attention to the words used by Telecom when attempting to explain its way out of how these ludicrous telephone bill situations can arise and why Telecom over the years has managed to achieve nothing in the way so subscriber satisfaction when a real injustice appears to have been done. In May 1976 an article headed 'PMG Men Accused of Swindle' appeared in the  Daily Mirror  and on 19 May 1976 I asked a question in the Senate about this matter. I quote that question because it gives the main points of the article. I asked: 
Has the Minister seen an article in yesterday's  Daily Mirror  headed 'PMG Men Accused of Swindle ' which contains allegations by a former Telecommunications Commission linesman that telephone subscribers are footing the bill for Australia-wide calls recorded on subscribers' meters but made by Commission technicians with tapping devices, achieved by the technician either by clipping a portable automatic dialling device onto overhead lines and then attaching markers to cables to remind him when a householder is away, thereby allowing others to misuse the line as well, or by attaching a dialling device to a subscriber's severed cable in a metal street terminal box? 

 Senator Townley referred to this possibility in the latter part of his speech. It is an allegation that certain Telecom technicians were using devices to improperly use subscribers' telephone lines and also attaching markers to lines to indicate to them and others when a line was likely to be available for improper use because the householder who was paying for that line was absent from home.  Senator Townley  gave examples of the type of person who is prone to that sort of thing. I will refer subsequently to a number of newspaper articles on the subject which invited complaints from telephone subscribers and which indicate that a very large number of people who have nobody in their home all day- in the case of a married couple both are out working all day and in the case of a single person there is just nobody at home all day with access to the telephone- are particularly prone to this type of overcharging. My question continued: 
Is it a fact that regulations require that an such use of a subscriber's telephone be reported to enable a credit to be made for that service? If so, is it possible for the Minister to inform the Senate what records are kept of such calls reported to and credited by the Commission? If records are kept, are details of the numbers of calls made available to any subscriber whose service has been used in this way? Is it true that a linesman who did not report that he had made a call on a subscriber's line could be dismissed? If so, what attempts are made to detect this dishonesty and how many Commission employees have been dismissed for this reason? 
The Minister who answered the question on 19 May was the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Obviously he could not give me a prompt or immediate reply to such a detailed question. Nevertheless, I thought that it was a little tardy that it took from 19 May to 26 August to receive an answer to my question, and it was 26 August before the following answer was received from the Minister for Post and Telecommunications: 
Telecom Australia advises that technical staff employed on telephone installation and maintenance work are required, in the normal course of their duties, to contact the local exchange from field locations using portable telephones linked to a subscriber's line. Such calls are made to special non-metering numbers and do not register on the meter associated with the subscriber's service concerned. On rare occasions calls may have to be made to normal metering numbers, e.g. an engineering store or depot, for information or material. Officers are required to keep a record of any such calls made and to forward these to the accounting area to arrange for the appropriate number of rebates on the service concerned. 
That was the answer in response to my question about what sort of record was kept and what arrangements were made for crediting calls made on subscribers' lines in the course of official duties by Telecom technicians. The answer continued: 
Details of meter registrations rebated are not shown on telephone bills but the number of rebates allowed on each service is contained in the individual accounting records for each service and may be ascertained by subscribers on enquiry. 
That is, of course, if subscribers know that they ought to be inquiring about the account relating to that period. The answer continued: 
The number of rebates allowed is deducted from the total meter registrations during the accounting period before computing the metered call charge to be billed. 
To my questions in relation to whether if reports are not made by linesmen they are accordingly dismissed, what attempts are made to detect dishonesty and how many people have been dismissed for this form of dishonesty, the answer I received stated: 
In appropriate circumstances, action could be taken under the provisions of section 58 of the Telecommunications Act 1975 to dismiss an officer found guilty of improperly using a subscriber's line in the manner described by the honourable senator. However, there is no evidence of any offences of this nature having been committed. 
I reiterate that the basis of my original question was a newspaper article which quoted a justice of the peace who had previously been a Telecommunications Commission linesman. One would have thought that his allegations were reasonably well founded and that, being a justice of the peace, he was somebody whom one could reasonably expect to give fair information on the subject. Having received that answer to my question more than three months after it was asked, I asked a further question in the Senate on 15 September 1976 in which I referred again to the newspaper article. My question stated in part: 
In view of the conflict between the information provided in the Minister's answer last week and the allegations made in the article by, I remind the Minister, a justice of the peace last May, I ask: What checks are or can be made on the improper use of private subscribers' telephone lines and how can these subscribers be protected against a betrayal of a position of trust by such people? Has any attempt been made by the Commission to investigate the claims in that article and/or interview the individual who made them? If not, why not? 
The question referred to the justice of the peace who made the original allegation. On 11 November 1976, two months after that question, I received this learned and well researched answer 
In my earlier reply I outlined the procedures laid down by Telecom Australia for its technical staff to follow when the need arises to contact the local exchange from field locations, the safeguards employed to protect subscribers and the legal situation if improper practices occur. 
Telecom Australia follows up closely any specific complaint made to it relating to telecommunications services. The statements in the newspaper article were of a general nature and by a former employee who had left the service some years ago. Therefore, it was not considered that any further useful information would have been available from direct contact with him. 
I want to present only one other piece of information which was related to an Estimates committee before I say a couple of words about that answer of 1 1 November. On 6 September 1977 at Estimates Committee C I asked a number of questions relating to what sorts of investigations are carried out on this issue and how many investigators are employed by the Department. An answer to my series of questions was contained in supplementary information provided by Telecom. It stated: 
There is currently a staff of 49 Investigation Officers in Telecom Australia. 
The answer then listed the numbers in each State. It continued: 
These Officers are concerned with investigating offences against the Telecommunications Act and Regulations, pursuing the prosecution of offenders (typically for acts of vandalism against Commission property), investigating circumstances surrounding Motor Vehicle Accidents involving Commission Staff, and liaising with the  Deputy  Crown Solicitor and Law Agencies. 
In that answer the only category which seemed to cover the area of complaint to which I referred was the investigating of offences against the Telecommunications Act and Regulations. Forty-nine investigating officers have produced not one prosecution. An allegation in relation to a very serious breach- a specific allegation in relation to particular uses of equipment by telecommunications technicians- produced the response that since it was not a specific allegation, presumably in relation to a specific individual on a specific date, Telecom did not consider, according to its answer on 11 November that any further useful information would have been available from direct contact with the informant who was, I reiterate, a justice of the peace and a former Telecommunications Commission linesman. An article appeared in the Press. Questions were asked in the Senate. Telecom did not even contact the newspaper to try to find out who the informant was and whether he could give specific allegations. It just hoped that if enough delay endured between asking questions and receiving answers the problem would go away. 
I put it as forcefully as I can to the Minister that there is a good case to believe that there is misuse of subscribers' telephones. There is certainly a case to believe that the Telecom metering equipment is not adequate to the demands placed on it. It is clear that other equipment is available which would obviate this sort of mistake in subscribers' accounts, but Telecom will not install it.  Senator Townley  referred to a certain percentage of complaints. On 6, 7 and 8 September 1977 the  Sun  newspaper printed a series of articles in relation to this matter. An article on 6 September stated that in Sydney alone close to 2,000 people query their accounts every month. That figure is tiny compared with the number of subscribers which is around 1,500,000, but it is enough to keep Telecom and the newspaper letter columns busy. That figure is 1.6 per cent of Telecom subscribers in Sydney alone. If one assumes that that percentage is constant throughout the areas where subscriber trunk dialling is available- that appears to be the main problem- many people are involved in this problem Australia-wide. These articles are worth referring to. They give example after example of the sort of situation  Senator Townley  raised in September 1977 which have never been answered by Telecom. 
Telecom has available to it, if it wishes to install it, the equipment which would overcome this sort of dispute. It will not do so on the basis of cost. That is despite the fantastic profits that Telecom is making from its monopoly position in telecommunications in Australia. The alternative a person is offered when he makes a serious complaint and the situation reaches the point where it is insoluble is 'pay up or else'. That is a fair quote of the sort of response a consumer gets. He pays up because there is no other recourse to him. No other firm oners any sort of telecommunications service. Telecom has a monopoly. A person pays up or else. As he pays up, no matter how unhappily, Telecom officers smilingly offer him an alternative. They offer him a meter he can attach to his telephone on which he pays rental. Having been overcharged, in his belief, possibly grossly overcharged, for his telephone calls, Telecom says that he can overcome this problem by renting a meter which it can attach to his telephone. As he staggers back in dismay and disbelief at the solution Telecom offers him and that he pays it more money because he has complained that he is paying them too much already, he finds out that if there is any dispute between bis meter and theirs it is bad luck for him. Telecom's meter wins again, regardless of the fact that he has been paying rental on its faulty equipment attached to his telephone which was supposed to overcome the problem of Telecom 's faulty equipment. 
This is a serious problem. It is faced by 1 .6 per cent of telephone subscribers, certainly in the STD area. That is a lot of Australians. One cannot strike an average for the amount of money involved. As  Senator Townley  pointed out, it could be anything from $9 for an account to $9,000. The average seems to be somewhere between $100 and $1,000. That seems to be the standard sort of complaint one receives. There is absolutely no right of appeal. There is no guarantee that the instruments being used are sound. There is no guarantee that the people who have access to one's instruments are honest. Telecom does not want to know about the problem. When honourable senators ask questions they receive weak answers. That is the very kindest thing one could say about them. I appreciate the lateness of the night and that the Minister probably wants the estimates to be passed. Perhaps he will take cognisance of the depth of feeling that is expressed by senators and press for a better deal for the Australian consumer of the services of Telecom. 
-A precedent was established when such a request was made and agreed to by the Committee yesterday so that certain things in relation to the estimates of the Auditor-General's office could be debated. At that stage we had actually finished considering the estimates of Committee A including those of the Auditor-General's office. Leave was given to consider items which long since had been passed. I think that the Committee has indicated that it is master of its own fate in such a case. 
-I take the opportunity of this debate on the livestock levy Bills to make a few comments on the beef industry. It is unfortunate that we are given little opportunity to debate this important industry in the Senate. It is particularly unfortunate that this debate has come on in the Senate in what, hopefully, is the last week that we will be sitting, when the legislation has been on the Notice Paper of the other place for some time. As a result both the number of speakers and the agreed length of time for speaking have been reduced. Therefore one does not have much opportunity tonight to comment on this very important legislation which concerns this very important industry. 
Nevertheless, I would like to take a few minutes to say a few words about some aspects of the industry that are affected by this legislation. I would like to note particularly the first two paragraphs of the second reading speech made in the House of Representatives by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  on the Live-stock Slaughter Levy Amendment Bill 1978. We all assume that that is exactly the same second reading speech that has been incorporated in the Senate  Hansard.  The first two paragraphs read as follows: 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Live-stock Slaughter Levy Act 1 964 to increase the maximum rates leviable on cattle, buffaloes, sheep, lambs and goats slaughtered for human consumption. Concurrently, I will be introducing a Bill for parallel amendments to the Live-stock Export Charge Act 1977. The Government has agreed to amend these two Acts at the request of the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation- AMLC. The maximum rates leviable per head under the Slaughter Levy Act will be doubled in the case of the meat research component, quadrupled in the case of the meat processing research component, and doubled in the case of the total levy possible for the above components plus the component for the administration of the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation. 
There was a substantial debate on this legislation in the House of Representatives and apparently it will not be recanvassed in the Senate. I certainly do not intend to do so. However, I would like to raise a few matters in relation to what is happening with this component which we are approving for the administration of the Austraiian Meat and Livestock Corporation. 
We in this place pass legislation which gives that statutory Corporation authority, subject to ministerial consent, to levy beef producers so that it can carry out certain functions. Once we have passed this legislation and agreed to a maximum levy, effectively involvement in this area passes out of our hands. We delegate to the AMLC, a statutory corporation, the right to raise certain levies subject, of course, to the proviso that the Minister has some rights in that area, too. However, when the levy is raised and the AMLC sets about gathering large sums of money from beef producers to carry out its functions, we are not involved. This is the only point at which we can become involved and can comment on those levies and what the AMLC does with them. That is the aspect that I want to concentrate on tonight. 
I remind the Senate, if it needs to be reminded, that last week when debating the Estimates the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  and I had an interchange of views in relation to a report from the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation. I remind the Senate that I had some complaint about the fact that this statutory corporation has not yet presented a report to the Parliament and that I had information that a copy of the preliminary report was made available to someone at the Sydney office of the AMLC. I complained on the ground that there was under law an obligation for this Corporation to report to Parliament via the Minister but that the Parliament had not received the report, although other people had access to it. I do not want to prolong that debate at tedious length, but I must make a statement in relation to the answer that was given by the Minister. I in any event have a general reason for raising it in this debate. 
If I may first comment on the statement by the Minister, he indicated that he would check whether my allegation was true. After checking during the suspension of the sitting, the Minister is reported at page 2 1 1 3 of Senate  Hansard  of 1 6 November 1978 as having said: 1 am advised that the interim annual report of the AMLC is not available for public scrutiny. Ten copies were produced in the Sydney office of the corporation. One has been given to the General Manager of the Corporation and the other nine to members of the Corporation. That has been verified by a telephone call today to the General Manager. 
The Minister went on to indicate that an interim report from the Corporation would be tabled this week in the Parliament I want to put on record, and further information is available if it reaches that stage, that a copy of the preliminary report was made available to a stranger who was allowed to sit in the office of the AMLC and copy certain information from this report which we have still not seen in this Parliament. The information that was copied from the preliminary report appears in a public document, a submission to the Prices Justification Tribunal in relation to the beef industry. It appears even with page references, so it is quite a specific reference to a very specific document which was made available to someone who simply went into the AMLC office in Sydney, asked for certain information and was handed the report. I do not want again to canvass the rights and wrongs of that because we did that at some length last week. I just place that on record in reply to the information that was given by the Minister last week. At that time, as I indicated, it was not possible for me to contact the person concerned because he was in an aircraft; I could not get it on the record at that time. 
My purpose in raising the whole issue of the report in an Estimates committee and becoming interested in it in the first place was that these Bills were then on the Notice Paper in the House of Representatives, where they had been for some time. It seemed to me that when levies exist and we are being asked to take action to double and quadruple certain of them, and some of the money is going to the administration of a statutory corporation, we really ought to have much more information than we had been given. We have been told that certain increases in relation to the Corporation has not been outlined to us. I know that the AMLC has its own internal budget and that it has made its case to the Minister and to the Government for the increase. I know that on the basis of that budget it has presented information to the Government that over the next three years it will need a substantial increase in income via its component of various levies to carry out its functions under the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation Act. 
However, that information, which relates to the future, has never been presented to this Parliament and we have not been given information regarding money that has been spent from levies that we in this Parliament have authorised in the past. I just do not think that is good enough. The AMLC is a new statutory corporation but it has a very significant responsibility in relation to a major Australian industry, which is certainly one of the most important in my State of Queensland. We should be given more information. We certainly should have been given more information in relation to the case that was made by the AMLC and referred to by  Senator Webster,  the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, in his second reading speech, in which he said that the Government has agreed to amend these two Acts at the request of the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation. 
The Minister does indicate later in his speech that the AMLC is presently discussing with industry its forward expenditure budgets and income requirements. That should now be in the past tense because the Bills came in some time ago and those discussions have taken place. They were not public discussions. Although maybe we should not have access to them, I believe that we in this Parliament should have access to the case that was made for the increases. Later in his speech the Minister said: 
Monies raised through the components designated for administration of the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation are used to finance all aspects of the operations of the Corporation. The Corporation is essentially responsible for the control and regulation of external marketing of Australian meat, meat products, edible offal and livestock. The Corporation also encourages and provides assistance for promotion of meat and meat products both in Australia and overseas. 
The subject of the marketing of meat, and specifically beef, has of course been in the newspapers in recent days. Various comments have been made about the need to promote vigorously our beef both overseas and in Australia- which is, of course, the beef industry's major market. There has been some criticism of what is known of the promotion that might be undertaken I do not intend to repeat here all that criticism but it is a pity that we cannot have available to us more information about just what these promotion programs are to be. 
I welcome the very positive comments of  Mr Jones  about the determination of the AMLC to embark on a vigorous marketing program but I would like to know more about its actual plans. In that context I certainly would like to know more about the AMLC's forecast budget, which has led to the increases in levies to which we are being asked to give approval. I would like to know, for example, whether it is true that the budget that was presented to the Government actually showed an intention to reduce the funds for promotion within Australia over the next 12 months, and a very small increase in overall costs of promotion, as compared with large increases in the overall costs of administration of the AMLC, both in its Australian offices and in the overseas offices that we fund from this country via beef producers' money. I would like to know whether that is true, and I think that there is a reasonable ground for believing that it is. There may be a good reason for it, but no explanation is given to us, either by the AMLC or the Minister. 
It is worth placing on record that a large number of producer organisations are concerned to ensure that in future beef is marketed better than it has been in the past. I am aware that over the last three years, when the beef industry has been in extremely difficult circumstances, members of Parliament have taken some note of this and that even members who do not have beef electorates have been aware that a dire position obtained, even if they did not know the details of the causes. I am aware that in recent times, since the upturn in the beef market caused mainly by domestic action in America- no thanks to anything that has happened in 
Australia- many members of Parliament, unfortunately, have thought that that was an end to the problem. My main reason for rising to speak tonight is to implore members not to think that the subject of beef marketing has been satisfactorily resolved. Although beef producers have received a reprieve as a result of domestic action taken by the United States  President  in the last few months, this does not mean that the problems of the beef industry in Australia have been overcome- not by any means. Structural problems are still there. Certainly it does not mean that the beef producer has lost interest in structural problems which have been shown up so sharply in Australia in the last few years mainly because of the downturn in the export situation. 
Strong statements on approaches to marketing have been made by a number of producer organisations. I refer to one article appearing in the Farmers Weekly of 5 October 1978. The article quotes the comments of the meat section  president  of the Farmers Union on the subject of levies and the marketing of beef and is typical of the attitude of many beef producers towards beef marketing. Under the heading 'Growers want more for money than 30-second commercials'  Mr John  Newman is quoted as saying: 
If livestock producers are to be asked for more than double their existing contribution to the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation they want to see more for their money than thirty-second commercials telling the world's greatest meat eaters to eat more beef. 
To say that the present marketing system is the most commercially viable is to in fact say that producers who have not and cannot prosper under the present system should get out of it. 
That the system currently operating is acceptable to traders in meat may well be true, that fatteners and livestock traders may be able to get by may also be a fact, but for the breeder, the beginner of the production line, it is - 
Expletive deleted- 
. disaster! 
With rising inescapable fixed overheads and widely fluctuating returns, the men who make the industry possible, unless blessed with alternative sources of income, are doomed to a sub-standard existence or a bankrupt business. 
That is simply stating the way many producers feel about the beef industry now. The problem has not gone away and beef producers and their organisations have shown a willingness to face this fact. They want support from the Government and they want action from the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation which will show that that Corporation is acting according to the charter that we gave it in the Act we passed last year. In regard to the matter of overseas trade  Mr Newman  said: 
Single desk buyers must be faced with a single desk seller and politically influenced buying arrrangements should be met with politically backed selling. 
I suggest that both the Government and the AMLC have adopted a slightly ostrich-like attitude in relation to the single buyer single seller situation. I am not an expert on marketing but it seems to me as a keen observer of the beef industry in recent years that the single seller single buyer situation in the beef industry cannot be avoided. The Government and the AMLC are going to have to face up to this and give rather better reasons for not acting along those lines than they have given so far. It may be that their option is right but I do not believe that they have explained it satisfactorily. It is clear from comments by producer organisations that producers are not persuaded by the negative attitude that has been taken.  Mr Newman  said further 

 Mr Jones of the Corporation must recognise that the $S,000m processing and marketing body is not worth a cracker if the breeding and production of base material is uneconomical. 
It is also a fact that insisting that solving the problem is too hard, or too painful for some vested interests, is not the response expected from people selected as the most experienced and pre-eminent in their fields working together in the body of the AMLC. 
With the ability to license, regulate and promote as well as trade, it is not sufficient to abdicate responsibility commercially and claim only an advisory role. 
That criticism of the present system has been made on a number of occasions, and it sums up well many of the persistent, basic criticisms that have been made of our approach, as a nation, to beef marketing. 
As I said, I raise this matter in the Senate to indicate to honourable senators and others that the problem of marketing has not been overcome just because there has been an increase in beef prices. It is quite possible that it is a temporary increase. I point out to the Senate that there were many indications in the newspapers just two or three months before the increase in the rate of exports to the United States resulting in a lifting in beef prices, which showed a different and extremely pessimistic attitude. I could refer to many articles but I will give just one example. It is an article from the  Australian  of 8 April 1978, only some seven months ago, headed: 'Beef Exports Crisis. Huge surplus threatens abattoir jobs'. The article states: 
The beef export market has taken a shock downturn, leaving Australia stuck with a mountain of surplus beef and a million cattle too many. 
Meatworks will lay off more employees soon because they cannot get beef past quota barriers in the United States, Japan and Canada or find payable markets elsewhere. 
The situation is so critical that meat exporters took the rare step on Friday of publicly explaining why they are cutting down on cattle purchases. 
There is available a mountain of Press clippings which show that just a few short months ago headlines such as 'Beef exports crisis' were the norm. That would seem to indicate that the recent- and possibly temporary- change in the United States market does not so quickly eliminate the problems of the beef industry. As long as producers are still facing those problems I think that we ought to recognise the significance of their willingness to continue to face them. Too often primary producers are accused of being interested in their problems only when there is a crisis and of sweeping them aside with the comment that they do not want to do anything about it when things are good. Things are better at the moment and producers are still showing that they want more action on this because they do not want to face the same sort of problem again. 
I turn now for a couple of minutes to the subject of classification which is a major responsibility of the AMLC at the moment. Again at the hearing of Estimates Committee D on 20 October 1978 a number of questions were asked in relation to classification. They appear at pages 850 and 853 of the  Hansard  report of the proceedings of that committee. I have not any intention of going through them tonight. I just want to make the comment that, having sat through all that evidence and asked a number of questions, I am dismayed at the sort of doubts that are being cast on classification. Beef producers see the introduction of a reliable classification scheme as basic to any orderly marketing scheme. They want an orderly marketing schemein order to obviate the fluctuations they have experienced in the last few years in order to get their industry on to a sound and planned basis and to operate in a reasonable way. As I have said, I find dismaying the doubts that have been expressed. 
Many wild stories are floating around at the moment about the costs involved and the time it will take to introduce. I found it a little distressing at that Estimates Committee hearing that more direct answers could not be given on the subject of classification. I accept fully the technical problems that have arisen in relation to a classification system, but trying to look past that difficulty and to get some idea of the notional timetable that the AMLC and the Government have in mind for classification proved to be virtually impossible. With the sort of money that is involved both in direct appropriations and in the levies I think we need better information than that provided so far. The Estimates Committee hearings are one of the few opportunities we have to get this information. With that sort of doubt cast on the whole subject of classification and therefore the possibility of a reasonable and orderly marketing system, I think we should face the fact that we are placing the producer in a difficult position in the matter of commenting on his own industry. 
I conclude on the subject of marketing. An orderly marketing system for beef is essential both for the producer and for the consumer. A number of producer groups are on record in relation to this matter. A front page article in the  Canberra Times  of Friday, 16 June 1978, quotes  Mr Baden  Cameron, the executive officer of the Australian National Cattlemen's Council, as expounding the need for marketing developments and reforms. The article states: 

 Mr Cameron said that because the industry would have to continue to rely on the vagaries of overseas markets, particularly the US market, it needed to obtain more reliable access to these markets. It had to increase the calibre of its markets- intelligence services and its market forecasting. 
He called for reforms in the marketing chain saying that carcass-classification facilities in all abattoirs would allow producers to sell on the farm. This would allow the farmer to set his own reserve price and the sale price could be determined either by auction or schedule. 
There are many documents from the AMLC on the subject of meat classification indicating the support of this major organisation for it. 
The Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation has also recently indicated its concern on the subject of marketing and costs of marketing. I conclude on some matters raised recently by the AWMPF ofl this subject. According to the Press, in a report to the Prices Justification Tribunal, the AWMPF: 
. points out that in the six years between 1972 and 1 978, the cost of cattle production in Australia rose from $ 1 ,02 1 m to $ 1 ,205 m-or 1 8 per cent. 
During the same time span marketing and processing costs escalated from $7 1 2m to $ 1 ,864m- or 1 62 per cent. 
In other words they rose from 4 1 per cent to 6 1 per cent of total industry costs, far swamping cattle production costs. 
It also pointed out that retail prices of beef had risen from 1 62 per cent of saleyard values in 1 97 1 -72 to 4 1 3 per cent in 1975-76. 
The AWMPF is quoted as making an attack on the existing open-cry saleyard auction system for cattle, claiming: 
Producers were forced to sell, once they had taken their cattle to market because of high transport costs incurred. 
Assessment of value was on a purely subjective basis. 
There was potential and implicit collusions between stock buyers. 
Stock were damaged in the process. 
The report goes on: 
The Federation laid stress on the value of objective assessment of carcases characteristics as an aim to price determination, but warned that carcase classification by itself was not the cureall for the industry's ills. 
I do not think that anyone would claim that. The report continues: 
The real economies of carcase classification will not occur until greater order is achieved in the marketing system. 
It is not open to me tonight and I do not wish to canvass all the issues of the beef industry. A number of additional issues are raised in that document from the AWMPF. However, honourable senators ought to note that the producer organisations are being responsible and consistent in their call for moves towards an orderly beef marketing situation. Despite the beef producers' position and exports to the United States having improved, producers have decided not to ignore the basic problems of their industry. They want to press ahead with reform, even though the income of producers has risen. We should note that. Therefore I hope the interim report which will come into the Parliament this week from the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation will give us some information which is worth while, about what it has done with the producer levy since it has been in existence, and perhaps give us some indication of what it intends to do for the benefit of the beef industry with its component of future increases in levies that we may be asked for on this occasion and on future occasions. 
-! seek leave to table additional information received by Estimates Committee A. 
Leave granted. 
I table the additional information and seek leave for it to be incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
I also seek leave to comment briefly on the information. 
Leave granted. 
In view of the comments and debate in the Senate this morning in relation to publications, I point out to those honourable senators who are interested that this additional information contains a letter dated 10 November 1978 from the Auditor-General, D. R. Steele Craik, in which he indicates that he will be taking action to provide in future annual reports certain information on reports from departments and statutory authorities in the hope that that information in his annual report, which normally is available before Estimates committees meet, will assist us in our attempts to get information on those other reports. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health, a question relating to components in first aid kits sold in Australia which may or may not be marked as Australian first aid kits. Is it a fact that the Department of Health is interested in standards  control only of therapeutic substances which are contained in these kits- for example, antiseptic creams or liquids- and that there is no control on other goods such as bandages and lint that are contained in the kits? 
Is it a fact that the vast majority, if not all, first aid kits sold in Australia are assembled in Australia but with imported components such as bandages, dressing strips, wool-, lint and gauze? Is it a fact that there is no quality control at all by the Department of these imported components and that no certification is made that the kits are sterile? Will the Minister ask the Minister for Health whether the Department could look at the possibility of a quality control of all components of first aid kits, in view of the fact that many of the components now being put in the kits come from countries with very different standards of public health and hygiene from Australia's? 
I take note of  Senator Georges  remarks. I hope that  Senator Georges  has looked at the supplementary report of the Auditor-General which was tabled yesterday, because it was very gratifying to note that the Auditor-General is now joining issue in this matter which has been raised in the Parliament. It is quite clear that he is putting his point of view to stop departments and statutory authorities claiming his Office as an excuse. It is clear that departments and statutory authorities are not keeping their accounts in a form which enables them easily and quickly to present their final accounts to the AuditorGeneral for approval. There is a hold up in the sense that they are just not in the right form for submission to him. I welcome his support of our attempt to make departments and statutory authorities more responsive. We reiterate that we have the option of the interim report which can avoid the delay which comes with the approval of financial accounts at any time. I just hope that departments and statutory authorities will make sure next year that we get at least those interim reports before the sittings of the Estimates committees so that we can have a proper scrutiny of what is happening in those areas of governmental and semi-governmental authorities. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Science and the Environment which follows the question asked of him a short while ago by  Senator McAuliffe.  When the Minister is considering his reply to  Senator McAuliffe  in relation to the Bellevue Hotel, will he also extend consideration to the building called 'The Mansions', which is next door to the Bellevue Hotel? It is one of the very few historic buildings in Brisbane and is in the same position as the Bellevue Hotel. Will the Minister give concurrent consideration to The Mansions with the Bellevue? 
-by leave-I had intended to speak on the subject in any event in a slightly different vein from  Senator McClelland  because I was a little critical of the report but I must say that since listening to  Senator McClelland  my heart feels a little lighter. I am particularly gratified to hear of the substantial sum of money that was spent by the Government for the Queensland railways and others, presumably for providing substantial employment by government expenditure. I think that  Senator McClelland  probably has laid out a quite impressive case for why the Silver Jubilee celebrations were quite beneficial to this country. The point I want to raise is on a different level altogether because I am quite familiar with the questioning that went on concerning this subject during Estimates committee hearings. I found some curious features in this report about which I would like to seek some explanation from the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney).  The report is labelled 'Final Report of the Silver Jubilee Commemorative Organisation'. The frontispiece which has a letterhead The Silver Jubilee Commemorative Organisation' is a letter to the Minister from Harry M. Miller,  Chairman,  in which he says: 
I have pleasure in submitting to you the final report of the Silver Jubilee Commemorative Organisation. 
This account of my stewardship as Chairman of the Organisation summarises the broad scale of activities undertaken in Australia to commemorate the 25th anniversary of Her Majesty's reign. 
Having got that far I was a little confused about whether we were getting the final report on the Silver Jubilee Commemorative Organisation which ought to give some indication of what public funds had been spent, or whether we were getting an account of Harry M. Miller's stewardship. As one reads on I think it becomes clearer that we are getting an account of his stewardship but not in the first person. I took the trouble to do something I do not normally do. I read through and looked for the trivial aspects of this report and I found that in the first five pages Harry M. Miller is mentioned nine times. Throughout the report he is in fact mentioned 19 times. The areas in which he is not mentioned are interesting in themselves. I would like to know from the Minister whether this is a report from  Mr Miller  on  Mr Miller  or whether this is a report from the  Chairman  of the Silver Jubilee Commemorative Organisation, as the frontispiece would seem to indicate, on the Silver Jubilee Commemorative Organisation. If it is a report on the Organisation I find it slightly obnoxious because it has actually been used for  Mr Harry  M. Miller. I draw the attention of the Senate to page 1 which states: 
This is a report on the organisation- 
This is interesting. The report continues: 
Establishment of the Organisation was announced by the Prime Minister in a Ministerial statement to the House of Representatives on 23 February 1977. He said the Government was pleased to have secured the agreement of  Mr Harry  M. Miller to serve in an honorary capacity as  Chairman  of the Organisation, and added:  'Mr Miller  is admirably suited to this task, being a leading theatrical producer and an outstanding personality in Australian business and cultural life.' 
The Prime Minister said  Mr Miller  would be assisted by a small team of skilled personnel. 

 Mr Miller is mentioned three times on the first page. That is the sort of thing that makes me curious about whether this is a report by  Mr Miller  on the Organisation or a report by  Mr Miller  on  Mr Miller.  I think that we probably need a report from the Organisation given the fact that government funds were involved. If it is a report from the organisation. I suggest that this is not the sort of report that ought to come to Parliament and that should be pointed out. It is certainly not the sort of report on which public funds should be spent for printing. 
It is quite interesting to glance through the report. One finds some rather curious quirks in the references to  Mr Miller.  For a few pages after page 1 he is referred to as  Mr Miller.  He is referred to in very favourable terms and undoubtedly he did a good job. At page 3 the report states: 
While the Royal party was in Australia  Mr Miller  held a number of discussions with the Queen's Private Secretary,  Sir Martin  Charteris, about the Organisation's plans.  Sir Martin  promised to help wherever possible and his subsequent assistance was of great benefit. 
As one reads on through the report one finds that it was very beneficial that  Mr Miller  established this sort of rapport with  Sir Martin  Charteris. But if one reads on a little further one finds something that sounds a little more in the interests of  Mr Miller  than the interests of the Silver Jubilee. At page 4 the report states: 

 Mr Miller led the Organisation's staff in the planning and arrangement of each of these projects, all of which required a great deal of conceptual and administrative work. 
Further down on page 4 the report refers to a subject of greater controversy which has been raised in the Senate on previous occasions. It states: 
As a number of its major projects involved the need for assistance by authorities in the United Kingdom the  Chairman, Mr Miller,  decided to make a brief visit to London. 
That visit has been the subject of some questioning in the Senate over a period of time with some questions being raised about expenditure and so on. I have not participated in that questioning but I doubt the wisdom of  Mr Miller  writing a report on himself in which he gives the sort of outline of his activities that he has done. It sounds a little bit like a justification in reply to questions that have been raised concerning the cost of that visit. At page 5 we are told: 
In a visit lasting nine days,  Mr Miller  held discussions with officials of the Royal Household and the British Government relating to the proposals for the Royal Silver Jubilee Exhibition train and the Royal Coaches Exhibition. In addition, he and his officers set up plans with Capital Radio, London, for the series of Jubilee radio broadcasts to Australia, had a number of meetings with senior officers of the Central Office of Information and representatives of the London Celebrations Committee for the Queen's Silver Jubilee, investigated numerous aspects of the British Jubilee program for possible adaptation in Australia, and represented the interests of the Australian National Queen's Silver Jubilee Appeal Committee at meetings convened by the United Kingdom Appeal Organisation. 
While in London  Mr Miller  also held a major news conference at Australia House during which he outlined the Organisation 's plans to representatives of the British and Australian media. 
That is good because that give some sort of indication of  Mr Miller's  stewardship. The context in which it is given is not so good. It would have been more helpful if, when following up all those points, this report was not quite so glowing in its praise of  Mr Miller's  individual and personal involvement in a way which one suspects has a considerable bearing on  Mr Miller's  business future in this country and his prospects of success in other areas. The report then goes on for a number of pages. First of all it deals with Operation Jubilee Bonfire and this takes up a number of pages. There is no mention of  Mr Miller  so perhaps he was not involved in that. At page 8 under the heading 'Radio Broadcasts' we find reiterated:   . . during his visit to London  Mr Harry  M. Miller- 
He has become  Mr Harry  M. Miller now- 
. held talks with the management of Capital Radio . . . 
The next section deals with the Silver Jubilee train and this is introduced by the glowing statement: 
By Tar the largest project conceived and undertaken by the Silver Jubilee Organisation was the Royal Silver Jubilee Exhibition train. Nothing like it had ever been attempted before. 
The Exhibition train was the idea of the Organisation's  Chairman, Mr Harry  M. Miller, who saw it as an opportunity literally to take the Silver Jubilee to the people. 
Further on the report states: 
The Exhibition project began to take firm shape during a visit to London early in May by  Mr Miller. 
On his return to Australia,  Mr Miller  began a round of discussions with railways authorities . . . 
The content of the report comes across to me as just a little strange. Frankly, as a report from an organisation to Parliament it sounds altogether too much like an advertisement for  Mr Miller.  Once or twice he is referred to as the  Chairman, Mr Harry  M. Miller, but generally he is referred to a  Mr Miller  or  Mr Harry  M. Miller or sometimes just Harry M. Miller when he could quite easily be referred to as the  Chairman.  I find that when one reads the report the impression that is given is not of a straight report to Parliament but of a public relations exercise. I have no objection to any of the projects that were mounted for the Silver Jubilee. I think that probably our Silver Jubilee celebrations were quite encouraging, indeed very successful, and I think Australians generally supported them. I am a loyalist, not a republican. I declare my interests there. But if this is the sort of report that it appears from its front cover to be, I do not find it satisfactory. 
I just draw one further particular point which is part of this subject to the attention of the Minister. Again  Mr Miller  does not receive a mention under 'Operation Jubilee Salute', the 'Silver Jubilee National Essay Contest', 'Community Events' or 'Sporting Activities'. But under the heading 'The Silver Jubilee Appeal for Young Australians' we find these words: 
Several events in the Jubilee Organisation's program were conceived and arranged specifically to assist the Appeal. Among them the most important were the Royal Variety Performance at the Sydney Opera House and the Countdown Silver Jubilee Australian Top 20 Album, an LP record containing music by Australia's leading pop groups and singers. 
At the end of the report you are not very surprised when you find that the two most important events under this heading were produced by Harry M. Miller. The Royal Variety Performance, we are told, was 'produced by  Mr Harry  M. Miller and directed by Peter Batey'. I smile at that point because there appears to be some doubt as to whether Peter Batey is a mister or not whereas there is no doubt at all about  Mr Harry  M. Miller. The other event, the Countdown Silver Jubilee Australian Top 20 Album, is said to be 'an enterprise supported and assisted by a large section of the Australian entertainment industry and conceived by the Jubilee Organisation', etcetera. 
The document further states: 
The idea was developed by  Mr Harry  M. Miller and Ian Meldrum, the talent co-ordinator for the Australian Broadcasting Commission's national TV program 'Countdown'. 
What I have been saying might all have sounded a little trite, a little trivial, but frankly, when I received the report I was a little worried about the sort of report that was being introduced into the Senate. If it is the report that it appears to be, a report from the  Chairman  on his stewardship, I suggest that he might have used the first person I' instead of modestly using  'Mr Miller'  or Harry M. Miller'. If it is in fact a report from the Silver Jubilee Commemorative Organisation then I think it really gives altogether too much notoriety to one individual when it is quite clear that many people, including officers of the Department and of the Government, made a major contribution. Their contribution is not detailed in this report. 
It is my pleasure to join in the debate this evening and to note that a number of Queensland senators have made a contribution to the debate, which is hardly surprising as the Great Barrier Reef is, of course, off the coast of Queensland. That may sound a terribly trite statement but I would like to make the point that whilst Queenslanders feel a particular pride in the Great Barrier Reef I think we should all acknowledge that it is part of a national asset which has some particular relevance to Queensland and the things that the Queensland Government do in relation to it have a very particular relevance but I think that should always be in context of the fact that that reef is an Australian asset and part of the Australian heritage. 
We are, of course, speaking to a motion by  Senator Chipp  to send a reference to the Standing Committee on Science and the Environment for investigation. It has already been indicated this evening by the  Chairman  of that Committee,  (Senator Jessop)  that it is not thought appropriate for that reference to go to the Committee. In that context I would only like to make a couple of brief statements. I shall be brief because other members of the Committee have commented on it. I support the proposition that it should not go to the Committee in general outline. I would also like to take the opportunity to make my position clear in relation to certain matters affecting the Great Barrier Reef. 
The subject of the reef is, of course, a matter of considerable political interest in Queensland and has been for a long time, but it is particularly so at the moment with talk about marine parks and  the possibility of oil drilling. It is not a recent phenomenon that this great interest exists in Queensland or elsewhere in Australia but I believe that the depth of public interest in Queensland is probably the strongest in Australia because it is an issue which is constantly mentioned to me as I travel round the State. It is not an issue which is mentioned to me with any regularity at all when I travel through other States of the Commonwealth of Australia. 
A few years ago there was, of course, a royal commission into the subject of oil drilling on the reef. It was commissioned within Queensland. The report is a very formidable report, a very long report, and a very difficult one I am told, by those who tried to read the whole report which, I shall admit, I have not done because of the technicalities and the size. However, I am aware of the general conclusions of the report and I hope I can summarise them- again, I hope not too crudely- by saying that I think, essentially what the results of that royal commission would convey to us is that firstly, as far as we know, there are not good prospects of finding oil on the reef. Secondly, it is virtually impossible under present circumstances to tell what are the prospects of successful oil drilling and furthermore, what the results of oil drilling will be. I, along with many others, welcomed the statement made by the Premier of Queensland  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  yesterday that there is no question of the reef itself being drilled. There are, of course, other issues including the matter of drilling within the vicinity of the reef, even if that be in terms of 100 or 200 kilometres. In general terms I am persuaded as a result of that royal commission, firstly, that there is no compelling reason to drill for oil on the basis of the information that we currently have of the prospects of finding oil in that area. To use the recent events in Iran as a basis for urging further oil exploration on the reef, is an emotive argument and is not one which appears to be well founded in fact. 
In the second instance, I do not feel that it is good enough to say that there is always some risk in oil drilling and that finally we cannot be sure what those risks are. We could avail ourselves of a great deal more information if the experts undertook more research on the subject of the potential dangers of drilling anywhere in the vicinity of the reef- I have already indicated that in my opinion the vicinity could be a matter of hundreds of kilometres- and that research must be undertaken. I appreciate  Senator Chipp  's sentiments on the subject when he said that perhaps we are just dodging the issue. He has claimed that we could achieve something in that direction by having a Senate committee consider the problem. I do not believe that that is appropriate. I do not think that Senate committees are used properly in areas which clearly require a great deal more research and investigation of a very specialised nature. I think such committees are better used when the information is available and can be brought together by a committee. 
My question, which is directed to the Attorney-General, relates to the closing in October last year of the child minding service associated with the Family Court in Brisbane. As I understand it the service has been closed until further notice. Would the AttorneyGeneral agree that when family law legislation was debated in this chamber, heavy stress was laid on the need to remove the strains which had been associated with divorce jurisdiction in the past, with particular reference to the rights of children? Would the Attorney-General agree that this child minding service is a very valuable one, particularly when custody and access matters are being heard in view of the desirability of avoiding conflict between parents in the presence of children when custody of children is in dispute? Has he had reports of unfortunate incidents in the precincts of the Family Court in Brisbane since this child minding service has been closed down, particularly when children have come into contact with parents from whom they have been separated for some time? Is it true that staff are using the former child minding centre for recreation purposes? Was the closing of the child minding service approved by the AttorneyGeneral, or was it approved by an officer of the Department, and if so, on what grounds? Will the Attorney-General give an assurance that this child minding centre will be opened in the near future and will not be closed again under the same sort of circumstances? 
by leaveLast week, I had the opportunity to travel to Tasmania to pay personally my respects to Eric Bessell 's widow and family. I rise in the Senate to say a few words briefly about Eric Bessell. I was one of those along with Eric Bessell who were elected in 1974 for the first time to this place. We came here as new senators and we learnt a lot together. I think that I had a particular association with Eric in that for the last several months of his time here in 1975 I was  Deputy  Whip for my Party. As  Deputy  Whip, of course, one comes to know one's colleagues and their problems a little more closely and a little better. I never knew Eric Bessell as an organisation man because that was not my level of involvement in the days before we were both in the Senate. But in the Senate I have to say that, apart from being a good friend, he was a good senator and a good man. He was honest and he was genuine in the view that he put. He was not a man who was over temperamental or self seeking in the way that he behaved as a senator. I say that from my experience as  Deputy  Whip. 
He, of course, spoke frequently on issues related to primary industry. He spoke with great knowledge and with a genuine feeling for those whom he represented. In our days in Opposition he carried a particular burden in certain areas. He was a willing and helpful worker. I say to his wife, Rita, and to his six children of whom he was so proud and with such good reason that I, amongst many others- certainly those of the class of '74- extend our most sincere condolences. I think we feel a particular grief in the passing of the first member of that group. We feel a very personal grief at the passing of Eric Bessell- a young man, at 55, with a comparatively young family of six children, of each of whom he was enormously proud, and deserved to be. I extend my sincere sympathy to his wife and to his family. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Minister noted publicity in recent weeks regarding the rising price of beef, which I am sure is welcomed by all beef producers and fair-minded Australians? Has the Minister also noted comments by some consumer groups on whether or not those increases in retail prices of beef are justified? Has he noted the comments today by  Mr Day,  a Minister with the New South Wales State Government, relating to a beef stabilisation scheme? Would the Minister agree that the Federal Government's policy for a classification scheme is preliminary to any beef stabilisation scheme? Is the Government considering any beef stabilisation schemes at the Federal level? 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral whether he recalls my asking him approximately a month ago a question in relation to the provision of child minding facilities at the Family Court in Brisbane. Does he recall my asking him on what grounds those child minding facilities were closed and asking questions relating to the detailing of hardship that this might have imposed? Does he also recall my asking him whether the area which had been previously used for child minding was now being used for staff recreation purposes? Does he recall indicating that he would quickly seek an answer to give to me? When can I expect an answer to that question? 
Has the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs seen an article in today's  Australian  which attributes to the Opposition spokesman on economic affairs an allegation that Government priorities are such that there has been a cut of 64 per cent in Government funds to the National Aboriginal Conference? Will the Minister tell the Senate whether this is a genuine reflection of the Government's priorities on this issue. What is the truth of the matter? 
I bring up the report of Estimates Committee A on the particulars of proposed additional expenditure for the year 1978-79, together with the  Hansard  record of the Committee 's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-by leave- I table additional information received by Estimates Committee A and seek leave for it to be incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee 's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
I ask the Minister for Science and the Environment a question about drilling on the Great Barrier Reef. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the fact that when the Minister for Mines, Energy and Police in Queensland refers to the Reef he means the outer reef, that is that part of the Barrier Reef complex which lies approximately 100 miles off the coast of Queensland- and apparently he means that exclusively? Since most Australians would consider the Barrier Reef to mean the entire reef complex and not just the outer reef and this ambiguity has led to some confusion on the part of members of the public in the debate on this subject, could the Minister clarify that when he and the Prime Minister and the Commonwealth Government refer to the subject of drilling on the reef they mean the entire reef complex and not just the outer reef? 
I ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs a question which refers to a newsletter circulated by Gununamanda Inc. Pty Ltd. Has the Minister been informed, as alleged in this newsletter, that last Friday two Federal Government Department of Aboriginal Affairs officers flew into Mornington Island and held a quickly convened secret meeting of the company directors of Gununamanda Inc. Pty Ltd and the Mornington Shire Council? Is the Minister aware that  Mrs Annie  Chong, who is a company director and shire councillor, has accused the Federal officers of attempting 'a take-over of the company on Mornington Island in much the same manner as they have taken over other Aboriginal enterprises in the Mount Isa area; for example, legal aid, Injilingi Pre-school, Dajarra General Store' and so on. I ask what comment the Minister can make on the transcript included in the newsletter of a conversation between  Mrs Chong  and a  Mr Roger  Pettit, the company's business manager and adviser, in which, in response to  Mrs Chong  's letter to  Mr Pettit  asking why might some agents of the Federal Department want to take over the Company?',  Mr Pettit  replied: 
Gununamanda is a comparatively successful company and probably the largest private employer of Aboriginal people in Queensland. Maybe some DAA agents feel that it should be administered directly by their department . . . 
-It is my pleasure to rise to speak in support of the Government on the urgency motion which is before the Senate today. Before turning to the substance of my speech, I must say that I was relieved to hear  Senator Mason  say at the end of his speech that what he had said was highly relevant to the motion. I look forward to reading his speech in  Hansard  tomorrow as he read the part which he was quoting at such a speed that I could not understand what he was saying. I, with other Government senators on this side of the chamber, just could not hear what he was saying, so I cannot make any comment on its relevance at this stage. 

 Senator Chipp interjected towards the beginning of  Senator Mason's  speech when  Senator  Mason made some comment about morals and aesthetics and some mirth was displayed on this side of the chamber.  Senator Chipp  indicated that we found morals and aesthetics in some way amusing. I assure  Senator Chipp  that Government senators take the moral and aesthetic aspects of this matter very seriously indeed. What we found amusing, frankly, was the rather pompous, schoolmasterish way in which the remarks were delivered to us. It does not advance the case of the Australian Democrats at all for its members to patronise us in that way. 
I cannot make any further comment on the content of  Senator Mason's  speech because, as I said, it was virtually inaudible on this side of the chamber because of the pace at which it was read. But I do want to make some comments on what  Senator Colston  said. For  Senator Colston's  sake I will repeat slowly some of the statements made by the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Carrick,  because apparently  Senator Colston  did not understand them when  Senator Carrick  made them. For  Senator Colston's  sake I will repeat some of the things which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  have said and that  Senator Carrick  has said on his own behalf. I shall refer just briefly to the total scope of the urgency motion and then mention the parts which  Senator Colston  needs yet to understand. 
We have before us an urgency motion on the subject of the Great Barrier Reef.  Mr President,  I understand that this is the fourth debate we have had on that subject in the Senate in the last three weeks of sitting. One would have thought that by now the message would have got through fairly clearly. When first I read the urgency motion it appeared that that was so and that the Opposition had at least read and heard what the Government has been saying for a long time. The first part of the motion refers to the fact that the Prime Minister has given a complete and unequivocal guarantee that the Government would not allow drilling that would do any damage to the reef. The House of Representatives  Hansard  for 2 1 February 1 979 shows that the Prime Minister said: 
But let me give a complete and unequivocal guarantee that this Government would not allow any drilling or any mining that would do anything to damage the reef. If there were to be any doubt about that, activity would not take place. 
For  Senator Colston's  benefit I repeat yet again what the Prime Minister said on 22 May. He said: 
Accordingly, the Government has taken steps towards the consideration of what information is required concerning the reef environment and what research ought to be undertaken. The Australian Marine Sciences and Technologies Advisory Committee- AMSTAC- has been asked to submit advice on a program of research on the reef environment for consideration in the Budget context. 
Surely that is what we all, including the Democrats, want. The Prime Minister continued: 
I hope all honourable gentlemen will be able to look upon the accomplishment of that research under the proposals of AMSTAC as something which will advance the cause of the preservation of the reef in all circumstances. 
I shall read the next part very slowly for  Senator Colston  's benefit. The Prime Minister then said: 
Let me say in the most clear and categoric terms that we would not allow anything to occur that would in any way or could in any way damage the reef. If there is a doubt about whether an activity would damage the reef, that activity would not take place. 
The second part of the Opposition's motion refers to the Queensland Government's attitude and 1 will come back to that. For a moment I want to go in the context of those sorts of quotations to remind  Senator Colston  and other Opposition senators of some of the things the Attorney-General has said on aspects raised by the third part of the urgency motion. In the same debate from which I have just quoted- the debate that took place in the Senate last week- the Attorney-General said: 
The Federal Government has full power of control in relation to this area. The Federal Government has the ultimate constitutional power here to ensure that the policies are carried out and to ensure the exercise of its responsibilities. That clear undertaking on policy was given by the Prime Minister as recently as Tuesday, 22 May. 
Further on in the same speech  Senator Durack  said: 
We are discussing with the States issues about the territorial seas around Australia. 
I understand  Senator Georges  's anxiety to learn. He needs to. 1 ask him to let me have my turn for the next 10 minutes. I will inform him of the position.  Senator Durack  went on to say: 
As I said in a similar debate recently - 
There has been a great deal of reiteration on this-   . . the discussions with the States are on the basis of the exercise by this Parliament- not anybody else- of its constitutional power. We are not talking about giving away the ultimate constitutional power of this Parliament. Let that be clear. 
One would have thought that the position could not have been put clearer. One had some wild fancy at first when  Senator Wriedt  commenced his speech that at last members of the Opposition had got that into their heads. But they went off on some tangents as, indeed, the motion does. 
Our objection is this: We do not mind the Opposition in its urgency motion finally giving us credit for what we have been saying for months in quite clear and unequivocal terms. What we do mind is that the Opposition thinks it can preempt discussions with the States, that it can preempt this Government's relationships with various State governments on the subject of territorial seas and tell us in the Senate today exactly what we are to do in the future. I remind the Senate and the people of Australia how disastrous the Labor Party was in government, in respect of its relations with the States when it tried to implement its policies. The Labor Party wants us yet again to pick up one of its failed policies. It is a pity that honourable senators opposite do not look at some of those failed policies and consider once again that it was a Labor government which issued the leases for mining on the reef. Whilst we do not accept dictation from the Australian Labor Party on what our policy should be, there is nothing in our stated policies to which it can take exception. One is not sure whether it is a case of the Opposition refusing to listen on occasions or whether it is a case of the truth hurting. 
I said that I would quote some of the words  Senator Carrick  used in the Senate today. I think it is important that I do so in view of the fact that  Senator Colston  chose to try to indicate that  Senator Carrick  had somehow obscured the matter. In fact he did not. He gave the quotations that I have just given. I wrote down some of the words he used and I wish to quote some of them verbatim. In case there is any doubt about the accuracy of the quote, I point out that I am quoting from my own handwritten record of what he said.  Senator Carrick  said that the Government will ensure by every means available that there is a preservation, a maintenance, of the Barrier Reef ecosystem'. There is not any catch in it at all. It is quite unequivocal. That is what  Senator Carrick  said. I understood what he said.  Senator Colston  did not understand. I hope that what I have just said will allay all of  Senator Colston's  worst fears. I just do not think that the position could be any plainer. 

 Senator Carrick also pointed out, as I would like to point out, that it is not in Queensland's interest to damage the reef. A substantial section of Queensland's economy is bound up with the maintenance and preservation of the Great Barrier Reef. The reef is an enormous resource for Queensland 's economy. It is a substantial source of tourist income. I do not take exception to what  Senator Wriedt  said about the damage that tourists can do. I agree that we must take certain steps to ensure that tourism itself does not damage our natural assets. But the fact is that for a long time a major part of the tourist industry in Queensland has been based on the reef. The reef is also a major fishing resource and fishing makes up a very substantial part of the rural income in Queensland. Queenslanders do not want the reef damaged. The Queensland Government has indicated that it acknowledges the enormous importance of the reef to Queensland. There is no dispute about the fact that people do not want the reef damaged. 
I speak not in a jingoistic sense as a Queenslander. I acknowledge as a Queenslander not only that we have a great national resource lying off our State's shores but also that we have a great world resource for which we have an international responsibility. I believe it ought to be established that it is not in Australia's interest and it is certainly not in the Queensland Government's interest to pursue policies which would do damage to the Barrier Reef. The Labor Party chooses when it runs out of words and excuses for the weak case it attempts to put forward on this subject to sweep aside the fact that its attitudes in the past have been different and to concentrate its policies on some anti-mining type propaganda which I will not even dignify with a response this afternoon. I think that the issues relating to the Barrier Reef are clear. The Government's stand is abundantly clear and we have reiterated it in unequivocal terms. I think the 
Senate ought to seek its fourth resolution on this subject in three weeks. I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
by leave- I table additional information received by Senate Estimates Committee A and seek leave to have the information incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee 's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
-I seek leave to table further additional information received by Senate Estimates Committee A. 
Leave granted. 
I table the additional information and seek leave for it to be incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
-Far be it from me to damn  Senator Primmer's  speech with faint praise, but it seems to me we just heard the right speech on the wrong subject. Tonight we are engaging in what one hopes is a reasonably short debate on a statement by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  basically on funding guidelines for education in the next year. We have had a couple of interesting contributions. I cannot make much comment on the last speech because it was largely irrelevant to the subject under consideration. 
I would like to make a brief comment on  Senator Chipp  's speech and compliment him in return for what I think was a useful contribution to the education debate in the Senate. In the last few years we have had an interesting and a useful debate, in parliamentary terms, on the subject of education in this chamber and we welcome another thoughtful contribution, particularly on this vexed subject of the level of funding and the role of the Commonwealth Government in the funding of education. 
I naturally welcome the fact that  Senator Chipp  gave due credit to the Government in two very important areas of this statement, namely, increased funding in the technical and further education area and the action the Government is taking on the Galbally report. We have had debates in this chamber in the past on the subject of migrant education and multicultural education. I think all of us who are interested in education have been well aware that these are areas of significant need. That perhaps sums up the main thrust of this statement; that is, while there is a stabilising in demand in certain areas of education, nevertheless the Government has firmed its commitment to areas which are clearly areas of need. 
-! will come back to stabilisation, senator. I wish to refer to the areas of migrant education, multicultural education, nongovernment schools where we have known for a long time that the average standards are well below those in the State area, and disadvantaged schools. These are all areas where those of us who support an active Commonwealth Government role in education, particularly in the school area of education, would welcome funding. An interjection was made a moment ago on the subject of stability. I think we have to be careful in using this term that we do not confuse stability with rigidity. There are certain areas of debate in education where the word 'stability' is used in a favourable sort of way; at other times the same word is used to mean something quite different. The fact is that our school population has basically stabilised. The stabilisation of population in the tertiary areas has been an enforced thing. The demand for education in the tertiary area has certainly grown and it has been necessary for governments-  (Quorum formed).  I welcome the fact that the education debate has heightened  Senator Keeffe  's sensitivity to the subject of numeracy but I lament the fact that it has not broadened his tolerance at all. I was making some comments on stability in education populations and the increased demand in some areas. 1 was trying to draw a contrast between stability and rigidity, which I think is particularly relevant in view of some of the comments that  Senator Chipp  made in respect of the tertiary area. Certainly, there has been an expanding demand for tertiary education. All of us who are interested in education, and have been for many years, would welcome that increased demand and interest in the tertiary area. Nevertheless, I have no truck with those who have prospered from the tertiary area and who now, in their empire building, attempt to preserve what was good in the past because it is now good for them although it may not be realistic in the future. 

 Senator Chipp made some reference to the fact that tertiary education institutions, notably universities and colleges, have not significantly expanded their staffs since 1 975. That is something that we would all acknowledge. We have now reached the stage in the education debate where expansion for its own sake is no longer considered desirable. We have had debates as to what constituted the sacred cow of education and I think that in the last couple of years at least the education debate has focused more realistically on what ought to remain and what ought to change. Unfortunately, the tertiary sectors are notoriously unreliable in examining their own area.  Senator Chipp  refers to new demands and no one would quibble with that. However, we would ask that tertiary institutions respond to new demands and examine old ones at the same time. Getting rid of out-dated courses is much more difficult than bringing in new courses.  Senator Chipp  made some reference to that. Tertiary institutions ought to be urged to examine these carefully. It is one thing to say that they ought to examine them carefully. It is another altogether to get them to do it. There has been enormous reluctance to act on the part of those who run universities, who are of course the people who have a vested interest in maintaining the status quo in their own area, if not expanding their horizons. 
There is a weakness in the debate in that sense in that internal priorities are set by those who benefit from the priorities. People do not argue with that because there is a question of academic freedom and that ought to be preserved. But those tertiary institutions must understand that while they keep voicing demands for increased funding they must at the same time provide some justification for what they are doing with the funds that they have. We all know of cases in tertiary institutions, I think notably universities, where courses which previously attracted a very large number of students now attract very few. Nevertheless, the department certainly will not voluntarily reduce the level of its staff. Staff is kept at the same level until there is some natural decline through transfers, people getting new jobs or resigning from old age. That is not good enough. 
There are certain departments of languages, for example, a subject to which  Senator Primmer  referred, in some of our tertiary institutions where previously there was a very heavy demand as a result, for example, of a language other than English being made compulsory for an arts degree, a demand which has declined recently. Whereas they were top departments in terms of enrolments, and therefore staff, some 15 or 20 years ago, they are now very minor departments in terms of enrolment, but the decline in staff has not kept pace. I cannot understand really how people who train in the tertiary area consider that that entitles them as of right to some basic sort of guarantee of a job. For example,  Senator Chipp  referred to arts graduates. Back when I was a student, which was quite a few years ago, an arts degree was not thought to be a golden meal ticket. 

 - Senator Sim is too kind. There is no secret on that score. I have never believed, when I was a student or since, that because I undertook a course I was entitled to a job at high remuneration. I do not believe that those who take courses now, even in the post-graduate area, have a right to demand employment. If we were to accept that sort of argument we could have a perpetuating, ridiculous system whereby people could be trained in all sorts of occupations, and because they were then turned out into the 'job market' with qualifications that were quite irrelevant to demand governments would be supposed to be under some sort of obligation to employ them. That is an area that we have seen particularly strongly debated in recent years in the case of teachers. Students entered institutions, trained as teachers, graduated and the jobs just were not available. That has not been a function of increased class size. On the contrary, the demand for teachers in those terms has expanded, but the actual opportunity for employment has declined. 
Perhaps we ought to say that we should be even more restrictive in our intake for tertiary institutions than we are at present. That is a restriction which everybody seems to lament when they get around to talking about university quotas. Perhaps the institutions ought to be more restrictive, but that is a debate that they must enter in those terms. To say 'Keep everything that we have as it is on the same basis, without any external justification', and then point to the new areas that  Senator Chipp  was highlighting tonight and say: 'Because they are new areas we must have more funds than previously' is not good enough. 
I was not saying that you did,  Senator. I  was just indicating that you had pointed out some of" those courses in respect of which there may well be a justification. I accept that there could well be a justification. I say that the institutions have to justify the continuation of the courses that they have at present and cannot just argue the aspect of new demand that they sometimes present. 
Earlier the subject of research was raised and I would like just to touch on it. We certainly support the fact that universities, in particular, have a very strong research function in this country and that we need much from them. Again, I would not always be persuaded that the research that is undertaken in those institutions is undertaken with the sort of high-minded idealism that is exhibited when they argue for more research funds. Those of us who know about some of the internal workings of universities are well aware that in some areas of research the consideration is an eye to the main chance, the area from which funds may be most easily extracted, usually from private bodies. What that means in terms of research students, technical assistance and so on is part of the empire building structure. I am not saying that that is 50 per cent true, or generally true, of the research area in universities. I am just saying again that universities must enter more meaningfully into that debate and examine their own areas. In a time when there is pressure in regard to funding throughout our society- funding for all sorts of things- those who receive such massive funds ought to be quite sure that they can defend publicly the case that they put. 
I am not particularly impressed by a case that comes from the Federation of Australian University Staff Associations on this subject. It is aware of my opinion on this. I went to a seminar that the Federation held in Sydney early this year where much play was made of the effect on research programs of government policies and funding. In fact, on closer examination of the point of view that FAUSA put, it came down to saying in bald terms that it considered itself to be a trade union and therefore not required to justify advanced cases of a more academic or objective nature when challenged to do so. When it takes that line it opts out of the education debate as far as I am concerned. I would not suggest that all members or sections of FAUSA adhere to that point of view but that is what its spokesmen say, and if it is to take that line as a justification in matters such as its concentration on study leave, and claim to be a trade union-type of organisation, it cannot claim to be arbiter on the subject of a general academic view. If it casts itself in terms of advocate of a special interest it cannot claim to be arbiter on a subject of more general purpose and import than the question of working conditions. 
As I said earlier, I do not understand why graduates think that they have a golden meal ticket when they graduate if others think that they are unemployable. I do not understand why academics think that once having been employed by a university that is their golden meal ticket for the rest of their lives. It does not apply in other sections of our community. Certainly, it does not apply to members of Parliament. Therefore, I do not see how, under the hallowed mantle of education, they can claim that unto themselves. 
I think that all of us who are interested in education welcome the fact that in a time of considerable economic stringency, in a time when this country must examine very carefully its competing national priorities and demands, when it has had to move away from the cargo cult mentality of funding, the universities and colleges have come out of the whole funding situation since 1975 very well indeed. In view of the debates on education that we have had in the Senate on many occasions, I know that Opposition senators would join with me quite heartily in welcoming the fact that there is to be a significant increase in expenditure in the technical and further education sector. 
The subject of the funding of government versus non-government schools has been debated already this evening and I am sure that it will be debated many times in the future. I believe that the case put by the Minister is a strong one. Certainly, the States must look to their own resources but the figures are clear and simple on the subject of capital funding there and the role of Commonwealth funding versus State funding and relative responsibilities. As I said at the beginning of my speech, we must all welcome the increased expenditure on migrant and multicultural education. We must also welcome the fact that the Government has been able to hold its line on disadvantaged schools, special education, disadvantaged country areas and children in institutions. 
Resource targets have been the subject of much debate and questions many times in the Senate. I think the Australian public is well aware of the fact that since 1975 this Government has faced its responsibilities on the question of education funding. It has been faced with some difficult choices on occasions but the very high priority that we give to education must be absolutely beyond dispute and must remain beyond dispute in view of the Minister's remarks this evening. The time of the Senate is pressing and we have many other subjects to debate this evening. I am sure that many of us would like to say much more on this subject. We will have the opportunity to do so at some time in the future. 
On that note I conclude for this evening my remarks on this statement. I seek leave to continue my remarks later.  (Quorum formed). 
Leave granted. 
Motion (by  Senator Carrick)  proposed: 
That the resumption of the debate be made an Order of the Day for the next day of sitting. 
by leave- I table further additional information which has been received by Estimates Committee A and I seek leave for it to be incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee 's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
I ask the Minister for Science and the Environment a question about the proposal to transfer to Tasmania from the Australian Capital Territory the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation Division of Forest Research. In reaching a decision on this matter, could account be taken of the fact that this Division has the best research library on forestry in Australia- a library which has been made available to students, undergraduate and postgraduate, of forestry at the Australian National University, which has the biggest Department of Forestry in Australia- and that the transfer would deprive these students and the staff in that area of access to that library, thereby hindering forestry research at the ANU? 
-I regret having to detain the Senate tonight but I find it necessary in view of a speech which was made in this place earlier today concerning the tabling of the special flight manifests.  Senator McLaren  made a speech in which some assertions were made which would appear to indicate that I had improperly been a passenger on a VIP aircraft in the company of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in Queensland during June of this year. I was quite unaware that  Senator McLaren  was to make this allegation so I was not present in the Senate to give my response at that time. I therefore have to take the next possible opportunity, which is the adjournment debate, to set the record straight about something on which  Senator McLaren  was absolutely in error. As I understand it,  Senator McLaren  informed the Senate that only members of the House of Representatives are entitled to travel by VIP aircraft within their electorates and in the company of Ministers. He said that senators are not allowed to travel on the special flights within their own States under any circumstances. He went on to say that Parliament has never been told of any change in the guidelines about passage and use of these aircraft. 

 Senator McLaren was completely in error. He has taken a long-standing interest in the VIP special flight manifests and speaks with the apparent imprimatur of an expert on the subject in this chamber. I want to place on record the fact that he is quite wrong in his assertions about those special flights. After learning of his allegations I took the trouble to obtain a copy of the rules concerning the use of VIP aircraft. I received from the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  a document entitled 'Rules for the Use of RAAF VIP Aircraft for VIP and VIP Party Travel'. The first rule is that members of the British Royal Family - 
It is the current one; I have the personal assurance of the Minister for Defence on that. The first rule is that members of the British Royal Family, the Governor-General and the Prime Minister are their own approving authority and are responsible for approving persons travelling as members of their party. Therefore on a trip which the Prime Minister undertakes he is entitled as his own approving authority to take whomsoever he pleases on the aircraft. On the occasion in question he did include me and  Senator MacGibbon,  who was also named by  Senator McLaren.  He included a large number of members of the Press, officials and other people, as he is entitled to do. 

 Senator McLaren's hostility, I understand, stems from the fact that some questions were asked when Labor was in government about the inclusion of apparently unauthorised people on VIP flights with Ministers. I point out to the Senate that this set of rules clearly indicates that the position relating to Ministers and who may travel with them on these aircraft is quite specific. It is subject to approval by the Minister for Defence and in certain cases the Minister for Defence can seek a waiver of those conditions- in cases of urgency when there are air strikes or for really desperate personal reasons- from the Prime Minister. But the Prime Minister himself does not have to seek approval of the Minister. The Prime Minister, along with the British Royal Family and the Governor-General, as the rules say, are their own approving authority. I accepted an invitation from the Prime Minister to accompany him on a very important tour to parts of my electorate in central Queensland so that he could see the very important industrial and mining development that was taking place. I was, of course, delighted to accept and I did so in the knowledge that there was nothing at all improper about the offering of that invitation and my acceptance of it. I refer to rule 7 which states: 
In each instance the travel in VIP aircraft by a member of a VIP party is subject to the approval of the approving authority concerned. 
In this case it is the Prime Minister. Rule 12 provides: 
Any requests for VIP aircraft travel by VIP and party are to be referred to the Minister for Air - 
I will come back to that- who (apart from travel by the Governor-General or the Prime Minister) will consider the request in accordance with these rules, and if satisfied, approve the request. 
It is quite clear that the Prime Minister's entitlement is very specific.  Senator McLaren  had heavy overtones in his allegations that maybe the rules had been changed and we had not been informed. I point out for the information of the Senate that these rules refer to authorisation by the Governor-General, the Prime Minister or the Minister for Air and later on refer to such departments and the Department of Civil Aviation. There has not been a Minister for Air in this country for some years. We all know that the Labor Government did away with that ministry and amalgamated a number of ministries into the Ministry of Defence. So clearly that document is at least seven years old. They are the current rules; nothing has been changed. There was nothing underhand. In fact,  Senator McLaren  was grossly in error in claiming that he knew the rules and that either there had been some breach of the rules or the Government was applying them in a different way. The guidelines have not been altered, although there is some speculation that they might be altered in the future. 
I travelled on that aircraft- as I said, I was delighted to do so- with the Prime Minister so that he could see, in my company, those areas of Queensland which are showing development, which is so terribly exciting to the future of my State and, indeed, to the future of this nation. I have absolutely nothing to apologise for in being on that aircraft. I was proud to be there and I quite freely admit that in this chamber. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Defence: Is it true that Navy oil storage tanks at Windsor, Brisbane, have been sold and are to be dismantled? If so, on what basis was this decision made? What effect will it have on our ability to meet a defence crisis? 
I rise to speak on the urgency motion in which the Opposition has alleged the failure of the Government to adopt an even-handed approach to the Kampuchean problem and to respond with sufficient promptness and generosity to the urgent need for aid. In opening, I have to say that I do not in any way deny the obvious sincerity of the remarks made by  Senator Mcintosh  in this debate. He clearly cares about the fact that millions of people have died in Kampuchea and he clearly cares about the fact that millions more will die of starvation. Nevertheless, it is a pity that he did not, as a vehicle for his sincerity, base his remarks more closely on facts. 
The Government is accused of not providing aid to Kampuchea. The honourable senator alleged that it has known about the situation for some time and could have done something about it. He then went on to talk about the phenomenal speed with which the Government has managed to supply 1,000 tonnes of rice to certain areas of Kampuchea. I wish to put some facts on the record. Kampuchea was closed until six weeks ago, so no government could have provided any aid to that country in any independent sort of way. However, when faced with the opportunity to provide food aid to Kampuchea, in response to an approach from the World Food Program, the Government acted immediately and approved the immediate provision of 3,500 tonnes of rice for distribution in Kampuchea. There is no doubt at all that, given the opportunity to give aid, Australia has made it available. We have made the largest contribution of all the countries which have offered aid to Kampuchea, and we made it more quickly than any other government. During the course of his speech  Senator Mcintosh  laboured very heavily on the point that he thought the Government had not moved quickly enough and, therefore, he cast doubt on the sincerity of the Australian Government's intentions in relation to aid. He was challenged during his speech to name another government which had acted more quickly.  His  response was that he just could not do it offhand but that that did not in any way detract from his point. 
That is the impression  Senator Mcintosh  gave when  Senator Knight  challenged him to name a country which had moved more quickly. He said that just because he could not answer here on his feet in the Senate, that question did not take away from what he was saying. In fact, it does because the whole point he was trying to make was that in some way Australia had been tardy or dilatory. I have to inform  Senator Mcintosh  that Australia was the first country to act in that area, so any point he wanted to make about the Australian Government being dilatory or tardy just is not made. That is reinforced by the fact that Australia is the largest contributor of all countries which have offered aid to date. On three grounds one cannot really accept what  Senator Mcintosh  was essentially trying to say. Firstly, Kampuchea was closed until six weeks ago; secondly, given the opportunity to contribute and to try to do something about the starvation and misery in Kampuchea, the Australian Government was the quickest to act; and thirdly, the Australian Government has been the most generous of those countries which have acted. 
The speech made by  Senator Mcintosh  was all about aid- honourable senators did not hear anything about that from  Senator Wriedt-  and it was somehow implied that we should be getting aid into Kampuchea more quickly and in a more satisfactory way than we are at the moment. In opening the case for the Government,  Senator Sim  made the point that the only way this sort of aid can be distributed properly is through international agencies. At the moment there are only three personnel from international agencies available to help with the aid situation in Phnom Penh. The problem lies within Kampuchea; the obstruction is within Kampuchea. Given even that, only about one plane load of rice a week has been able to get into Phnom Penh. The difficulty is not one of intention- the aid is available- but one of what we can do with the aid that we want to give to Kampuchea. There is not the international personnel available in Phnom Penh to handle any more than is going there at the moment. 
The fault for that situation lies with the Heng Samrin regime, not with the Australian Government or the international community. It lies with the regime which currently occupies Kampuchea. At most, we can get in only one plane load of food. The facilities are not there to handle more. So acting as we have in terms of aid is not our fault. The Government has tried to get food as quickly as possible to as many people as possible. I have to make the point that recognition of the Heng Samrin regime would not in any way facilitate supplies from Australia to that country. 
I will come to that if I have time. At the moment I am trying to reply to points made by  Senator Mcintosh. 
Could I please have a turn? 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Jessop)-  Order! I would appreciate it if honourable senators would observe the decorum of the chamber. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, I do find it rather difficult to debate under those circumstances and I thank you for your intervention. Recognition of the Heng Samrin regime will not facilitate supplies in any way. The question of recognition is one to which I will refer if I have time. As I have said, at the moment I am trying to reply to the points just made by  Senator Mcintosh.  I am sure that if my time expires and I am not able to deal with all the points that I wish to on recognition,  Senator Knight  will adequately cover them when his turn comes. As I understand it, approximately 200,000 people are living in close proximity to the Thai border. Given that we can get aid to them, and the Government has not abandoned other attempts to get aid and food into Kampuchea through the international agencies in Phnom Penh, we have a responsibility to get that food to those people to whom we have access or to whom those distributing aid have access. We have a responsibility to make sure that they at least have the benefit of some of the aid that is available. 
It was quite incredible that  Senator Mcintosh,  whilst being so bitterly critical of the Australian Government and claiming that it did not care about those millions of starving human beings to whom he referred, could in effect only give honourable senators as his contribution in the debate some sort of summary of questions and answers in Parliament. I think the parliamentary and international records show that once the Australian Government had an opportunity to extend aid to Kampuchea, it acted with determination and great sincerity.  His  critique of answers to questions, in line with his allegations which were incorrect in so far as they extended to aid, therefore did not contribute to this debate at all. lt was also interesting to listen to  Senator Wriedt  's speech. I take it the main point he was trying to make was that the Australian Government should not recognise either regime. The situation is that Australia does recognise the Pol Pot regime, and most recently the Government's views on this were expressed in the United Nations. Yesterday, in reply to questions in this place relating to that,  Senator Carrick,  referred to the Australian vote on the matter of recognition. As recorded in  Hansard,  he said:   . . the Australian attitude that the task of the Credentials Committee is one which is strictly legal and technical. It is a task which, according to rules 27 and 28 of the General Assembly's Rules of Procedure, is discharged by deciding whether credentials submitted by the delegation of a member state arc in proper form. In this case, Australia voted to support the report of the Credentials Committee because the credentials of the delegation of democratic Kampuchea, which is a member state of the United Nations, had been found by the Committee to be in proper form. 

 Senator Wriedt, in his dissertation on the subject of recognition, which is the first half of the urgency motion, said that he did not intend to attack the Pol Pot regime. He nevertheless mounted a fair sort of attack on the Pol Pot regime, with not one word of which, I would think, any Government senator on this side would disagree. The regimes which Kampuchea and the unfortunate Kampuchean people have been submitted to in recent years are disgraceful. Much criticism can be made of the Pol Pot regime. Much criticism also can be made of the Heng Samrin regime. Our basis for recognition does not rest on any notion of just sheer revulsion at what the Pol Pot regime did, but on other standards for international recognition. To withdraw recognition from the Pol Pot regime would not advance us one wit. In fact, as I understand it, most of those who are managing to be supplied with aid by our best efforts are effectively living under the forces of the previous regime. It just shows that there is still an effective force in the Pol Pot regime. I do not think that anyone doubts that, if Vietnam were to withdraw its troops- its army of occupation, as some people call it- from Kampuchea, the Heng Samrin regime could maintain itself. There is no doubt at all that it would collapse. It is only propped up by that Vietnamese army. 
The argument is not advanced by pointing out that the Pol Pot regime was a repulsive one.  Senator Wriedt  went on to say, when talking about the invasion of Kampuchea by Vietnam and advancing various reasons why Vietnam would have invaded Kampuchea, that the invasion was not justified and that that should be put into perspective. I suggest to the Senate that in putting it into perspective he tacitly gave some sort of justification of that invasion. We had quite a long dissertation on the miseries that the Kampuchean people had gone through. He concluded by proposing that our reason for not recognising the Heng Samrin regime was that we were determined not to take any steps seen to favour Vietnam. I do not think that it is worthy of  Senator Wriedt  to suggest that we were acting out of spite or some sort of historical vindictiveness towards Vietnam. We did and do recognise the Pol Pot regime. It was not one which we would have politically supported in its coming to power. We did and we do recognise the current Vietnamese Government, and we do not have to like it either. We do not bear any spite in our attitude towards that. That is not the basis of our attitude in recognising the Pol Pot regime versus the Heng Samrin regime. 
We have in front of us a very curious urgency motion. I do not see that the two subjects sit together in any event. On the one hand, there is the failure of our Government to adopt an evenhanded approach. Apparently the idea of evenhandedness in this case is to recognise nobody at all. That would be on a par with recognising both of them. I believe that we have to make a decision. We live in the Asian region. We care very much about our relations with our' Asian neighbours. The decision which we make is not one which is made lightly. 
It is worth reiterating in that context that no Association of South East Asian Nations country recognises the Heng Samrin regime. Earlier in this discussion,  Senator Sim  listed those countries which do recognise that regime. Essentially they are Union of Soviet Socialist Republics supported countries or satellite countries. It is interesting that, out of what is essentially a list of Communist countries which have a stronger inclination to allegiances with the Soviet Union, Rumania and Yugoslavia have not recognised the Heng Samrin regime. The ASEAN countries continue to recognise the Pol Pot regime. We do not hang on their coat tails in that sense any more than we would hang on the coat tails of the United States of America in recognising neither regime. We have our own basis. That is the acceptance of the international basis for recognition of any regime. 
It is interesting to remember what the figures were on recognition in the United Nations. Seventy one countries voted as we did to accept the credentials of the Pol Pot regime in the United Nations versus 35 countries who voted against. We have soundly based international reasons for recognising the Pol Pot regime, which is the first part of the urgency motion. The second part of the urgency motion, I suggest, is totally false and fatuous. It is unworthy of debate in this chamber. The facts show that Australia, given the scant opportunities that any country in the world has to help that unfortunate country, Kampuchea, at the moment, has acted with speed and with generosity. 
I bring up the report of Estimates Committee A on the particulars of proposed expenditure for the year 1979-80 and departmental expenditure under the Advance to the Minister for Finance 1978-79, together with the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave-Mr  President,  I have taken the somewhat unusual step of making a statement on the tabling of an Estimates committee report because of the particular importance to the Parliament of a matter raised in the report of Estimates Committee A. I refer to the Parliament's appropriation and staffing. This matter has long been of concern to honourable senators on both sides of the chamber. It has long been of concern to the Presiding Officers, both past and present, and it has long been of concern to Senate Estimates Committee A. Some honourable senators will recall that a separate appropriation for the Parliament was raised in 1965 by a committee of Government senators chaired by the then  Senator Cormack.  Honourable senators will recall the then  Senator Murphy's  view that the Parliament is not an ordinary annual service of the government. He stated: 
It may be ordinary: it may be annual; it may even be regarded as a service; but it is not a service of the government. 
The matter was next raised by the Senate House Committee in 1972. Chaired by  Sir Magnus  Cormack as  President,  the membership of that Committee was Senators Guilfoyle, Jessop, Laucke, Milliner, Murphy and O 'Byrne. They reported to the Senate a resolution which honourable senators will now find quoted, in part, in the report of Estimates Committee A just tabled. The matter was again raised in 1974 by Senate Estimates Committee A. It was again raised by Estimates Committee A in May 1978, again in November 1978 and, finally, again in the latest report. 

 Mr President, the Committee is very much aware of your efforts and those of the  Speaker  to achieve greater control over the expenditure and staffing of the Parliament, and it is now time for the Senate to throw its weight behind you to put an end to the impasse that has existed for at least the last 14 years. Honourable senators will be aware of the widespread feeling throughout this Parliament, and the country, that the performance of Parliament, in ensuring that governments are fully accountable for their actions, has deteriorated. There have been many calls for reform. Yet the most significant and effective reform in the history of the Parliament- the establishment of the Senate's legislative and general purpose standing committees and Estimates committees- is becoming endangered. Specialisation has increased enormously in recent years, particularly with the advances made in science and technology. More and more, governments rely on advice from experts and, for its part, the Parliament needs financial and staffing flexibility and capacity to inform itself. Whilst the floor of Parliament will always remain the final accounting place, committees are the sinews of effective accountability. No one concerned with the role of Parliament would suggest that it should be provided with unlimited resources. Just as there are restraints on the spending and staffing of governments, so too should there be restraints on the spending and staffing of the Parliament. But for Parliament to properly fulfil and maintain its function, it must now make such arrangements as are necessary to achieve its proper constitutional relationship with the Executive, in practice as well as in theory. I commend to honourable senators for further information the reports I have mentioned in my statement and trust that the Senate will shortly find the time to give this matter the urgent attention it deserves. 
-by leave- I rise just for a couple of minutes to make some comments in relation to the statement. The order of Business Paper is extremely uninformative. If one looks at the paper, one will find that  Senator Rae  was to present a report from the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations on a matter. If it had not been for the fact that  Senator Rae,  as  Chairman  of that Committee, had paid me the courtesy as  Chairman  of Estimates Committee A of informing me last night that that report was to be presented, I would not have known. I do not know the contents of the report. I was interested to hear the comments made just now by  Senator Rae  on the contents. I wish to raise a point in relation to this kind of reference, this kind of report, and the position in which it puts the Senate which I think the Senate should address itself to. The reference to this Committee came from Estimates Committee A. There have been a number of referrals to this matter by that Committee. In its most recent report, the Committee referred to it again and said that it awaited with some interest the conclusions and the report of the Committee on Finance and Government Operations. 
It is reasonably unusual for a major reference to go from one Senate Committee, in this case an Estimates Committee, to another Senate Committee, in this case a Standing Committee- the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations. For various reasons the report cannot be made available any time in advance of the  Chairman  actually tabling it and making his statement. There are some historical reasons for that. I suggest for a couple of reasons that perhaps the Senate might address itself to making that sort of report available on some limited basis. At present when Ministers table departmental reports or make ministerial statements they pay the Opposition the courtesy of providing it with copies of those reports and those statements. 
Well, they are expected to pay that courtesy,  Senator Grimes,  so that the main Opposition spokesman can have a chance to look at the report and then comment. In the case of a report which involves another Senate committee, that courtesy cannot be paid under the present circumstances. As I said, I found  Senator Rae's  statement very interesting. It is quite possible that Estimates Committee A or a couple of members of it may have been interested in making some comment on the points that have been raised now. As it is, the report will go on the Notice Paper. We will have to wait at least some weeks until it comes up for debate. In the meantime we will read the report with interest so that we can participate when it is debated, because it is a very important matter. I rose to make the point that it will be several weeks before anyone can comment on it. In effect, people who have a very keen interest- for example the parallel of Opposition front bench senators- in a particular subject cannot comment because it is covered by a Senate report. I have had the view put to me that if a report is instituted by the Senate the Senate should know about it before anyone else gets a peep at it. I think that that situation is not really very different from the situation in the case of departmental reports. Many departments and statutory corporations are required to report to the Parliament. In theory the same situation should apply because those reports are required by the Parliament under legislation. I think that the principle is the same. It is unfortunate that because a report is a Senate report those who had a very keen and active interest in initiating the investigation cannot make any comment in this chamber until the report comes up on the Notice Paper, which may take several weeks. I suggest that the Senate address itself to this type of problem to see whether some other reasonable arrangement, but which nevertheless protects the Senate, could be reached. 
-by leave-I table additional information received by Estimates Committee A and seek leave for it to be incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is the Government aware of reports which indicate that Vietnamese Government authorities recently started requisitioning small boats, presumably for a new forced expulsion of the Chinese ethnic minority in Vietnam, and which are reinforced by other reports that numbers of Chinese within Vietnam have disappeared, presumably to some sort of staging point for their expulsion from the country? Of course, this is in flagrant breach of the undertaking given at the recent Geneva conference that Vietnam would halt the organised export of Chinese nationals from that country. Will the Government convey to the Vietnamese Government Australia's repugnance of its racist policies and forced expulsion of nationals and indicate that we expect Vietnam to continue to observe some standards of human decency in its treatment of its ethnic Chinese minority? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, relates to Vietnamese citizens seeking to migrate to Australia. I ask the Minister: Has any progress been made in reaching agreement with Vietnamese authorities to allow Australian immigration officers to conduct necessary interviews with these people within Vietnam? Will the Minister advise what steps have been taken to reach such agreement which would allow Vietnamese applicants to undergo normal migrant processing procedures? 
I ask a question of the Minister for Science and the Environment. It refers to reports that the Queensland State Government is suggesting that observers should be placed on Japanese fishing boats in order to monitor marlin catches in waters off north Queensland. Apparently this is being done in response to a submission from the Queensland Amateur Fishing Council. Is the Minister aware of this submission and the fact that the Queensland Minister for Maritime Services has suggested that the observers could be supplied by the Australian Institute of Marine Science, the Royal Australian Navy or the Army at Japanese expense? In view of the fact that the marlin and long-liners vacate the seas off Cairns from late December to July, meaning that effectively there is only eight weeks in which facts on marlin can be collected before the renegotiation period of the recently signed Australia- Japan agreement, will the Government give urgent consideration to the suggestion so that next year's decision on the renegotiation can be based on sound data? 
by leave- I table additional information received by Senate Estimates Committee A and seek leave to have it incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 23 October 1979: 
1 ) How many applications were lodged in each State and Territory of Australia with the Taxation Appeals Board for each financial year from 1975-76 to 1977-78. 
How many of these appeals in each State and Territory were: (a) upheld; (b) rejected; and (c) settled before being considered by the Board. 
by leave- On behalf of  Senator Ryan  and on my own behalf I would like to make an explanation about a news report which I gather was carried on radio and in the Press in Australia last week relating to statements which we made in Phnom Penh. As honourable senators are aware,  Senator Ryan  and I travelled to Phnom Penh last week and were involved in a number of functions there. There were news reports that at those functions we had given undertakings that Australia would give additional aid to war victims in Kampuchea. The reports were inaccurate only in that they were incomplete. The references to additional aid were in relation to the United Nations pledging conference of the previous week. We referred to the fact that the Australian Government had announced at that conference that it had decided to double the amount of aid that it was going to give to war victims in Kampuchea. That announcement, I might say, was welcomed by the officials within Kampuchea. We were certainly not taking it on ourselves while we were there to make grandiose promises off the tops of our heads on behalf of the Government. 
by leave- I table further additional information received by Senate Estimates Committee A and seek leave for it to be incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
I would like to speak on a couple of items that arise in Group A relating to Parliament and to the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. I would like particularly to refer to some items that were raised in the report of Estimates Committee A. The first matter I shall deal with briefly because it has been commented on very recently in the Senate. That is a matter which arises under the vote for Parliament. I would like to draw the Senate's attention once more to the opinion expressed by Estimates Committee A on the subject of parliamentary appropriations and staffing. I do not want to add a great deal to what has been said, except to say that on a number of occasions Estimates Committee A and other committees of the Parliament have reported their views on the matter of the staffing of Parliament. On each occasion they have put the view that the staffing of Parliament is not something which should be subject to Executive Government. I think that the resolution of the House Committee in May 1972, which is quoted in the report, puts the view very well. I shall quote it again: It states:   the proper course is that the appropriation by Parliament for such staff and other faculties for the Senate, its members and office bearers, should be administered by the  President  acting, where necessary, with the advice of the Senate House Committee and subject to any direction of the Senate; and that insofar as it may be convenient for such staff and facilities to be provided by Departments or Branches of the Executive Government, such agencies should act purely as service agencies on the authority of and in accordance with arrangements made with the  President. 
This expression of sentiment by the Senate is becoming almost a pious resolution. The difficulties which the Parliament and the working of the Parliament is encountering at the moment are becoming more and more marked. At present we have a situation where we ought to have a certain agreed staffing of the Parliament, but because of Public Service Board staff ceilings, the Parliament is not allowed to employ people in those positions in which there is no dispute that there is a need. I think that all of us are aware in one capacity or another in our work as senators that it is alleged that the operations of certain committees are affected in terms of their staffing and that the operations of certain departments of the Parliament are affected. This matter was raised in an Estimates committee in the House of Representatives recently and a suggestion was put that parliamentary appropriation should be a oneline appropriation, so that the Parliament can decide how the money is to be spent. Of course, the  President  of the Senate and the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives are the critical people in that issue. 
I would just like to say once again that I think this Senate should endorse that sentiment which has been expressed many times, as I have said, by Estimates Committee A and by other committees of the Parliament and is now being expressed more and more by individual honourable senators. I hope that those outside the Parliament who take an interest in this item would not suggest that members of Parliament are trying in any way to escape proper scrutiny of how money is spent on Parliament and to what effect but would understand very clearly that it is basic to our system of parliamentary government that the way the Parliament administers itself is no business of Executive Government. In fact, there is an inherent clash of interest on occasions between those two issues. To be controlled, as we are at the moment by Executive Government in an arbitrary fashion on the question specifically of staffing, is very seriously to threaten the future functioning of Parliament. I do not suggest that the present situation is in any way sinister, but I do suggest that it has a potential always for denigrating the role of Parliament and indeed may be seriously spoiling its role. 
Much is heard these days about public concern for the operations of Parliament. Much is heard about how the public thinks that the Parliament could do a much better and more active job in representing the people and in carrying out the functions of democratic government. If the Parliament does not have such basic things as its essential staffing then it cannot. I would hope that the public would respond to the sentiments of that issue which has been raised and which I touch on just very briefly. Another item arose while matters were being considered by Estimates Committee A in the estimates of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. The first issue is one that has arisen many times in the past in different ways and from different angles, and that is the matter of the Special Air Force Fleet, usually referred to as the VIP fleet. I would like again to draw the Senate's attention to comments that were made in the report from Estimates Committee A and the historic situation in regard to VIP flights. 
This year the Estimates Committee had available to it an outline of expenditure made under the Advance to the Minister for Finance. In checking through that certain figures occurred in relation to costs for VIP flights. In looking through the actual expenditure for 1978-79, the proposed expenditure for 1979-80 and proposed and actual expenditure for a series of previous years the Committee found that there is a very consistent pattern relating to estimates of expenditure for VIP flights. Put very simply it is this: Each year Estimates committees and the Senate are asked to approve an estimate provided to it of expected expenditure on VIP flights for the following year. Each year that estimate is wrong. Each year it is lower than the actual expenditure for the previous year. So we now have a history of expenditure in successive years: In one year we have a certain expenditure on VIP flights; in the following year an estimate made which is significantly lower than the expenditure for the previous year, but an actual expenditure by the end of the year which is significantly higher than the expenditure for the previous year. The pattern is clear that there is always an under estimate of the cost of VIP flights. There is always an expenditure much higher than the previous year. 
One could draw a very simple conclusion, one would think, that one could expect the cost of VIP flights in any year to be at least as high as the actual expenditure for the previous year. In fact, in all the years the Estimates Committee went back through one could expect it to be higher. One would expect it to be at least as high as the actual expenditure for the previous year. A number of questions were asked in the Estimates Committee and some bases of estimating expenditure were given. I cannot accept that we really got a full explanation. Some information was given as to the basis of estimating expenditure on VIP flights. Non-recurring events such as royal visits, elections and referenda were referred to. The expenditure for these events is taken out when estimating for the following year. I would like to refer to additional information that was given to the Senate in the form of a letter from  Mr J.  G. Hinton, Assistant Secretary, Services Branch, Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. Right at the end of that letter, which replied to questions on the subject of estimating the costs of VIP flights, it is stated: 
Use  or  funds from the Advance to the Minister for Finance resulted from an unforeseen increase in usage of 34 Squadron aircraft attributed to VIP operations.  ( Quorum formed). 
I have not spoken on the Appropriation Bills because I have respected the pressures of time and the sacrifices that other senators have made in relation to their speaking opportunities in this session. I would just like noted for the record that the speech I give, having taken the opportunity of speaking in Committee, is limited to 15 minutes. I intended to raise three points which I thought would have been of concern to the Labor Party. The points are: First, the matter of how Parliament runs itself; secondly, VIP flights; and thirdly, expenditure on the GovernorGeneral's establishments. Some of my time has been used up by the calling of quorums which of course members of the Opposition are perfectly entitled to do. It is their absence from this chamber which means that extra time is used up. I will not use more than my 1 5 minutes. If I do not manage to cover all the topics, I am very sorry that I have not been able to give justice to these subjects in the Senate. I certainly try to do my best. Returning to the letter that I was quoting, it states: 
When the 1978/79 Additional Estimates were prepared by the Department of Defence VIP hours were assessed on the basis of the pattern of flying between the first and second halves of the year would be the same as occurred in the previous year. On this basis total VIP hours were expected to be 2670. In the event 2999 hours were charged. 
There is then another comment. No explanation was given as to why the extra hours were charged. There might be a very good reason. I am saying that I do not think the Senate has been given either in Estimates committees or by additional information a proper explanation of why VIP estimates are consistently so low and why the extra money has to be taken from the Advance to the Minister for Finance every year. We have had some debate in this place on the use of the Advance to the Minister for Finance. We have recently had a report from the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations on the matter which did not make it final. The Estimates Committee did not make a stronger comment in its report because it was awaiting that report from the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations. However, the Estimates Committee indicated its concern over the consistent use of the Advance to the Minister for Finance for meeting additional costs of VIP flights which we think on a long basis of history could quite reasonably be estimated rather higher than they were and continue to be. 
The third item that I wish to raise, and I think time will probably run out on me to do it proper justice, is the matter of the allowance to the Governor-General which appears under the estimates of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. Curiosity was aroused by the fact that the accounting seemed to be very particular in this case. In the questioning of officers from the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet and in additional information received after the Committee had reported we were told: 
Expenditure under appropriation items for the Official Establishments, other than the Allowance for the GovernorGeneral, are totally auditable under the Audit Act. 
Because the funds are provided as an Allowance, the Governor-General is not required to refund any balance of the Allowance unspent at the end of the financial year and any such balance is applied to official expenditure in the following year, with the appropriation being adjusted accordingly. 
These accounts are audited privately. I am not suggesting there is anything wrong with the audit. I am not suggesting there is anything improper about the way the allowance is being used by Government House. I do suggest, however, that it is nonsense to put to the Senate an estimate which pretends to add the figures up to a certain amount when we are told in evidence that in fact that may not have been the total. If there was some money left over- we do not know whether there was any money left over because that information is not available to anyone other than the Auditor-General on a private basisthen it is applied to the next year. Under those circumstances the Senate can make no proper scrutiny of that item. We have made the comment in our report that if we are not to be given information relating to the allowance to the Governor-General so that we can make any sensible sort of examination of the expenditure of those public funds then those estimates should not be part of the Appropriation Bill. The money should be appropriated in some other way, under some special Appropriation Bill or some suitable device. We should stop playing 'let us pretend ' with the subject of the allowance to the Governor-General for upkeep of the GovernorGeneral 's establishments. Questions were asked of the Auditor-General about whether this proposal, that is, a special Appropriation Bill, had ever been considered. They were also asked of a representative of the Department of Finance. I report to the Senate that the answers were curt and to the point. The Auditor-General said: 
This is a matter on which the Auditor-General has not expressed, and would not wish to express, an opinion. 
I am obliged to the Auditor-General for telling me that he has not expressed an opinion. He does not explain why he would not wish to express an opinion. If the Senate ever asks him to express an opinion in the future, as the Senate would be entitled to do, I hope he will give a proper explanation of that comment. The Department of Finance said in the last sentence of its letter: 
I now confirm that there is no indication from this Department 's records of the Auditor-General's having indicated a view on the matter raised. 
That is not an answer to the question asked. We asked whether the Department of Finance had a view on it. That matter is not settled. This is not a matter of great moment in a sense because it is not a large amount of money. As I have said, I am not suggesting there is anything improper. However, I think the Senate should be clear on what it is doing when its Estimates committees are considering the Estimates, and when those committees are reporting and recommending that estimates be approved. We should be able to discuss these things sensibly. I suggest to the Senate, and the Senate can make of it what it will, that in the case of the allowance to the Governor-General the Senate has no information on which to form a conclusion. 
I, along with  Senator Ryan,  appreciate the pressures on the Senate this week in considering its business. We seek to take the opportunity which is provided by consideration of the estimates for the Department of Foreign Affairs which includes multilateral aid programs to speak briefly in the Senate on this matter. We appreciate the assistance that has been given to us by other honourable senators in enabling us to take up this short amount of time to make formal public statements for the public record on our visit to Kampuchea last week. I shall endeavour not to repeat those sections of our experience that  Senator Ryan  has outlined but shall elaborate on some other aspects of the journey which I believe are of significance to this country and of significance to the horrendous refugee problem that exists in Thailand as a result of problems in Kampuchea, and the difficult problems that exist in Kampuchea itself. 
Australians are assisting in the resolution of that problem in a number of ways. I believe that there is a very real concern in Australia for the very unfortunate victims of the situation which has ruled in Kampuchea for the last few years and which currently obtains. I think that is demonstrated when one looks at the level of support that has been given from Australia both by the Government and by the public in an attempt to alleviate the problem in some small measure. Therefore, I think that it is relevant that  Senator Ryan  and I should report back to the Parliament and to the public on what we saw of the way that both Government and private donations are being used and on indications that were given to us of what might happen in the future. 
As  Senator Ryan  indicated, our visit was important in the sense that we were the first Australian members of Parliament to be permitted to enter the country since the fall of the Lon Nol government. It ought to be noted publicly that we applied to enter the country on very short notice. We applied only a few days before we actually went to Phnom Penh and with the difficulties of communication over there it is clear that the Kampuchean authorities were very swift indeed in giving us approval to join the United States congressional delegation to enter their country. It ought to be reported to the Parliament that when we went into the country in a United States Air Force plane with what had originally been a United States congressional delegation, the Kampuchean authorities accorded us as Australian members of Parliament totally equal status with the United States congresswomen and made a point of ensuring that whenever they referred to the delegation they mentioned both the Americans and Australians. One can conclude from that that there was some significance to the Kampucheans themselves in their very deliberate decision to allow us to enter their country in quite a unique way. 
I would like to speak for a few minutes about a number of matters that were raised with us in Phnom Penh as well as making a few comments on the subject of aid. We met in Phnom Penh with Hun Sen who is the Foreign Minister under the Heng Samrin regime. I will briefly report the issues that he chose to raise with us, that is, a delegation of representatives from the United States of America and Australia. There is some significance in the topics he chose to raise. There had been a great deal of controversy and heartburning throughout the world on the attitude that the authorities in Phnom Penh had taken towards receiving aid through the international agencies for the Kampucheans who are still living in Kampuchea. Previously the Heng Samrin regime had set a condition that aid would not be accepted from, those agencies which also sought to distribute aid to Kampucheans in the areas of Kampuchea not dominated by either the Vietnamese or the Heng Samrin regime. That has sparked a great deal of feeling and was very much the instrument in stirring the Congress women to seek to visit the country and to carry the message that the world wants to help these people who are starving. 
The message  Senator Ryan  and I took is that Australians want to help these people who are in this desperate plight. They do not want to be involved in local politics; they just want to help people who are in" very obvious need. The Foreign Minister told us that he did not believe aid should go to both sides and said that to give aid both to Phnom Penh and across the Thai border was to challenge the sovereignty of the Heng Samrin regime. He termed giving aid across the Thai border as an act of aggression. Nevertheless he went on to state very strongly that the country wanted aid and that suggestions that the Heng Samrin regime would not allow aid in to its own people were lies which were spread by enemies of the country. We placed strong emphasis on the fact that the country would accept aid. When we pressed him on how it would be made available he said that the authorities were prepared to accept aid through the international agencies. When we asked him which international agencies- I think that this was the most significant thing to come out of our visit to Phnom Penh- he specified all agencies currently in Phnom Penh, which included the United Nations Children's Fund and the International Committee of the Red Cross which are two agencies which had not accepted the condition of giving aid to only one side. These agencies had insisted throughout on their right to give aid to people in need wherever they may be. It is now clear that the Heng Samrin authorities have dropped that condition to receiving aid from those two agencies. That was very good news indeed. 
On the matter of actually delivering and distributing aid in, we had a lengthy discussion. One of the great difficulties has been that Phnom Penh airport is in such bad condition. It can take aircraft of only a limited size, and only a limited number of flights a day. Aid has been getting in through the airport but it has been emergency aid, the kind of food that one flies in for people who are very very ill, as well as small quantities of rice and maize. Medicine has been getting in, as have some transport vehicles, but access through Phnom Penh airport has necessarily been very limited because of the condition of the airport. 
Kompong Som harbour has now been repaired to the stage at which it can take vessels of a reasonable size. Very recently it was announced that the Mekong River would be open to boat traffic and thus it would be able to transport significant volumes of food up river through Vietnam and into Kampuchea. In regard to the method of distribution, the authorities indicated that their first preference, was that aid should come in through the port of Kompong Som because it was best able to handle large amounts. They also said that the Mekong Riverwas very significant because, as well as enabling the shipment of large amounts of food up to Phnom Penh, it could be used to distribute food within the country in which, we are informed, not one bridge on the roads is left standing. That very small piece of information might give people some idea of the incredible difficulty of distributing aid within the country. I repeat, all of the bridges have been destroyed. 
When pressed on the subject of bringing in aid through Phnom Penh airport, the authorities said that they would agree to the receipt of as much aid as the airport could handle; that they would agree immediately, if necessary, to increasing substantially the number of daily flights that could come in. However, they emphasised that they did not believe that it was the best way of bringing in large amounts of aid. When pressed on whether they would agree to flights to provincial airports, in view of the great difficulty of transportation by road, in order to get food out to the provinces, the authorities said that they 'would consider it'. I think that I can say on behalf of  Senator Ryan  and myself that effectively they were saying 'no'. They did not really, in our opinion, rate that as a possibility. 
When asked their priority of need for aid, they listed them in this order- food, medicine, clothing and transport. I must say that the inclusion of clothing was a small surprise to us. We would have thought that transport would have come third after medicine. When questioned closely on it, they said that clothing was their third priority. We were informed that the Pol Pot authorities had taken away from the people all but one set of clothing. They are desperately short of basic clothing for the population. 
The question of medical aid raises the question of medical personnel. We visited a hospital which had 600 beds and only four doctors. As far as we were aware, in the pan of the hospital that we saw, all of the 600 patients were very ill indeed. They had no laboratory facilities, pathology facilities, X-ray machines or ancillary equipment of that kind. Obviously, they desperately need that sort of support service- not just medicine but the support services that go with it. Clearly, they also need additional personnel. They must now face the problem of bringing in foreigners so that medical facilities may reach the people effectively. When asked whether they would consider proposals for bringing in foreign medical personnel, again they said that they would consider it'. They gave an equivocal answer. Proposals on this subject have been put to them in the past and rejected. Again I think I can say on behalf of  Senator Ryan  and myself that our reading of the answer was that while it was an equivocation there were positive overtones and there may be some chance- under whatever conditions we are not aware- of getting some medical personnel into the country. They did mention that there were in the country some Vietnamese medical personnel, but we received the impression that there were not many. That is a summary of our meeting with the Foreign Minister, which was the most significant event that we participated in there. 

 Senator Ryan has covered the subject of aid. I would like, in one or two minutes, to make a few comments on that subject. Aid is being sent from Australia in two forms. It is going in direct aidwhere the Government has decided that it will spend money on specific programs- and through the international agencies.  Senator Ryan  has said quite a bit about the international agencies and how well they are working there. I would endorse that in order to reassure the Parliament and the Australian public that the aid that is received from public sources, whether governmental or through individual donations to public agencies, is being used very well indeed. Also, the Australian Government has supported and funded one or two specific programs and comment on these was made while we were in Thailand. I refer to the provision of a medical team in the refugee camp of Sa Keo, the provision of a Hercules aircraft to fly from Bangkok to Phnom Penh with the emergency supplies to which I referred earlier, and the provision of a jumbo jet load of tarpaulins and medical supplies which last weekend flew to Bangkok, courtesy of Qantas Airways Ltd. There was comment on that from aid personnel. Clearly, if specific assistance is to be given that is the sort that the Government ought to be giving. For example, the point was made that a Hercules aircraft is ideal for flying into an airport which is in such a bad state as is that of Phnom Penh. Other countries have offered 747s and DC 10s but they cannot land aircraft of that size at that airport. Our decision to send a Hercules was a very wise one. 
The ICRC and other aid agencies are stockpiling tarpaulins, food, medicine and so on in anticipation of a huge influx of refugees in a condition similar to that of the poor wretches who are in Sa Keo, the camp which has received so much publicity in recent times. I join with  Senator Ryan  in reassuring the Government and the public that the money that we are spending there is well appreciated. It is understood that Australia is making a significant contribution. Many people have said to me since I came back from Kampuchea: 'We know it is terrible and we feel strongly about it, but what can we do?' I say to them that they can do something. They can give money, money which will be used very well. I was gratified to read in the Press of the last couple of days that the Australian public, through private donations, has now contributed more than $4m to the Kampuchean Relief Fund. That news is extremely welcome. 
I make one final point. The congresswomen sought to make a particular point about the children of Kampuchea and the very desperate state that they were in. Of the many tragedies the we saw- it is the first time that I have seen directly the effects of war- the plight of the children was heart-rending. We saw in a number of cases evidence that there are very few Kampuchean children. We noted in refugee camps the very low proportion of young children in relation to the total population. In an orphanage in Phnom Penh we noted a very small number of children under the age of six. In circumstances of extreme hardship it is the old and the very young who die first because they are the ones who are most vulnerable- as the Kampuchean children have proved to be. It is tragic to watch the stunting, as well as the death, of so many of them. In Kampuchea we saw not only a devastated country but also a devastated race, a devastated civilisation. Whatever we can do as Australians, as very wealthy individuals in a very rich country, to alleviate the extraordinary suffering and devastation that that race and country have undergone we must do. 
