Has the attention of the Minister for Transport been drawn to a report in the Launceston  Examiner  that the Australian National Railways Commission would not proceed with the upgrading of the Fingal Valley Railway line in the current financial year? Can the Minister confirm whether the report is correct and indicate what action the Government intends to follow with this project? 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  At the outset I should like to say that I feel a sense of pride in being able to stand in this place representing the people of Wilmot and the people of Tasmania. In the period since the election I have had talks with some people about my having the opportunity to sit in this House. Some of them claimed that I have come here for no better reason than to collect the socalled massive salaries of politicians and for good living. I assure you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and this House and also the people of Wilmot that I have no great desire to sit in this House in an uncomfortable seat or to be here eating good food and getting fat on the riches of the land. My purpose in standing at the election was to ensure that not only the people of Wilmot but also the people of Australia could look forward with assurance to freedom in this great country. We have seen a period of 3 years of government in which people were not sure that they, their children or their grandchildren could look forward with confidence to freedom. But I believe that with the results of the election on 13 December there is now a resurgence of confidence in the Australian community. I know of my own assurance that I can now be sure that my children and their children can look forward to the same sort of heritage, the same prosperity and the same opportunities that I have been able to enjoy. 
I should like to join with other speakers in congratulating the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden)  on being elected as  Speaker  of this House. I also congratulate the honourable member for Lyne,  Mr Lucock,  on being elected  Deputy Speaker  and  Chairman  of Committees. I believe that these were most significant elections because with the election of those gentlemen to the high offices that they hold we will once again see some sense of dignity and decorum returned to this House. Over a period of 3 years we have seen that those traditions that we hold dear to our hearts and our Australian way of life have been undermined and ridiculed. But I believe that if we are to offer the sort of leadership that this nation is looking for at this time we must look to the Houses of Parliament as a way of offering the leadership that the people want. I believe that with the election of those 2 gentlemen to the high offices that they hold a start has been made and we can look to more rational debate coming from this House. 
But I think that it goes further than just the election of those 2 gentlemen to their offices. There is little doubt in my mind that the Australian people were most frustrated and even scared in some cases of the trend the Australian nation was following under a Labor Government. This trend has now been reversed as a result of the December election and we are seeing a government which is accepting its responsibilities rather than trying to pass the buck. No one doubts that the major issue in Australia today is the state of the economy in which we are facing a $4.7 billion deficit in the Budget and also the massive rate of inflation that no society can live with. The Government is not passing the buck. I believe it is true to say that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  accepts that the buck stops on his desk, that he is accepting his responsibility. As the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said in this place this morning there is a resurgence of confidence amongst the business community and amongst the general community that gives people hope for the future. 
I think it is worth reminding all those who would aspire to high office in this country that bad morale and bad discipline are not qualities that start from the bottom and work up; they always start from the top and filter down. It is a pity that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  has left this chamber. Perhaps he should remind himself of those things. The leadership that he gave this nation in my opinion was nothing more than deplorable. It is pleasing to see that now we are seeing strong, firm leadership in which the Australian nation can have confidence. 
I should like to pay a tribute to my predecessor in this place,  Mr Duthie,  who served the people of Wilmot and the people of Tasmania with conscientious dedication. He was devoted to the people of his electorate. He worked hard on their behalf. I think that the standard of work that he set as a politician should be a guide to all those who would aspire to public office. However, I can well understand his frustration, having sat on the opposition benches for 23 years with all the hopes and aspirations of what his Party could do in government, and seeing the end result that it produced. He had great hopes for the rural community of Australia. He had great hopes for the country people- those people living in country towns. But the bungling ineptitude that resulted from his Party in office must surely be one of the highlights of his memoirs, which I understand he is about to write. 
Since I have been in this place I have experienced in my mind both a sense of disgust and a sense of delight. The disgust has been brought about mainly by the actions of the honourable gentlemen opposite. It started right at the opening day of Parliament. They chose out of stupid, boyish actions to boycott the opening ceremonies. Quite frankly, as I left this chamber to walk over to the Senate I thought that their actions were very much the actions of a group of adolescent schoolboys who had lost their toffee apples. How can the ordinary people of Australia who are looking to the Parliament for leadership and guidance have any confidence in people who choose to act in such an immature way? Their actions confirm in my mind the wisdom that was shown on 13 December in putting them back on the Opposition benches. 
My delight has been in observing in this place the quality of the new honourable members who have been elected to this House for the first time. I feel a great sense of pleasure and delight- and also a sense of relief- in looking around me and seeing my new found colleagues and the quality and the obvious ability that is contained within them. Not only I but also the Australian nation can have confidence that, if we have such talent rising in this House for the first time, we can look to sound, stable leadership in this Parliament and in Australia for many years to come. I am quite certain in my mind that those people who may not yet have carved a name for themselves in Australian politics will certainly leave themselves in the history books of Australia before they finish their political careers. 
My own electorate is quite a mixed bag of tricks, containing within it very large sections of Tasmania's agriculture, but at the same time having some quite large manufacturing plants and also some of the most magnificent tourist spots that could be imagined anywhere in Australia. The economy is diverse. It is also in dire straits. One of the problems that we have in the Wilmot electorate and in Tasmania concerns our dairy industry. I know that the Tasmanian dairy industry is not unique in this problem, which extends over the whole industry in Australia. But in my mind it is not feasible to expect the dairy farmer- the ordinary, average chap down on the farm milking old Strawberryto expect that he could receive 70c a pound for butter fat during last season, which just allowed him to remain solvent and then reduce his income back to 43c a pound for the current season, and expect him to remain outside the bankruptcy courts. If this situation is allowed to continue I believe we will be facing a catastrophic situation in the dairy industry, bringing with it immense social problems in Tasmania and Victoria particularly. I know that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and the Government are faced with very serious economic problems. The Minister has said already that he is sympathetic towards the problems of the dairy industry and that assistance through government agencies will be offered. So we seem to have a rather anomalous situation where an industry is crying out for help, a Minister and a government are saying: 'We will help you', yet no assistance is forthcoming. 
Much of the blame for the situation in which the dairy industry now finds itself must be levelled at those people who call themselves leaders of the dairy industry. For at least 10 years the dairy industry has faced the situation of being phased out of markets in Britain and Europe. This inevitably must have suggested to those leaders in the dairy industry that restructuring of their marketing was essential; yet nothing happened. In my opinion, for years the dairy industry leaders have done nothing more than try to protect their own little castles without any due respect to the rank and file dairy farmers they represent. It seems most unreasonable to me to face that situation of parochial ineptitude within the industry, then expect governments to bail farmers out. If this industry is to get back on its feet, those people who choose to call themselves leaders in the industry must forget their parochialism, forget the States that they represent, think bigger, and think about the industry of Australia. I have been somewhat at a loss to see a most able man in the person of  Mr Tony  Webster come into the dairy industry as a leader, bringing with him a breath of fresh air and innovative ideas, and then be subjected to a program of vilification that would have done the members of the Australian Labor Party opposite proud. This industry will never get off the ground while those people who act in such a way as leaders of the industry maintain the parochialism that is current in the industry at the moment. I only hope that they will see the light of day and that they will come forward to the Minister with sound proposals that will give hope to the average dairy farmer back on his farm. 
Another project of significance to the Wilmot electorate is that proposed by Associated Pulp and Paper Mills. That company has a $150m project on the drawing board, but unfortunately it cannot get off the ground at this stage because of the competition from imported papers, particularly from Finland. I impress on the Government the need to review the most unfortunate policies of our predecessors who cut tariffs across the board by 25 per cent, and to look at the problems of Australian industry in a more realistic light. It is not my nature to pick a fight with anyone, but I feel compelled to take issue with my jovial little colleague, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  wherever he might be. 
-Well done. I quote from page 347 of the House of Representatives  Hansard.  The honourable member for Mackellar was speaking of New South Wales in this chamber last week and said: 
We have carried Australia on our backs for long enough. It is time that some of the small States grew up and started to carry their own burdens. They are living on New South Wales. 
I should like to point out to the honourable gentleman and to the House that many of the companies operating in the smaller States, particularly Tasmania and Western Australia have their headquarters based in Sydney or Melbourne. For this reason, any of the taxation revenue or other revenues that are attributable to those companies are accredited as having been raised in New South Wales or Victoria. I point out to the House that it is the larger, more populous States which in fact are living on the natural resources of the smaller States. I notice that I have brought a laugh from the honourable member for Mackellar. But Tasmania is not looking to be subsidised by Victoria or New South Wales. All we are asking for is to get our own money back from our own natural resources so that we can develop our own State. Look at the electorate of Kalgoorlie, which would contain some of the vast natural resources of the State of Western Australia and which must be injecting massive amounts of money into the Australian economy. I venture to suggest that if the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  chose to declare unilateral independence, he could set himself up as a sheik with the wealth that he has in his electorate and could even buy himself a harem. 
I believe that during the election campaign the people of Wilmot very clearly recognised the issues that were being faced by Australia. A lot of publicity was given to policy issues by the Parties on both sides of this House, but I believe that those people living in country areas were able to identify with far greater clarity, much better than honourable gentleman opposite, the key issues of the election. I believe very firmly that the election of 13 December was fought on the basis of freedom. We hear a lot about other issues. We heard an awful lot about the Constitution too, but that was not the key issue on which the election was fought. It was fought on the basis of freedom, and people throughout Australia were genuinely concerned that their freedom was being impinged upon and undermined. 
We in Wilmot ask no more of any government than that it simply leave us in peace without, as the former Premier of Tasmania said, having people from Canberra coming to Tasmania and treading over us with their hob-nailed boots. We reject the idea that people living on the shores of Lake Burley Griffin have more wisdom than the people of Tasmania. All wisdom is not here in Canberra; it is dispersed throughout Australia. We in Tasmania and in Wilmot want only to have the freedom to make our own decisions without being impinged on by big brother from Canberra. We want the freedom to take our own initiatives because we think we know what is best for Tasmania. We want the freedom to work hard and we want the freedom to profit as a result of hard work. I believe that those ambitions are not just restricted to Tasmanians, but are shared by people throughout the Australian nation. I think that our ambitions were summarised very well over 100 years ago by Abraham Lincoln. He said: 
You cannot bring about prosperity by discouraging thrift. 
You cannot help small men by tearing down big men. 
I recommend those words to the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes). 
You cannot strengthen the weak by weakening the strong. 
You cannot lift the wage earner by pulling down the wage payer. 
You cannot help the poor man by destroying the rich. 
You cannot keep out of trouble by spending more than your income. 
I note that the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  is not here. 
You cannot further the brotherhood of man by inciting class hatred. 
You cannot establish security on borrowed money. 
You cannot build character and courage by taking away man's initiative and independence. 
You cannot help men permanently by doing for them what they could and should do for themselves. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Before calling on the honourable member for Grayndler I remind honourable members that this is his maiden speech and that the usual courtesies should be observed. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. During the visit yesterday of the Tasmanian Premier to Canberra was the northwest regional water scheme discussed? Did the Premier give any indication as to whether his Government had used its influence to induce certain municipalities to join the scheme? What action does the Commonwealth intend to follow in this matter? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development aware that under the direction of the former Federal Labor Government 70 per cent of welfare houses built by the States and funded by the Commonwealth were available on only a rental basis? Will this policy be continued by the present Government? Is it possible for existing tenants now to purchase the homes that they are renting? 
Is the Minister for Health aware of a report in the Tasmanian newspapers at the weekend stating that the Tasmanian Minister for Health has advocated the banning of the advertising of alcohol on television as a follow up to the Government's decision to ban cigarette advertising? Is the Minister considering further restrictions on commercial advertising? Does he feel that the decision to ban cigarette advertising will lead to pressure on the Government by interest groups in the community to ban the advertising of other products? 
I commence my speech by saying that a wise old gentleman who was wise in the ways of politics reminded me when I started my political career that I should stand up, speak up and shut up, and that is exactly what I intend to do tonight. 
It is a pity that the honourable member for Blaxland does not listen to his own words. I support the legislation. While I disagree with the description of the legislation that it offers stabilisation to the fruit industries I support the theme of the Bill that stabilisation should be afforded to those industries that are vital paticularly to some of the smaller States like Western Australia and Tasmania. There are two major reasons why, in my opinion, stabilisation is required by government action. First, we need to look at the political decisions that were made in Europe with the formation of the European Economic Community coming under the framework of a common agricultural policy. That agreement between the countries of Europe caused quite massive disruptions to the orderly marketing of primary produce in Australia. We are talking about the fruit industry but it also affected quite a number of our agricultural products, particularly dairy products and a number of other rural products of industries that are now in great difficulty. So I think that when we make decisions of this kind we need to be conscious of the political decisions that have been made in other countries and also that they need to be matched by political decisions in Australia. In some countries, particularly New Zealand which provides some of the greatest competition to Australian primary produce, farmers are very heavily subsidised by the Government. 
The other point that I think needs to be given thought to when we are talking about stabilising the fruit industry is the high cost of shipping, as was mentioned by the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck).  It was pointed out in the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation report for 1974-75 that the incidence of freight rates on the value of the product is so high, in fact over 60 per cent of the c.i.f. value to Britain and Europe, that it has become the major factor in determining the future viability of large sections of the trade. I think we need to be conscious of that because in my opinion what is happening in this country, particularly in respect of some of our rural products, is that our hard-working farmers are in fact working as long as 14 hours every day of the week to put money in the pockets of waterside workers and other people who are engaged in the stevedoring industry. In my opinion this is grossly inequitable. Those people who do the work should be remunerated because they do the work. I think we need to be conscious of that fact and when we are considering, in line with our industrial relations policy, the new agreement for the stevedoring industry this sort of thing needs to be corrected. 
There are other reasons why support by governments can be justified for the fruit industry and in fact for other rural industries in Australia. We need to recognise the fact that a large proportion of our fruit is sold on the export market 'at risk'. In trading on the export market a large quantity of that fruit is affected by our economic policies. That is, the value of the Australian dollar is determined so as to offer the greatest benefit to the greatest number of Australian people. In setting the value of the Aus.tralian dollar it is affording protection to our manufacturing industry by protecting it against cheaper imports from overseas, but the policy of determining the value of the Australian dollar is creating problems for those industries that operate on the export market, particularly our primary industries, including our mining industries. If it is fair enough for a government to afford protection to our manufacturing industry by setting a value, an arbitrary value, for the Australian dollar then it is equally reasonable to expect the Government to provide some sort of compensation for those industries that are going to be disadvantaged as a result of that decision. If we take this factor alone into account it puts paid to a lot of the arguments that are put forward on our rural industries by supporters of the Australian Labor Party. 
Another factor that needs to be borne in mind is the price of food on the Australian market. Again we hear a lot of publicity and a lot of comment from honourable members opposite about the price that Australian consumers have to pay for food in Australian supermarkets. There is a lot of hullabaloo about the price of food con.stantly rising and the housewives of this country being disadvantaged as a result of the high cost of food. I read a very interesting article quite recently in the March edition of the  Pastoral Review  titled "The Quiet Revolution in Household Spending'. That article stated that the average household spending on food in 1959-60 was 19.6c in each earned dollar and that by 1975 this 

<graphic href="099131197605042_42_0.jpg"></graphic>

Notes: includes cost of home ownership,   includes  car ownership. 
I have incorporated that table because I think the information contained in it is such as to be of interest to both members on the Opposition side and to members on the Government side, and I think it will make very interesting reading in  Hansard.  I think it contains some facts to which not enough publicity is given and it might put paid to a lot of the arguments that are presented from the Opposition benches. I am disappointed with the legislation that is being put forward in that it offers $2 per case for a maximum of 2 million cases. In my opinion the industry has presented very sound arguments to show that this assistance is not enough to provide sufficient stabilisation to a very vital industry. 
There are sound arguments, as I said. I am attacking the report of the Industries Assistance Commission and I am attacking some had fallen to 12.2c in each earned dollar and by 1 980 is expected to fall to just over 10c in the dollar. That indicates in my mind that in fact Australians are buying cheaper food. It is cheaper because less of the average weekly earnings is being devoted to the purchase of food and more is being devoted to other items like entertainment. That article accompanied a table setting out the changes in food prices and other items that are absorbing the average weekly earnings between the years 1959-60 and 1974-75 and the forecast for the year 1979-80. I seek leave to have that table incorporated in  Hansard. 

<graphic href="099131197605042_42_0.jpg"></graphic>

of poverty in the Huon valley. I think the honourable member for Franklin would bear out that statement. I would suggest that this same situation exists in other parts of Tasmania and, as I mentioned particularly, on the Tasman peninsula. I would venture to suggest that the only reason the Henderson commission did not report on conditions in the Tasman peninsula area is that it did not visit the area. It is my contention that in fact people in the peninsula area are worse off than people in the Huon valley. I believe we have an obligation as a government to look after the social interests of those people who are very disadvantaged, particularly the small landholders of this country. We hear much talk about people in urban areas who need to be protected from some of the ravages within our economy. Last week or the week before in this Parliament we were considering a Bill introduced to pay higher superannuation benefits to public servants. Public servants at the moment live on top salaries but apparently they require more money to live in their retirement. We are talking about people who work as long as 14 hours a day for a mere pittance, people who in fact are living in poverty. I believe we have an obligation to protect these hard working people of Australia rather than the people who intend to live in luxury in their retirement. 
Another factor that I believe we need to take into account is that if this industry is not given sufficient forms of protection there will be a continued decimation of the fruit industry in Tasmania. As mentioned by the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Drummond)  in his speech on rural construction, over the past few years we have had a tree pull program in the fruit industry. In Tasmania the orchardists have responded throughout the years to the policies of various governments in this regard. It is interesting to note, again in the Apple and Pear Corporation's report for 1974-75, that apple production in Tasmania in 1965 amounted to 6.2 million bushels but by 1975 it had fallen to 4.9 million bushels. In New South Wales in 1965 production amounted to 2.9 million bushels but by 1975 it had risen to 5.6 million bushels. In my mind I cannot justify any federal government providing public money to encourage people out of a particular industry in a particular area, by such means as the tree pull scheme, while production of that same product is rising in another area of the country. In my opinion the Tasmanian orchardists have been responsible. They have responded to trends in world marketing and have done their best to reduce the level of production. I think the New South Wales orchardists have to accept more of the obligation. They ought to be under the same sort of restraints that apply in other States of Australia. 
If stabilisation is to be offered it should be offered on a basis that will allow production to be brought into line with market demands. If one State responds I cannot justify another State taking advantage of its response. I think the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and the Government need to take that factor into account when considering future stabilisation plans. 
The Minister is quite right. It was only as a result of the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  bringing that fact to light that members of the Labor Party bothered to join us in the chamber. There is a need to provide stabilisation for rural industries in Tasmania. At the moment we are discussing the fruit stabilisation bills but I believe that the dairy industry is in the same category. In Tasmania we are not as fortunate as some of the other States whose rural industries are based on very large land holdings in grazing industries. We have a section of grazing industries but in Tasmania our rural industries largely are based on small family farms, mainly dairies and orchards. As most honourable members would be aware, at the moment those small family farms are in a very bad economic situation. Later we will be considering a Bill to offer stabilisation to the dairy industry but at this stage we are considering a Bill to offer stabilisation to the fruit industry. I disagree strongly with some members of the Opposition who say that money offered to rural industry is going to big landholders. A lot of false statements are being made by members of the Labor Party. In most cases government money offered to rural industry is offered to small landholders, those landholders who, as pointed out by the Henderson report, are living in poverty. The honourable member for Denison pointed out in his speech that last year the average orchardist in Tasmania made a profit of $800. How many workers at the General Motors-Holden's Pry Ltd plant would work 14 hours a day for $800 a year? 
Not one, as the honourable member for St George says. We need to bear these things in mind. We are not talking about people who prefer to go down to the wharves and bludge; we are talking about people who are prepared to work 14 hours a day and we are asking them to live in poverty. Our rural industries have been the lifeblood of Australia. They were the industries that set the traditions of this country. I believe that this Government and any future government has an obligation to ensure that the rural industries which provide the lifeblood of Australia are properly protected and given a fair and reasonable slice of the cake in the Australian economy. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Before I call the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  I would point out that the mere fact that the House agrees to the incorporation of matter in  Hansard  does not necessarily mean that that material is incorporated. Such incorporation is still subject to the authority of  Mr Speaker  and to the capacity of  Hansard  to include such material. 
I direct my question to the Treasurer. When does the Government expect to make a decision on the Industries Assistance Commission's recommendations relating to the gold mining industry? In the light of earlier discussions I have had with the Treasurer, can he indicate when a decision will be made on the nontaxability of gold mining profits? 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the annual costs to the Australian Broadcasting Control Board in respect of program monitoring of television and radio by its staff throughout Australia. 
What are the annual costs of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board in respect of technical inspections of television and radio stations throughout Australia. 
As a large number of staff are involved, can these costs be calculated to include the cost of supplying administration office space, and all other overheads associated with the work. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Can the Minister give an indication of the Government's proposed policy intentions towards the Tasmanian fruit industry, in particular the level of support that may be available for next season's crop? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. Is the Minister aware of recent Press statements claiming that the Australian National Line has lost half a million dollars as a result of the foolish and futile strike by crew members of the  Australian Trader  which has tied that ship up at the wharf at Bell Bay since 29 July? Are these statements correct? If so, is it a fact that this money will be recouped by the Australian National Line increasing freight charges to Tasmania? 
-I have travelled around this country and have been in shearing sheds and country pubs all over the place and I thought I had become immune to excessive gall, but the temerity of members of the Australian Labor Party in proposing a matter of public importance in regard to unemployment leaves even me spellbound. I can well accept that they are experts on unemployment because, let us face it, when was unemployment in Australia created? It was not evident when the Labor Party took over government in 1972, as well the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  knows. 
-That is right. As the honourable member for Wakefield says, unemployment was all the Labor Party's own work. As the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  said in his speech earlier, in 1 972 when the Liberal-Country Party Government was defeated at the general election 136 000 people were unemployed. The honourable member for Port Adelaide would know that when his Party left government in 1975, the level of unemployment had reached 328 000. 
They did not. It was just sheer negligence that caused it to happen. Members of the Opposition know all about unemployment. I should like to take up just a couple of points that the honourable member for Port Adelaide raised in his speech. He seems to have a misunderstanding of the scheme introduced by the Minister for the relocation of workers. I hope that the honourable member does not leave the chamber, as he may be interested to know that there is no limit to the amount of money available for relocation for people to find other jobs. I again say to the honourable member 'Do not leave us yet; you may be interested in some of these points'. There is no limit to the amount available for relocation. The Minister was using examples only. But in the Budget and in the amount allocated by the Treasury, there is an open-ended - 
I am sorry about that. He may have learnt something had he stayed. There is no limit involved. At this stage the amount is an open cheque. Until we have more factual information it is impossible for the Government to put a firm figure on how much money will be allocated for this particular scheme. The honourable member for Port Adelaide also quoted from an article in the  Australian  newspaper which claimed that information about the scheme was not available through the Department. It is a strange thing to me that on the same day details showing a map of all the employment opportunities throughout Australia were published in the Melbourne  Sun.  If a reporter from the Melbourne  Sun  could find out those details from the Department, why could not a reporter from the  Australian  newspaper do so? Perhaps a little bit more initiative should have been shown by one particular reporter. 
I should like to refer also to the policies pursued by the Australian Labor Party when it was in government. Honourable members should bear in mind that this is when our unemployment problem was created. In effect, what the Labor Party did was to create unemployment in Australia. Then, when it left government in December 1975, it said: 'Now look, chaps, we are sorry we made such a mess. We are handing over to you and we hope you can wave a magic wand and fix it all*. Now honourable members opposite are criticising us because the magic wand is taking a little bit longer to wave than they expected. The people of Australia know darn well that the policies of this Government will fix the state of the economy in Australia and will reduce unemployment. That is more than the Labor Party was able to do in 3 years; rather, it was going in the opposite direction. 
One of the things the Labor Party did while in government, quite callously and without regard to employment opportunities, was to reduce tariffs by 25 per cent across the board. What did this do? The people of Bass well remember what Labor did. Look at what happened in the textile industries and what happened during the following by-election when those policies of the Australian Labor Party and the unemployment that resulted became known to the people who relied on those industries. The Labor Party says it is concerned about unemployment and what happened as a result of its policies. Honourable members opposite might take back to the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  his statement, well remembered in Tasmania, that there are more votes in Newcastle than there are in Tasmania. The honourable member for Newcastle might be trying to forget his statement but not one person in Tasmania has forgotten that statement. 
We intend to go on reminding them, too, believe you me. Quite apart from the Labor Party's policies on tariffs, it is quite apparent to me from listening to the remarks of speakers on the opposite side of the chamber that they still have not recognised the fact that the state of the economy is related to unemployment. They seem to think that people in Australia have a God given right to a job, a God given right to a high wage, and a God given right to a high standard of living, and that it is the ultimate responsibility of industry and private employers throughout Australia to simply snap their fingers and create jobs. That is not possible. Jobs will be created only when we have a sound, stable economy. This Government recognises that and is working towards that end. It is not something that will happen overnight; it is not something we can create by snapping our fingers. It happens because people are prepared to work hard and to act upon a plan on a long-term basis. But the Labor Government obviously did not realise this fact. 
What happened to the inflation rate during the Labor Government's period of office? The rate of inflation, as expressed through the consumer price index, rose from 4.3 per cent in 1972 when the Labor Government assumed office to 14.9 per cent when it left office in December 1975. This Government recognises that there cannot be ' an economic recovery in Australia until that rate of inflation is reduced. Industry cannot create new jobs or employ new workers while its cost structures are so high. The Labor Party and some members of the trade union movement still do not understand this relationship between the state of the economy and the rate of unemployment. 
As the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations said, the high rate of wages is another factor that is affecting the ability of employers to engage new labour. Let us look at some of the figures. In December 1972 when the former Liberal-National Country Party Government left office, average weekly earnings were $82.50. Under the policies of the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  when he was Minister for Labour average weekly earnings increased to $166.70 in December 1975. Yet the Australian Labor Party in its term of office expected industry to be able to absorb those cost increases and maintain a high rate of employment. This was absolutely impossible. I am concerned at the structural unemployment in this country at the moment. Honourable members opposite probably do not know the unemployment rate in Tasmania at present. Perhaps they do not care about it. Look at what the Labor Government did to tariffs. It did not care if Tasmania's textile industries or paper industries closed down. It would have liked to cut the rope and let Tasmania drift out into the Antarctic. 
I inform the honourable member for Gellibrand that the rate of unemployment in Tasmania is 5.5 per cent, as opposed to the national average of 4.5 per cent. But what makes the position so terribly difficult and of great concern in Tasmania is the rate of unemployment among the younger age groups. These include the school leavers and the under-20-year-olds. The honourable member for Gellibrand might be interested to learn that the rate of unemployment for under-20-year-olds in Tasmania is 20 per cent, as against a national average of 13 per cent. When one considers the position of people in those younger age groups and of people in isolated areas the desperate situation in Tasmania becomes quite apparent. We find that 23 per cent of last year's school leavers in Tasmania have been out of a job for 6 months, as against the national average of 14 per cent. 
This Government is concerned about unemployment. It realises that reduction of the rate of unemployment in Australia must be related to the state of the economy. The Government is setting out purposefully, through the Budget and other policy actions, to correct the state of the economy. These actions will work. 
-The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  never ceases to amaze me. He stood here tonight and tried to tell the Committee about all the problems of the rural industries in a way which presumed that he is an expert on the subject. In fact, when his party was in government it did nothing more than preside over the worst depression that Australian rural industries have known since the great world-wide depression of the 1930s. The Government has been in office for 9 months, yet the honourable member has the temerity to come into this House and criticise the actions that have been taken by the Government to correct the economy of this country and get our rural industries back into the prominent position they should justifiably hold. He tried to tell us about the problems of the dairy industry. I would think that the honourable member's knowledge of the dairy industry is such that if he went into a milking shed he would probably hang the cups around the cow's neck. That is about all the knowledge he has of the dairy industry. 
He still does not understand that the problems of the rural industries in Australia were created because of the increase in inflation during the period that his Government was in office. He still does not understand the impact of rural industries on the economy of Australia. Members of the Opposition still think of the rural industries of Australia in terms of their voting strength. We and the nation accept that farmers represent only 8 per cent of our voting strength, and that is all the Labor Party is concerned about. Members on this side are concerned about the impact on the economy of this nation of the rural industries and the people who live out in the bush. Honourable members opposite still do not understand that in 1975-76 gross national earnings from our rural industries amounted to $4, 209.8m, which represented 45.3 per cent of our total gross export earnings- 45.3 per cent, I remind the honourable member for Blaxland. 
When we are debating matters relating to rural industries we need to be conscious of the importance of rural industries in our total national economy and of the flow-on effect this has on all sections of the community. The money that comes in from overseas is not restricted to the bush; it flows through all sections. The attitude being conveyed by honourable members opposite, particularly the honourable member for Blaxland, is that anyone who is engaged in agriculture must necessarily be born and bred of the landed gentry; he must drive a Mercedes or a Volvo and do all in his power to grow rich at the expense of the average worker. That view is totally incorrect. To assume that industry support measures and schemes such as the fertiliser bounty are a rip-off at the taxpayers' expense completely ignores the economic importance of rural industries to the nation. 
They do not understand. In fact, the majority of farmers in Australia own relatively small properties which are owner operated, perhaps with mum and the kids helping out on the farm. Those people epitomise the Australian battler. They work harder than any other section of society for a return which for many of them borders on the poverty line. Yet they contribute enormously to the wealth of this country. Is it any wonder that today a great many farmers are looking at their lot and comparing it most enviously with that of other people in society, particularly those who belong to militant trade unions who have won their rewards at the expense of the farmers out in the bush, who are doing all the hard work. 
I do not blame him. Farmers do not have a conciliation and arbitration commission to which they can appeal for a more equitable share of the cake; nor can they apply to the Prices Justification Tribunal for an increase in their market price. They are totally dependent, at the mercy of the market place. But still members of the Australian Labor Party persist in putting forward their cynical arguments whenever the Government, out of sheer commonsense, proposes some measure of assistance to the primary producer. In the same breath, honourable members have no hesitation in screaming that workers in the shipbuilding industry should be subsidised to the tune of $13,000 per man per year. If other sections of the economy are justified in seeking protection for their industry, so are the farmers. 
I quite agree with the honourable member for Darling Downs. On the other hand, if farmers are to be dependent on what the market place will pay for the fruits of their labour, so should everyone else in society, including the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. In my opinion, the rural industries which are feeling the pinch most at this stage are the fruit industry and dairying industry. The announcement earlier this week by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  of an increase in the Government's underwriting of the butter pool to $1,100 per tonne and to the cheese pool to $750 per tonne is most generous and will allay the apprehensions amongst dairy farmers throughout this nation. This should return approximately 60c per pound of butter fat at the farm gate. The need to increase the dairy farmers' cash flow is so acute that in many cases dairy farmers are unable to go to the family grocer and pay the grocery bill. That is how acute the poverty is in many areas of Australia. In my State of Tasmania, the Premier has engaged in a lot of political huffing and puffing about what the Federal Government should do. But for his own part he has used the plight of dairy farmers only to try to win votes in the forthcoming State election. 
It was shameful. He was prepared to pull the wool over the people 's eyes but he was not prepared to offer any substantive assistance from his coffers. The Federal Government has demonstrated its concern for the dairying industry. If  Mr Neilson  is anything other than a political opportunist and has genuine compassion for the farmer, he will have no hesitation in increasing the Tasmanian farm gate price for butter fat by a further 5 cents to 65 cents per lb. In the case of the fruit industry the Government has increased its support for the apple and pear stabilisation scheme from $3.9m in 1975-76 to $5.6m for the current year. While this industry throughout Australia, and particularly in Tasmania, is experiencing a rapid readjustment due to the breakdown in European markets, the Government is doing its best to cushion the effect on growers, but I believe its best intentions are limited by the necessity to restore national economic stability. However, I appeal to the Minister to investigate any means possible that will alleviate the difficulty of fruit growers who wish only to provide a reasonable standard of living for their families. Surely they have a right to expect that. The industry needs assistance in the short term while it readjusts its varieties to suit the Asian markets that are opening up to it. Given such readjustment, I am confident that the industry, throughout Australia and in Tasmania in particular, has a viable long term future. The Government has shown delicate sensitivity in exercising its economic judgment in the way it has handled the difficult problems facing rural industry. I am confident that the Budget strategies will have long term benefits both for our valuable rural industries and for the nation. 
-Firstly, I should like to congratulate the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  for the way in which he has tackled a most difficult portfolio. I believe that honourable members on both sides of this chamber would agree that the Minister has taken over one of the most difficult portfolios in the Ministry and, by his diligence and conscientious performance, he has won the confidence of both the trade unions and the employers throughout this country. I believe that the performance of the Minister has given us confidence to look forward to a more rational climate of debate in the industrial scene. I congratulate the Minister on his performance. 
In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations, I wish to highlight the allocations that have been made for payments to the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. Looking through the figures, it will be found that in 1974-75 the actual payment was $22.4m, in 1975-76 the payment was $3 7.3m, and the estimate for 1976-77 is $25m for the 6 months ending on 31 December 1976. At that rate, the full annual payment would be $50m. I believe that the taxpayers of Australia have every right to ask where this money is going and why it is increasing at such an exorbitant rate. If I were an ordinary chap working in a factory and paying my taxes each week out of my weekly pay packet, I believe that is the sort of question I would be asking. 
I think we need to understand that the problems on the waterfront and the payments that are made to waterside workers through the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority date back some years, but the problem was accentuated in 1 968 following the Woodward report, which recommended that there should be permanency of waterside labour. I realise that the Waterside Workers Federation had campaigned vigorously over a number of years for permanency for its members. People would agree that in most jobs a worker has every right to expect a permanent job, but the Woodward inquiry's report and the agreements made as a result of that report made conditions on the wharf such that very few people were prepared to leave their employment or to accept what would be a normal turnover of labour. At that time there was quite a revolution both in shipping and on the waterfront, particularly with the advent of roll-on roll-off ferries instead of the conventional type of shipping. With the modernisation of equipment in any industry we accept that, with the more mechanised equipment, there will be a lesser requirement for labour, and the waterside is no different from any other industry. But because of the conditions of employment and the contracts of employment, waterside workers simply did not leave their employment nor was there any way in which they could be asked to leave. The net result was a build up of what might be termed surplus labour requirements on the waterfront. 
The situation has reached the point of insanity at this stage. In addition to payments made by the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority, $20m a year is being paid to finance idle time, that is, time not being worked by the waterside workers. Waterside workers throughout Australia work and average of 20 hours a week. We need to look not only at the allocation in the Budget to the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority but also to the deficit account of that body- it is $21m in the red- due to this build-up of idle time that is being paid to waterside workers who are working an average of 20 hours a week. The Minister has said in earlier statements that he expects the Government to withdraw from the financing of or involvement with the waterfront. If that happens that $21m deficit also will have to be financed out of the taxpayers' fund. 
A program was introduced following the release of the Woodward Inquiry report under which waterside workers were asked to leave their jobs on the waterfront voluntarily. This year 300 waterside workers have left their empolyment on the waterfront and it has cost the Australian taxpayer an average of $10,000 for each man who has left. The stage has been reached where it has been estimated conservativelythose estimates vary depending on whether one reads the report of the Waterside Workers Federation or of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority- that 1500 men are surplus to the industry. If redundancy contracts are maintained for those 1500 surplus waterside workers, it is expected that the taxpayers will be asked to pay between $15m and $20m simply to ask these workers to leave thenjobs. 
I do not deny that a waterside worker who may have worked a lifetime on the waterfront is entitled to some redundancy payment. But the taxpayer has every right to ask where his money is going; he is also entitled to ask why shipping rates are so high and what contributed to those shipping rates. It is important to point the bone not only at the Waterside Workers Federation and the waterside workers. I believe it was very significant that the Prices Justification Tribunal highlighted what has been happening in James Patrick and Company Limited, where $650,000 was paid as an annual payment to 5 directors in addition to all the company's normal salaries and other payments. 
As my colleague the honourable member for Franklin said, this is all adding to the cost of shipping freight rates. I was interested to read in today's  Australian Financial Review  the comments of the  President  of the Waterside Workers Federation,  Mr C.  H. Fitzgibbon, which were reported as follows: 
While the federation would hope that common sense and justice would prevail, we must prepare organisationally for the possibility that that will not be the position. 
As my colleague the honourable member for Denison said, the Waterside Workers Federation is planning a national strike which would have enormous connotations for the nation and its economy. I agree wholeheartedly with  Mr Fitzgibbon  when he says that common sense should prevail in this matter. I think the Australian people would believe that common sense would not dictate that a national strike at our ports would be the logical approach. I think common sense would indicate that the taxpayers would have grave reservations about being asked to pay between $40m and $45 m to ask surplus waterside workers, most of them would be over the age of 60 years, to leave their jobs. I wonder how many workers in other forms of employment- how many farmers who are finding difficulty in making ends meet at this stage- could expect the Government and the taxpayers to finance their difficult situations to that extent. 
I believe that if we are to get the economy moving again, the portfolio of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations will be crucial in either allowing this country and its economy to get moving again or in deciding whether the militants are to be given permission to prevail and to prevent that from happening. I believe that the way in which the Minister is conducting his portfolio and the confidence that he is engendering within the trade union movement, within industry generally and throughout the nation, will provide a climate for common sense to prevail in industrial relations and will allow the economy of this country to be put back on a common sense plane. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Is the Minister aware that the company ACTUSolo is able to buy petrol at a wholesale rate which ranges from 13c to 20c a gallon below that charged to other petrol resellers? Does the Minister agree that this practice creates unfair competition amongst petrol resellers? Can the Minister indicate when the Government will be making a decision on the recommendations made by the Royal Commission on Petroleum? 
I have sat quietly and listened with great interest to the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  It was a matter of some amazement to me that at no time during the honourable member's speech did he appear to place any importance on the needs and wishes of the rank and file in the trade union movement. All he talked about was how power could be manipulated by a few top officials within trade unions, how the balance of power could be swung from Left or Right. The honourable gentleman apparently does not attach any importance to what the ordinary working person in Australia wants and how his interests should best be represented by the trade union movement. I think that that point should be fundamental in this debate. We have had a period in Australia for some years where interest groups from one side or other of the political spectrum have used the trade union movement as nothing more than a power base from which they could peddle their political interests. It is high time that the trade union movement, honourable members opposite, and the Party they represent forgot about political ambition and started to think about the people of Australia and what the ordinary working people of Australia really want and the life style they want. 
Your turn will come, do not be impatient. In considering this Bill, we need to refer back, as the honourable member for Gellibrand said, to the amendments brought in under the Labor Administration. Those amendments allowed for the direct election of union officials by all of the rank and file members of a trade union. In theory, it sounds fine that the rank and file elect their federal secretary and their federal  president  and so on. But we need to give consideration to the rank and file members from the smaller, less populous States. 
If we think about the implications of the amendment brought in under the previous Administration, we will realise that we could well have a situation where a union membership was dominated by the larger States of New South Wales and Victoria and, because of the sheer weight of numbers, they could dominate the federal office bearers of a union without any consideration being given to the smaller States, to the members in those smaller States, or to the peculiar circumstances under which they might work in those States. Those smaller States would have no recourse whatever in either removing the federal office bearers or having any influence over the federal executive of a union. Obviously such a system is totally unworkable. In determining a climate in which trade unions should operate, in my opinion it is of paramount importance that we consider the needs of the trade unionist, the rank and file chap who works on the shop floor. We have to consider how his interests can best be represented and how the interests of workers in the various States can be properly represented. I do not believe that in this consideration any thought should be given at all to the power base of those people who have no better ambition in mind than to use trade unions for political purposes or simply to manipulate for power. 
The proposition that the Minister has put forward in this Bill is to allow a structure that will give adequate representation to the wishes of the rank and file unionist and that will also give adequate representation to the various States, in particular the smaller States. By having a onetier collegiate system of the type referred to by the honourable member for Gellibrand, State representatives would be elected by the rank and file people in those States and the representatives from those States would have the right and authority to elect their senior federal office bearers. In my opinion that would ensure that the smaller States, and in particular my State of Tasmania, would be given right and proper consideration. 
I find myself in some agreement with some of the comments made by the honourable member for Gellibrand. The honourable member referred to the actions of extremist groups within the political structure of Australia. In my opinion one of the most unfortunate things that has happened within the trade union movement and within the political structures of Australia is that extremist groups of both the Left and the Right have used whatever facilities have been available to them for nothing better than exerting power. I think it is high time, in looking at the political structures and the trade union structures of Australia, that we gave thought not to the extremists and activists but to the ordinary people. The ordinary trade unionist is not the least bit concerned with the political manoeuvrings of his trade union leader. Nor is he concerned with the extremist views that his trade union leader might hold either of the Left or of the Right. He is concerned only with going to work, earning a living and having a decent standard of living for his wife and family. He is concerned to hold his job. He is concerned that his family and children will have the same job opportunities that he has been able to enjoy. 
We have seen a period in which the extreme Left of the trade union movement and the political structure has been able to win positions of influence within certain trade unions. Through their various structures these people have taken control of the Executive of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, albeit their numbers are extremely small. They now wield an influence that bears no relationship at all to their numerical strength. As I see it, the unfortunate result of extremist actions of one side of the political spectrum is that inevitably these actions will influence the extremists of the other side to take reciprocal action. This is exactly what is happening now. The extremists of the Left- those associated with the Communist Party- have used the electoral system of the various trade unions to win positions of influence within those leaderships. This has now caused extremists of the right wing and in particular those who are associated with the National Civic Council, as was pointed out by the honourable member for Gellibrand, to try to use the electoral system of the trade union movement to win control of certain trade unions for the extreme right wing. 
I believe- and I believe this view is also held by the average worker- that unionists do not want a part of either the extreme Left or the extreme Right. They want moderate trade union leaders who have at heart the genuine interests of the worker and not the wielding of political power. In framing legislation of this type the Minister and the Government need to give consideration not to the political power mongering of trade union leaders but to the needs of the rank and file worker. I believe this can best be served where the workers, both individually and collectively are able to influence and in fact dictate to the union leadership rather than having the union leadership dictate to them. They need to be able to do this in a structure of democracy without fear of intimidation. I believe that this Bill, as framed by the Minister, does provide that framework within which the rank and file worker can exercise his democratic vote, where he can control his union and where the small States and workers from the small States are given an adequate representation without being dominated by the bulk of membership from the larger States. 
The Bill needs to be coupled with a greater awareness on the part of the rank and file unionist of the need to exercise not just theoretical control but physical control of his trade union. We need to do much more to influence a greater number of people to be actively involved in the activities of their unions. As the honourable member for Gellibrand pointed out in his speech, only 2000 union members out of a total membership of roughly 185 000 of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union voted at the last federal election for office bearers of that union. We cannot expect that democracy will reign in the trade union movement until we can encourage a greater number of people to participate in the activities of their trade union. I support this Bill. I believe that the proposals that the Minister has encompassed in it will play a great part in restoring democracy in the trade union movement of Australia. 
-As I said during my speech in the second reading debate, I support the Bill that the Government has introduced. I believe that the one-tier college system of electing office bearers to unions is the correct system to use; but I have grave reservations about the amendment moved by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  In this amendment he is introducing a provision that 15 per cent of office bearers- I underline the fact that they would be office bearers- within a particular college of unionists would be perpetuated in office even though they may have lost the support of their rank and file. I believe that that is a theory we need to question very seriously. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  was wrong in his assumption that anyone could be appointed to a college without first being elected by the rank and file members of the union. That is not the case. Everybody has to be appointed in the first place by the rank and file members of the union to represent a particular State at the college level. But, if this amendment passes through the Committee, it would be possible for a senior office bearer of a union to retain office within that union, although he had lost the support of the rank and file. I believe that that is not the sort of democracy which should be introduced into trade unions. I believe that the office bearers of a trade union should be elected and that the rank and file members of the union should have an influence on the office bearers of the union. Just as they have the right to appoint them, they should have the right to remove them. There should be no exclusions from that general rule. On that basis, I believe that we need to question seriously some of the provisions in this amendment. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I hope I can have the indulgence of the House to very briefly quote from a speech of mine last week. In speaking to the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill (No. 2) 1976 1 said: 
I believe- and I believe this view is also held by the average worker- that unionists do not want a part of either the extreme Left or the extreme Right. They want moderate trade union leaders who have at heart the genuine interests of the worker and not the wielding of political power. 
For making those comments I was accused by the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  of union bashing. I am not sure what the honourable member for Burke interprets as union bashing but I well remember a few weeks ago reading an article written in the  Australian Financial Review  under the nom de plume of 'Modest member of Parliament'. He stated that anyone who dares to criticise the union leadership in Australia must inevitably be branded a union basher. I think that this was borne out by the comments of the honourable member for Burke in branding me a union basher for simply saying that the rank and file trade unionists of Australia in fact want to be led by moderate trade union leaders who have their genuine interests at heart. While I must admit to being somewhat peeved by the comments of the honourable member for Burke, I was heartened to some degree when I read the  Australian  this morning and noted the remarks of one of the most formidable and noted trade union leaders in Australia,  Sir John  Egerton.  Sir John  Egerton had this to say on this question: 
Unions have been let run wild and the situation is now where they are dictating not just industrial policy but foreign policy, defence policy and a whole host of other things that are not properly within the concept of bona fide trade unionism. 
Further on  Sir John  said: 
I am very much opposed to the blatant political actions that some unions are involving their members in and to the detriment of the members. 
I am relieved that  Sir John  adopts the same attitude as I to the actions of the trade union leaders in involving themselves in blatant political actions that are, in fact, to the detriment of the trade union movement and to the detriment of the trade union rank and file member. I was also interested during the debate last week on the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill in the comments of the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes).  The honourable member said during his speech at the Committee stage of the Bill: 
Honourable members Opposite are so inclined to talk about unions but not one of them has ever been a member of a union. 
In point of fact the honourable member has not done his homework. I point out that for many years I was a member of a trade union. In fact, I was a member of the Australian Workers Union for 8 years and I was a member of the Printing and Kindred Industries Union for a further 3 years. During the period that I was a member of the AWU I worked as a shearer and a casual farm labourer. 
I was a good one. I went on further when I was a member of the PKIU to work as a shift operator in a paper factory. Perhaps honourable members opposite wonder why a person who came from such a lowly background might choose to join the Liberal Party of Australia. The reasons I chose to join the Liberal Party was that I worked with those people- the ordinary workers of Australia- who are the very basis of this country. I know what they want, not what the trade union leaders think they want but in fact they do not want I know because I have worked with them. That is the reason. I have gained an intimate knowledge of those people on the shop floor. I believe that it is the Liberal Party which can best represent the ordinary rank and file trade union member in Australia, not these people who abuse their role in the trade unions for blatant political reasons. 
-Does the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations consider the major industrial dispute involving large wage claims on John Fairfax and Sons Ltd to have any significance in relation to the current national wage case? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. In view of the growing discontent amongst petrol resellers in various parts of the country at the effect of wholesale price discrimination, particularly in favour of ACTU-Solo, can the Minister give any indication as to when the Government will announce its decision on the recommendations of the Royal Commission on Petroleum? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Will the recent sale of meat to Russia produce any benefit for the meat industry in Tasmania? Can the Minister indicate when the quota entitlement arrangements for the 1977 meat export season will be finalised? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. Have representations been made by Tasmanian members to the Minister for the upgrading and improvement of air freight services between Tasmania and the mainland States? Will the Minister inform the House whether any developments have been made in this regard? 
-I find it unnecessary to make any comment about the speech just made by the honourable member for 
Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  The track record of his Party in government shows that it is totally lacking in any expertise in economic matters. For him to come here and piously tell the Government where it is going wrong is, I think, worthy only of contempt. The Government of course is prepared to speak to individuals and groups in the community which have a contribution to make on economic matters. In view of their rather deplorable track record in these matters, I find it impossible to give credence to comments which are made by members of the Opposition. 
I am proud to support the motion moved by the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom)  proposing the Address-In-Reply to  Her  Majesty's Speech in opening this Parliament. Some of the things that  Her  Majesty said to us in her opening Speech are, I believe, worthy of reconsideration in this debate. I am quite pleased to highlight some of her remarks and to elaborate on them. During that Speech  Her  Majesty said that:  . . Australia as a nation depends on creating the conditions which foster the strength, independence and creativity of its people. 
I think that this is something that the honourable member for Blaxland and his colleagues should take to heart. They obviously are of the opinion that economic matters can be played like a harp string or by juggling the load from one side to the other. We must remember the words of  Her  Majesty about economic conditions which foster the strength, independence and creativity of the people. We should get away from the idea that the cake is so big that all we have to do is to serve varying sized portions. This country and its economy will prosper only when the people of Australia are prepared to work hard for that prosperity. This seems to be what honourable members opposite do not understand. 
At the moment we have an economic crisis which we inherited from our predecessor. This Government has been working strenuously to overcome the problems in the inflation, unemployment and other economic fields. Our problems are not just those which can be titled in economic terms, the problems extend further. They become a social problem. That social problem is one of a welfare society. Australia and the people of Australia are becoming more dependent on what they can be given rather than on what they can earn. If this attitude is pervading the minds of people in the work force we can no longer look to prosperity because society will prosper only on the strength of its own hard work. We have heard a lot of comment in this place, in the public media and in debates throughout the community about the unemployment problem. The problem is not confined just to those who are registered as unemployed with the Commonwealth Employment Service or to those who are receiving unemployment benefit. It extends to those who are currently on the payroll, those who are working in industries and factories throughout Australia, who are not prepared to give their job their best endeavours. Until we, as a country, are prepared to work harder and to put more effort into our jobs without demanding additional holidays and extra pay, we will not survive. We will pass on a sorry state of affairs to our children and to future generations. This was brought out by  Her  Majesty when she said: 
The prosperity of the Australian people depends on the strength of its productive private sector, on its manufacturing, mining and rural industries. 
I agree with that statement. The strength of this country is in the strength of its people and their determination to work hard and to realise this country's potential. It seems that groups in the community and a growing number of people throughout the Australian nation are saying to the Government: 'We are not satisfied with the present economic conditions. We want you to do something about them'. That is getting back to the welfare society to which I referred earlier. We, as a government, industries throughout the country and individuals in the society must realise that this problem is not residing only in Canberra, that governments cannot wave a magic wand and solve all these problems for the community. The problem is one that pervades the country. It touches every individual in the community. All of us have a responsibility. A farmer cannot look for more return from his product and at the same time be prepared to screw his employees for a lesser wage. A wage earner cannot look for a higher wage from his industry and at the same time be prepared to go on strike, which would increase the cost of production. The problem is one that extends to everyone. If the people of this country, if governments and if unions and all the other social groups in the community want economic recovery, each has a responsibility to work for that objective. 
I am addressing my remarks not so much to the economic problems in the community but to the social problems in the community.  Her  Majesty said: 
With the growth over the years of the power of public and private bureaucracies, particular care needs to be taken to protect individual liberties and human rights against unwarranted intrusions. 
This, in my opinion, is one of the greatest social problems that this country faces. I believe that many thousands of Australians who are prepared to work hard and who want to accept the rewards of their hard work, their labours and their endeavours are constantly retarded in their ambitions by a bureaucracy that constantly weighs on their every endeavour. We have heard in this place and in public debate about the impinging of government bureaucracy on the rights of individuals. This does not end with government bureaucracy. I find little difference between the bureaucracies that are contained in large companies and the bureaucracies that are contained in unions. All of these bureaucracies impinge on private individuals. They retard growth. They retard ambition. I believe that all of them should be viewed with disdain. 
This brings me to the real point. What are the social problems in the community? The problem of bureaucracies is one thing. Their inherent power is another. The problem that Australia is facing is, I believe, the result of a bartering that is being conducted by the big three in Australiabig government, big business and big unions. That assumes that the private individual, the person in society is irrelevant and is nothing more than a small cog in a very big wheel who can be used to suit the ambitions and the purposes of whichever power body has the upper hand at a particular point. We must get back to a situation, as  Her  Majesty said, in which Australia as a nation depends on creating the conditions which foster the strength, independence and creativity of its people. That will not happen while the bureaucracies of government, business or unions constantly try to use people to do nothing more than extend their power game.  Her  Majesty reflected the attitude of this Government when she said: 
My Government is acting also to protect and expand political rights and strengthen the responsibility and responsiveness of governments to their citizens . . . 
Steps have been taken to reverse the trend towards the concentration of power in the hands of the Commonwealth Government. 
This Government is conscious of the encroaching bureaucracy and of the power that the bureaucracy has to impinge on personal rights and freedom. In its various policies such as federalism and other policies it is consciously and conscientiously attempting to reverse that trend which became evident under the Labor Government. It attempted to concentrate all powers in the Government which sits on the shores of Lake Burley Griffin. People in our small State of Tasmania are all too conscious of how power was concentrated under that Government. We strenuously press the Government to reverse that trend. I am quite sure that, in the words of the Queen, the Government has taken note of this and is acting to reverse that most unjustified trend. 
The problem does not stop with big government. It also goes into big business. I refer to some actions of large companies such as multinational corporations, particularly those which are headquartered outside Australia. I believe that the Australian people should be conscious of them and actively lobbying governments to reverse these actions because big business is equally as obnoxious as large government bureaucracies. A typical example of what is happening in big business as it impinges itself and attempts to obliterate small business is typified in the oil industry. As we know, most of the oil industry is monopolised by large international corporations with the retail outlets being conducted by private businessmen in a rather restricted capacity, usually under lease to one of the larger corporations. At the moment moves are being made, I believe most insidiously, by some of those large corporations to restrict the rights of individual businessmen- in fact I believe eventually to force them out of business- so that the oil industry and the retailing industry of petroleum products will become totally monopolised by a very few large companies. 
I have a letter from a retail seller in Sydney who has outlined the problem that he is facing in relation to the corporation to which he is under lease. He says that his lease is now up for review and that the company has put it to him that he should in fact accept a commission of $16,000 flat per year. He says: 
In signing this lease I relinquish all my access to profit on petrol together with the fact that I am obliged by this lease to accept- 
all stock losses 
all bad debts and dishonoured cheques 
all cash shortages 
to carry the book debts . . . 
So in other words he is being paid a flat salary but has to take all the losses. I wonder what he would end up with under such an arrangement? If this policy is continued there is no doubt that eventually we would see only the slot type machine retail petrol outlets and the service station as we know it would be completely gone and dominance would be given to the multinationals. But that is not all. He has a choice. In his letter he states: 
But the alternative lease is worse insomuch that instead of the old style lease of paying l.Sc a gallon purchased- they now say to me that based on last year's gallonage, 49 000 gallons per month I will have to pay rent on this amount; my gallons have now at the present moment dropped to 29 000 gallons per month, due to other discounters in the area around me and with . . . 
He mentions a certain petroleum company- selling at 63.2c per gallon and me selling at the correct retail price, 77.3c per gallon . . . 
As the honourable member says, one does not have to think too hard about what company that is. This is what is going on in the petroleum industry. We find that one of the main offenders in this insidious move to have monopoly situations imposed on petrol resellers and on the oil industry is a gentleman very well known to this House and much mentioned, namely,  Mr Hawke,  the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. It is his organisation of ACTU-Solo which in fact has led the move against the genuine retail seller. What is he trying to do? Is he trying to establish a situation in Australia where our petroleum and fuel and energy resources are dominated by a few large companies which are headquartered outside Australia in America and England. Is this what  Mr Hawke  wants? I believe it is what very few Australians want. 
I would remind the honourable member for Corio that we also have big unions. We certainly have heard plenty about the big unions in this place. 
The Queen mentioned in her opening address that the Government has certain legislation in hand to correct the monopolising power of big unions and the way they are able to extend and impinge upon the rights and freedoms of their members. As the honourable gentleman opposite would know, certain amendments are proposed to the trade practices legislation. I believe that these amendments will do no more than bring the trade unions under the control of law. At the moment they choose to, and can in fact, be exempt from the provisions of law. We are conscious of the fact that trade unions are up in arms about this move. Why is that? They want to perpetuate a system where they are not responsive to the law. What is wrong with having one group in society equally as responsible under law as every other group? 
The other provision that the Government proposes to introduce is, as  Her  Majesty mentioned, the establishment of the industrial relations bureau. Why are the trade unions so frightened of the industrial relations bureau? Is it that they do not want their activities to be investigated? Is it that they do not want their members to know how to go about correcting the monopolising power of their union leaders? Is it because the union leaders themselves want to maintain a situation where they can manipulate their members for their own political ambitions and they see in the industrial relations bureau some challenge to that monopolising power? I think the provisions that the Government is planning to introduce in this session of Parliament will do no more in their totality than allow the individual in society to have rights and freedoms that I believe every Australian citizen has the right to expect. 
It was Abraham Lincoln who said that government should be of the people, for the people and by the people. Under this Liberal Government we are seeing this very meritorious statement of Lincoln's being brought into effect in this country. The Government s first objective is to have a totally integrated society without people having some undue advantage over other sections of society. 
What we have to do, contrary perhaps to what the honourable member for Corio might believe, is to break down the monopolising power of big government, big business and big unions. If that means in the process that people like  Mr Hawke  have to have their wings clipped, I believe this will be in the best long term interest of this country and the people of Australia. 
I feel compelled to make some reference to the speech made earlier in this debate by the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris).  During the debate he implied that a number of Tasmanian members were not present in the chamber at the time. I remind him that four of the five Tasmanian members will be taking part in this debate this afternoon. I think it is also worth while reflecting that during the debate on the Stabilization Bill in 1975, when we had a Labor Government and 5 Labor members  horn  Tasmania, not one Tasmanian member chose to speak in favour of the apple and pear industry in Tasmania. The honourable member knows quite well that the present Tasmanian members have lobbied very strongly in support of the apple and pear industry in Tasmania. We have used every mechanism available to us to get the best possible deal for our growers and our constituents. Albeit that we have presented the best possible case we can for our industry, we are prepared to accept the collective decision of the Government and our colleagues. Albeit that we are faced with that situation, I remind the honourable gentleman that we are still prepared to come into this chamber and take part in the debate, which the honourable member's colleagues in 1975 were not prepared to do. 
Not one of them, as my honourable friend from Denison says. As a group of Tasmanian Liberals, we have strongly represented the fruit growing industry. The honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  has spoken on many occasions in this House in support of his growers in the Huon Valley. He has spoken in emotional terms. He has presented the case on their behalf to the best of his ability and he has done it for the best of motives. But the amendment moved by the Opposition does nothing more than try to use the plight of the fruit industry throughout Australia for cheap political gain. Honourable members opposite, in particular the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  are to be deplored for using such heartless tactics. It is my assessment that the amendment moved by the honourable member for Blaxland is nothing more than a blatant exercise in political hypocrisy. It is one of the worst exercises in political hypocrisy that I have had the misfortune to witness. 
I point out to the honourable member for Shortland why the amendment moved by the honourable member for Blaxland is so hypocritical. The honourable member for Blaxland in moving the amendment yesterday said: 
The Opposition supports the broad spirit of this legislation but regard it as being inadequate. 
We have to look at that statement and compare it with the statements he made on the Apple and Pear Stabilization Bill last year. The same honourable member for Blaxland had this to say: ... a scheme like the current one which is production orientated gives the larger grower a larger proportion of the funds available and the smaller grower receives only a small amount of the funds available which, in many cases, just becomes a form of welfare assistance rather than viable support - 
If they were the views of the honourable member for Blaxland last year, and we were talking in that debate about giving $2 a case support to the fruit industry, why has he seen fit to change his views and increase the support to $3? Is it because the honourable member for Blaxland wants to do no more than give the lion's share of that serve to the big growers? Is that what the Australian Labor Party is proposing? It would certainly be contrary to all the claims that honourable members opposite have made in past debates in this House. I think we need also to look at another quote. As the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  pointed out, in summing up the debate last year the honourable member for Blaxland had this to say: 
The Opposition . . . calls upon the Government to consider sympathetically the plight of small growers - 
I heartily agree with him on that- in their endeavours to extricate themselves from a declining market situation, particularly in Tasmania and Western Australia, and not to string out their misery with the extension of this scheme when they ought to be moving rapidly into the stabilisation process. 
That is what the honourable member for Blaxland said last year, and this year he comes into the chamber in this debate trying to do no more than use the plight of the fruit growers to gain some cheap political capital and trying to embarrass the Tasmanian members and in particular the honourable member for Franklin in his endeavours to put forward the case of behalf of his constituent fruit growers. 
Also I think that we need to give some consideration to the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission and to what the Labor Party has had to say about those recommendations. I am sure that all of us in this chamber are aware that the IAC recommended that the subsidy for fruit by phased out over 2 years, that the subsidy should be $1 for this year and following that there should be no subsidy at all. In the Senate, in the same debate last year, the Labor Party's official spokeman on primary industry,  Senator Gietzelt,  said: 
Its report recommended, subject to the acceptance of certain reconstruction schemes, the continuation of the current produce-based scheme on an interim 2-year basis, that is, for the 1976 and 1977 crops. So, in the light of that, we support the legislation, However, that support is not unequivocal and is not without some basis of criticism - 
I remind the honourable member for Blaxland that his Party spokesman on primary industry went on to say: 
I believe that the Government can be criticised for sitting on the IAC report for 3 months and then not promoting discussion on it in the community, in the industry or in the Parliament, or not in strict terms acting on it as it was recommended to do - 
So here last year we had the Australian Labor Party's spokeman for primary industry recommending to the Parliament that the Government should reduce the subsidy back to $1 for the 1977 fruit season and this year, for cheap political reasons, honourable members opposite are prepared to undermine the honourable member for Franklin by suggesting that it should be $3. They are doing it only for cheap political reasons and they should be deplored for doing so. 
In earlier debates I have stated my attitude on these matters. I strongly support the fruit industry, but I believe that support for the fruit industry and support for other industries does not rest wholly and solely with the Government. In a debate in this chamber on 10 March this year I said: 
Our problems are not just those which can be titled in economic terms, the problems extend further. They become a social problem. That social problem is one of a welfare society. Australia and the people of Australia are becoming more dependent on what they can be given rather than on what they can earn. 
I and other honourable members from Tasmania are the strongest advocates of the fruit industry in Tasmania, but I do not believe that the sole responsibility for restructuring that industry rests with the Government. The Government is not the fount of all knowledge and wisdom. It can provide only an economic climate in which industries can prosper and survive in their own right. I believe that the industry has a very clear responsibility in this matter to come to the Government and show quite clearly that it can survive in its own right, that it is not simply seeking an endless handout from the Government. I do not believe that to this stage the industry has done that. There has been no clear indication from the industry that it is able to produce any document or any plan that would show that in the long term it will be able to stand on its own two feet without some form of taxpayers' support. The industry should take this matter on board and go back to the drawing board so that it can come to the Government with firm proposals that will put it in a viable economic situation in the long term. 
In that context I believe that the industry has to look at a number of options that are available within the existing schemes established by this Government. I remind honourable members opposite that this Government initiated those schemes. They have been made available to the rural industry in Tasmania, and the fruit industry can take them on board. Firstly, we have a debt reconstruction scheme to assist farmers with sound prospects of long term viability but who have used all their cash and credit resources and cannot meet their financial commitments. We have a farm build-up scheme to assist the farmer whose farm is too small to be economic. We have a farm improvement scheme to assist the restoration of an uneconomic property to economic viability. We have a rehabilitation scheme to provide limited assistance to farmers obliged to leave the industry. We have a carry on assistance scheme to provide essential carry on advances in rural industries. We have a household support scheme to provide assistance to up to one year to non-viable farmers who cannot meet living expenses. 
I am one of the strongest supporters of the fruit industry. I believe that the industry plays a most important role in the total society of Australia. We have to look sympathetically at its problems and give whatever assistance is available to us. But the industry has a clear and unequivocal responsibility to put firm proposals to the Government that will show that it can help itself out of its problems. I deplore the Opposition's use of tactics in this debate in relation to this industry which is facing such hardship and severe financial difficulties. The Opposition's proposals are designed to do no more than pull a veil over the industry's eyes and to try to use that situation for very cheap political gain. 
Is the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware of the serious disruption to communication between Tasmania and the mainland caused by the strike by aircraft refuellers? Will the Minister inform the House of the full effect of the strike by aircraft refuellers and tanker drivers employed by oil companies? 
-We are debating a matter of public importance which ostensibly is all about a national conference that someone outside the Parliament has called. I believe that this issue goes much further than a national conference. What we are really debating is who the hell is governing this country and who is the Opposition here in this Parliament. We have had a properly held Premiers' Conference at which the heads of government of this country for once have agreed on a proposal. I believe it was unique that such a meeting should reach bipartisan agreement among all heads of government, that the parties at the Conference representing all political persuasions could come together and for once in their lives agree on one thing. Even the leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  gave tentative assurance that he would support the same proposals as agreed to by the heads of government. 
But who has undermined the agreement reached between the heads of government. It was someone who is not part of this parliamentary process, someone who is not elected by the Australian people. It was  Mr Hawke,  the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. The real issue is: Who is governing this country? Part of the agreement reached at the Premiers' Conference was as follows: 
The Heads of the Commonwealth and all State Governments, meeting in Premiers' Conference in Canberra today, unanimously called for a three month halt in price and wage increases. They agreed that such restraint was urgently needed if Australia is to overcome its current economic problems. 
That was the agreement to which all 7 heads of government agreed. But one man in the person of  Mr Hawke  says: 'No, we do not want good government in this country; we do not want economic recovery; that is no good for our political intentions. No, we are going to undermine all of this bipartisan approach. ' 
As my colleague says, he has white-anted it. He is white-anting not only this Government but also the people of Australia because I believe that this agreement had the overwhelming support of the people of this country. Certainly the comment that I have had coming back to me as a member of this Parliament has been that the proposal is a good thing; it is good to see governments of all political persuasions coming together and agreeing that there should be a united approach to the economic difficulties in Australia. If there has been criticism it has been to the effect that 3 months is not a long enough period in which to make the proposal work. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has been quite responsible. He agreed at the Premiers' Conference to contact business leaders and trade unions throughout Australia and to report back to the Premiers as to what happened. I would like to read to the House the reply that the Prime Minister sent to the Premiers as a result of those approaches. It stated: ... I must report that these representatives indicated their unwillingness - 
He was speaking about trade union representatives on this occasion- to proceed without a national conference and a subsequent conference of trade unions and seek their agreement to a national conference on this matter. I indicated that I was prepared to do so if peak council representatives were prepared to support in principle the objectives of the heads of government agreement even if only on a personal basis. This was no more than was indicated by one peak council - which my colleagues on the opposite side forget- in yesterday's proceedings in the Commission. Other peak council representatives were not prepared to support even in principle and for this reason I decided that such a national conference would be futile. 
Of course it is futile if they will not even agree to a talk on principles, let alone detail. The Prime Minister received the unanimous support of 78 different organisations throughout this country to the proposal that there should be a national price and wage freeze. I seek leave to have a list of the organisations which have given support to the Prime Minister incorporated in  Hansard. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="105131197704260_24_0.jpg"></graphic>

AGRICULTURAL/PASTORAL ORGANISATIONS 
D. Urquhart, President, National Council of Wool Selling Brokers, Telex 14 April. Strong support. 
A. Webster, Chairman, Australian Dairy Corporation, Telex, IS April. 
Will endeavour to contribute towards wage and price restraint for next three months. 
*Col. M. H. McArthur, O.B.E., Chairman, Australian Meat Board, Telex, 1 8 April. 
Fully supports concept of a pause. 
G. Leckie, Chairman, Australian Apple and Pear Corporation, Telegram, 15 April. Will co-operate where possible. 
A. S. Norquay, Secretary, Australian Farmers' Federation, Letter, 15 April 
Public statement by President calling for a response of cooperation. 
Michael Shanahan, President, United Farmers, Telegram, 15 April. 
Advises support of the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation. 
John Bennett, President, Australian Dairy Farmer's Federation, Telegram, 18 April. 
Supports any action which would improve economic position of Dairy Farmers. 
Don Von Bibra, Chairman, Australian Wool Industry Conference, Telex, 18 April. 
Support on behalf of all woolgrowers. 
-I thank the Opposition. But what do we find despite all of the support behind the Prime Minister and the Premiers as a result of the Premiers ' Conference? We find that the trade union movement does not even want to talk about a wage-price freeze. What is it that the trade unions are after? Why do they not want to talk about a price-wage freeze. If all the heads of government throughout Australia can agree that such a proposal is necessary to bring about economic recovery why do the trade unions not want to talk about it? I think it is significant to recall some of the decisions taken at the December meeting of the ACTU executive. One of the decisions taken was as follows: 
If the Commission fails to make indexation meaningful the trade union movement will then be forced to make claims upon individual employers and as was said in August 1976, to examine whether there is any further point in continuing to participate in such proceedings. 
I believe this is getting closer to the core of what the trade union movement wants. For a start it does not want wage indexation. It does not want to be tied down to legal guidelines that will prevent it from exerting its political muscle over all the people of Australia 
What is happening right now? Two things are happening. First, we have a most disastrous strike in support of decisions taken by the ACTU. That organisation makes the claim that it wants to come to a national conference and talk. That is all hot air. What is it doing in practice? In Victoria we find that just about every motor vehicle is tied up because there is no petrol. Why is this so? It is because the Transport Workers Union wants an increase of $5.70 to make up for increases that the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, in its wisdom, decided would not be granted to some workers. But the TWU says: 'No. We are not prepared to accept the decisions of a properly authorised court. We will go outside that. We will go back to the law of the jungle. We will use our industrial muscle and we will show the people of Australia who is really boss.' What is happening in Victoria at the moment is anarchy- the law of the jungle. Health and emergency services are tied up. Doctors cannot obtain petrol to enable them to attend to desperately ill patients. 
These are the measures to which those people are prepared to go, not because they want to go to a national conference but because they want to use their industrial muscle to force this Government into complete submission. They believe that they have some divine right to be able to tell the Australian people what it is they should or should not have without having the responsibility of going to the polls every 3 years as a democratically elected government must do. 
This is what the trade unions are aU about. They do not want the wage indexation guidelines. They do not want to be restrained by courts of law. I believe that the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr WilliS)  really let the cat out of the bag during his speech when he made reference to the Opposition's stand on the Industrial Relations Bureau and the amendments to the Trade Practices Act. That is what the trade unions do not want, and it is what honourable members opposite do not want. They are not concerned about a national conference to talk about the economy, wages and prices. What they object to is being forced, by legislation, to be as responsive to the law as every other section in society. I put it to the honourable member for Gellibrand: Why do the trade unions not want to respond to the law? Why do they want to be outside the law? Are they trying to set themselves up as some sort of dictatorship in this country? 
I challenge the honourable member to answer those questions because I believe that if this country is to realise its potential and the standard of living that it promises to this generation and to succeeding generations, the only way that we can accomplish those things is by having everyone in this country pulling together in the one direction. 1 believe that the Prime Minister and the Premiers at the recent Premiers Conference showed statesmanship that we have not seen in this country for a long time. It was one occasion that proved to the people of Australia that party politics can be put behind them if it means that Australia will be a better country. Quite obviously,  Mr Hawke,  and the Australian Council of Trade Unions are not prepared to do that. They do not have any interest in the people of Australia or in economic recovery and they are prepared to undermine any elected government as long as it suits their own political persuasion. 
Can the Minister for Transport indicate when the south bound freight equalisation scheme for Tasmania will be introduced? Will the schedule of products qualifying for assistance under that scheme include fruit and vegetables shipped to Tasmania from the mainland? 
-Is the Minister for Health aware of speculation in the community that the Government may withdraw subsidies to private health insurers? Can the Minister inform the House whether there is any truth in this speculation? 
I will adhere to your earlier suggestion that we be brief,  Mr Chairman,  but I should like to put on record the fact that the provisions the Minister is now removing from the Bill I believe to be one of the fundamental parts of the Bill and one of those sections which the general public is awaiting most eagerly. I acknowledge that the Minister said in his public statement that these provisions will be considered again in the Budget session, and I strongly urge the Minister and the Government to be conscientious in the way that they bring them in during the Budget session. While I am on my feet, I should like to say to the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  that he acknowledges that one of the fundamental rights in our community today is the protection of the individual, and I am sure he will agree with me that one of the fundamentals of our democratic system is the right of free choice. If that right of free choice is taken away there must be a breakdown in democracy. One of the basic things that the Government is trying to do is to give protection to the individual to make a free choice and to ensure that once the individual has made that free choice he is given protection against intimidation, whether that intimidation be directed to him by his trade union or by his employer. That is the basis of these provisions and I am sure it is the basic intention of the Government. The provisions are not designed in any way to be a stick with which to beat the unions over the head. The provisions are evenhanded. They provide for the same basis to be applicable to either the employer or the trade union, but they are designed essentially to give protection to the individual. I am quite sure that the. honourable member for Burke and the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  would agree that if they talked to the rank and file of the trade union movement they would find that the rank and file are seeking desperately to have that sort of provision incorporated into legislation so that their right to choose whether they will join or not join an organisation is enshrined in legislation and they are protected against powerful monopoly organisations. 
I was interested in some of the comments made by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp),  who has just resumed his seat. Some of the points he made I agree with, but some I disagree with quite strongly. He said in the early part of his speech that he wondered why the Labor Party members were not prepared to join with other members on a bilateral basis in an attempt to solve some of the industrial problems we have at the moment. I join with him in wondering that. Why is it that we have a situation in which a few militant trade unionists are prepared to rape this country of its economic future; yet honourable members on the opposite side of this chamber are prepared to give them credence and to back them up every inch of the way? 
I support the honourable member for Hotham in saying that it is about time honourable members on the opposite side of this chamber came to grips with the situation they face and decided whether they are going to represent the people of Australia or are going to be lackeys to the communist-led unions. This is what members of the Labor Party have to determine. I think this is what the Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Bill will draw from the Labor members: Just whom do they serve- Australia or those militant trade unionists? 
He will not speak while I am saying those sorts of things, because he knows that they are true. Another thing the honourable member for Hotham said in his speech was that he could not understand the urgency of this Bill. I remind him that only today the members of the postal unions at the Redfern Mail Exchange voted to continue their ban indefinitely, whilst the members of the same unions in Hobart and Melbourne voted for a 7-day cooling off period. If that is the sort of unity to which the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  referred, I fail to accept that there is unity within those unions. There is obvious division. People are trying to stir up this section of the unions in order to pursue their own political ambitions. 
I believe that it is high time the Government brought in legislation that will protect the public interest. I think the people of Australia will say: At last we have a government with enough guts to do what the people have been wanting a government to do for quite a number of years'. This is one of the things on which this Government and the parties that constitute it went to the electors at the last general election campaign. We promised the people that we would protect them from these unreasonably militant trade unionists in their greedy demands. That is what this Bill is designed to do. 
-I am pleased that the honourable member for Melbourne agrees with my assertion. We in Tasmania are probably more conscious of the effect of what a few militant trade unionists can do and of how a State can be isolated by them than are some of the honourable members from mainland States. We have had the seemingly unending experience of a few people within selected trade unions being able to isolate Tasmania completely with disruptions in transport and communications between our State and the mainland. I well recall, during the air traffic controllers strike in May, a number of people phoning my office and saying: 'For once in my life I am scared. I am scared because in this State our essential services come from the mainland and there is no way that we can communicate and obtain those essential services'. That is the situation we face in Tasmania. 
It gives me pleasure to highlight again to honourable members opposite some of the things that took place in May. I can assure them that the people of Tasmania remember that strike by the air traffic controllers and others that have disrupted communications with Tasmania. I can assure the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  that they will remember them when the next election is held too. What are some of the comments that have been made about that air traffic controllers strike? The editorial in the  Australian  of 9 May 1 977 stated: 
The air traffic controllers' strike is irresponsible, enormously damaging- and a perfect example of the root cause of our economic troubles: self-centredness to the extent that many Australians have become so inward looking that they can see eye-to-eye only with themselves. Until we can come to grips with this national I'm-all-right-Jack syndrome, we have no hope of curing our social and financial illnesses. 
Debate interrupted. 
Before the dinner break I was commenting on some of the disruptions that had been caused to our community by the militant minority section of the air traffic controllers. During his speech the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  mentioned that all sections of society have both rights and responsinilities The air traffic controllers' strike, and perhaps the mail strike at the Redfern exchange, are illustrations of the way in which a minority section within the trade union movement is prepared to demand its rights within society, while failing to respond to its responsibilities to the rest of the people in the community. That point was made graphically in an editorial in the  Sunday Telegraph  on 8 May this year dealing with the air traffic controllers' strike. The article stated: 
Air traffic controllers, by the nature of their work, are in a powerful position. But today they are wielding that power without any sense of responsibility towards their fellow Australians. 
In short, they are being greedy. Not only do they want a 36 per cent pay increase- a senior controller already earns $ 1 6,500 a year- but they want to set their own rules. 
That is the situation we have at the moment in industrial relations in this country. A militant minority within the trade union movement is trying to set its own rules. In the case of the air traffic controllers, the matter had been to the Public Service Arbitrator but they were not prepared to accept the umpire's ruling. They were prepared to inconvenience all of Australia because they were greedy and wanted more. Not only did they inconvenience people in Tasmania and isolate those people in the island State, but they left Australian citizens stranded all over the world. In fact, some 5 000 people in other parts of the world simply could not get home. That fact was pointed out in an article in the Sydney  Sun  which said that Australian citizens in other parts of the world were absolutely destitute because they had run out of money and could not get home because people here in Australia- a militant minority- were too jolly greedy. 
-As the honourable member for Braddon says, it was disgraceful. I believe that there is a fundamental question which must be asked not just by honourable members in this Parliament but by the people of Australia. Are we as Australian citizens prepared to bow to the overbearing demands of a militant minority in the trade union movement? In my opinion, it is high dme that Australia, this Government and the people of this country stood up to the trade unions and said: 'We are not prepared to tolerate any more. You are part of this community and you will accept your responsibilities in the way that the Austraiian public demands.' Too often we hear, particularly from honourable members opposite, that because we stand up and say that the militant unions are nothing more than industrial gangsters we are union bashing. I ask the question: Who is trying to bash Australia? It is these same trade unionists, who are too greedy, and because they know that they are in a powerful position they want to grind the last cent out of the community, regardless of the consequences. 
I pose this fundamental question to honourable members opposite and to the House: Do we. have essential services in this country which must * be maintained? Do we have postal services, telephone services, communications and transport services which must be maintained? I believe that those public services are essential to the proper maintenance and order of this country. If we allow a militant minority of greedy trade unionists to get jobs in a mail exchange or as air traffic controllers or in some other essential area and simply hold Australia to ransom, then I believe that this country is headed for chaos. I am not prepared to accept that. The Government is not prepared to accept it, and that is the reason why the Government sees this Bill as a matter of urgency. It is time that not only governments but all the people of Austrafia who have a sense of responsibility, who want to establish a solid and sound economic base, not just for this generation but for our children and our grandchildren, stood up to this militant minority and said: 'We have had enough. We are not going to tolerate you any more. We are going to build Australia as we want it built'. 
I compliment the Minister upon bringing this Bill into the House. I urge all honourable members in this place who have a responsibility to Australia and want to see Australia developed in the way that most Australians want, without being subjected to this - 
This blackmail, as the honourable member for La Trobe says, by these trade unionists- I urge them to support the Government in what it is doing in this Bill, and put these militant ratbags, these militant gangsters among the trade unionists, back in the place where Australia demands that they should be. 
-We have just seen an exercise in academic rhetoric from the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  and the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  They have used all sorts of academic terms to tell us why the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has adopted the point of view it has or why there has been an increase in the level of unemployment or why there has not been the economic recovery for which the people of Australia have been hoping. I suggest to honourable gentlemen opposite that these things are happening perhaps not because of the rhetoric that they can read in text books but because of factors that are far more practically based. They need to look at the practicalities of a situation that is causing the inherent problems we have in Australia. 
We realise that 75 per cent of employment in Australia is in the private field. Private employers can stay in business only while they make money. They can employ people only while they make money. If we take away profits from private employers they will neither stay in business nor employ employees. That is a basic principle. I think that the honourable member for Gellibrand might have difficulty in reading that sort of thinking in some of his text books. Perhaps he should go out into the work place. He should come with me into the factories and talk with employers. He should talk with people at the work face. If he does so he will be convinced about what I am saying. I think the Commission recognised some of these factors but perhaps it was not in a position to spell them out as clearly as we can do in this Parliament. The Commission in its national wage case judgment stated: 
The Commission has tried to operate a set of wage principles in a difficult industrial and economic climate, and from the chaos of 1973-74, to bring order and restraint to wage fixing as an essential ingredient for economic recovery. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand and the honourable member for Melbourne Ports both failed to get to the nitty gritty part of that judgment. The Commission links wage policy and industrial climate with economic recovery. I think we cannot lose sight of that fact. What else did the Commission say in its judgment, if we follow its trend of thinking? Speaking about the indexation guidelines it said: . . . there has been substantial compliance. 
We have heard this from honourable gentlemen opposite. The Commission also stated: 
This conclusion has been made the more difficult by certain unions openly stating that they are seeking to destroy the package and taking action in an attempt to bring this about. 
Here is the critical factor affecting our economic recovery, not action which is being taken by this Government which is dedicated in its intention to bring about economic recovery and full employment in this country. I am sure that all honourable members on this side and the other side of the House will agree that if we are to achieve these things we must have more than just one side of the industrial arena working towards this situation, that we must have all people in Australia working towards this end. I am convinced in my own mind that there are people in Australia who are purposely subverting economic recovery. They do not want to see a full recovery with full employment because that would not suit their political purposes. The Commission has been trying to bring about a climate of sanity in its wage fixing policy. It is the same climate as the Government has been trying to bring about in economic recovery. 
I think in this context we cannot forget the relationship which productivity has to the ability of employers to pay wages and the economic climate which surrounds productivity. To me it is common sense- perhaps I do not read the same text books as do honourable gentlemen oppositethat if employers are to pay higher wages there must be an increase in productivity. If more is being taken out of the cake by increased wages then something has to suffer and that is either the ability of the employer to be able to invest in new projects and thereby create new employment or his ability to pay the number of employees he has already. The Minister for Special Trade Negotiations  (Mr Howard)  quoted the words of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. I recall the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  during his time as Prime Minister, saying that one man's increase in pay meant another man's job. What has happened to those principles since the Opposition lost the 1 975 election? Have honourable members opposite forgotten those statements? They are still relevant today. What happened to productivity? One of the stalwarts of the Australian Labor Party for a lifetime, one who saw the writing on the wallsome of the younger members opposite have not seen it yet- is  Sir John  Egerton who recently in an article in the  Bulletin  had this to say in relation to unions: 
They can assist by agreeing to a program of greater productivity. This does not necessarily mean a substantially greater personal effort but improved continuity of work and a realisation that protection of new employment avenues is the most telling contribution unions can make. 
Here is a critical factor in economic recovery in this country today. Unions are dedicated for their own political reasons. I stress that I am not referring to all unions but to those militant unions which are led by a minority, by communists. These are people like  Mr Carmichael, Mr Halfpenny, Mr Gallagher, Mr Clancy, Mr Elliott  and a few others of their ilk who are in critical positions and are dedicated to destroying the economic and social system of this country. They are dedicated to bringing that about by tearing down the economy and replacing the system, which we have known and enjoyed in Australia, with their communist or socialist system.  Sir John  Egerton in the same article stated:  . . . the economy is seriously threatened by disputes which do not show up in the statistics and which in many cases involve no lost time for their originators, though the disputes put other workers out of employment. 
This is a fact with which honourable gentlemen on the opposite side cannot disagree. We have had a situation which has threatened employment such as that relating to the Utah Development Co. project in Queensland which could offer employment for at least 2,000 people. That project was threatened by a minority of communist led unionists subverting that program and eliminating job opportunities. Another instance is in Tasmania were eight members of the Transport Workers Union were in dispute with other unionists. Because of that the ports of Burnie, Devonport and Bell Bay have been tied up. At least 3,000 workers will be put out of work if those eight unionists do not go back to work. That is what is causing the economic downturn in this country. Honourable members opposite come in here and piously say that because they have read a text book on economics they can interpret the problems of this country and get the economy going. Good God, honourable members should get out in the factories and the work places where it is all taking place. That is where they will learn what Australia is all about. 
The railways workers in Hobart are back at work, my friend. They have learnt common sense. Perhaps the honourable member should go and join them. Let us look at employment. The honourable member for Gellibrand suggested the factor of female employment. Unfortunately, in the debate on employment, this factor has not been brought to light. The honourable member for Gellibrand touched on it but I think he should have gone further and pointed out that in the 10 years from 1966 to 1976 the percentage of married females in total employment has increased from 14 per cent to 21.2 per cent. At present there are 1,287,000 married females in the total work force. That is an increase of 435,000 married women in the work force. Surely these two-income earners in the one family are reducing the employment opportunities for other Australians. I submit to the House that the Commission is doing its darn.dest in a most difficult economic climate which we are facing in Australia. It is combining with the Government in recognising that wages are an inherent part of the economy and that they play a substantial part in economic recovery, but both the Commission and the Government are being subverted in their joint efforts by a minority of militant trade unionists. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is now concluded. 
The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations will be aware that the Norgard report on the Commonwealth Employment Service proposed significant changes designed to improve the effectiveness of the CES. Can the Minister inform the House when we are likely to know what action the Government intends to take on the various recommendations? 
-The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations is aware that legislation was introduced last year to allow for secret postal ballots in union elections. In the light of experience, is the Government satisfied that its legislation is working satisfactorily? 
-Earlier in the day the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  brought before the House one of the most serious matters which concerns this nation, that is, the disruption and permanent damage that is being done to this country by militant trade union leaders. This matter needs to be further aired in this place. We are not talking about trade union leaders who are concerned about their rank and file members and who genuinely want to bring about better work conditions for their members and genuinely represent them in industrial cases. We are talking about those trade union leaders who are motivated by political reasons, people who are prepared to use guerrilla tactics to disrupt the normal processes of the country, people who want to do no more than use their muscle through the trade union movement to bring about the economic downfall of this country. 
Leading this group of militant trade unions are people who are aligned with the Communist Party of Australia and other communist factions. I am talking particularly about  Mr Pat  Clancy, who is aligned with the pro-Moscow group of the Communist Party- the Socialist Party of Australia. He is being hotly opposed by  Mr Norm  Gallagher of the Builders Labourers Federation, who is aligned with the Marxist group of communists. It is mainly faction fighting between these communists that is causing much of the disruption. These people are prepared to use more than the normal industrial tactics. They are not prepared to call a strike now, because they have found that the community is not prepared to accept strikes any more. They want to use intimidation, standover tactics and blackmail. They want to use those sorts of guerrilla tactics that will not show up in statistics but which cause enormous economic damage to this country. 
What do we hear from these people? They are not prepared to come out and be honest about what they are doing; they want to do it behind the door. They want to use blackmail and standover tactics. What was brought up in a deregistration case? When the Builders Labourers Federation was brought before the Industrial Court for deregistration  Mr Justice  Franki had this to say in his judgment: 
The senior industrial officer of the respondent Wal Glover of the Master Builder's Association of NSW was recalled and gave evidence of a conversation he had with  Mr Gallagher  later during the morning of the day on which the printer gave his evidence. The senior industrial officer said  Mr Gallagher  said to him 'Wal, you've got that fellow from Diamond Valley Press here today to give evidence. Ill put him out of business '. 
This is the type of standover tactic which these people are prepared to use. They are prepared to use it not only against genuine business people who are trying to get this country going, but also against each other. As the honourable member for St George said earlier today in this place, in March this year there was a disgraceful exhibition when the Builders Labourers Federation invaded the offices of the Building Workers Industrial Union, tossed furniture all around the place, and frightened the female staff of that office. Why did they do this? It was because one union leader was simply trying to assert his dominance over another. I believe it is high time that the people of this country- the ordinary, decent Australian people who want to work and to get this country going- said to these radical communists: 'We are not prepared to tolerate you anymore'. 
The honourable member for St George earlier today mentioned several matters to which I believe the Government should give serious consideration in order to make these communiststhese radical union leaders- acknowledge the law of the land, to ensure that they are brought under the normal controls of society. Which is what I believe society demands. No longer is the community prepared to put up with those people who want to hide behind the umbrella of genuine organisations such as trade unions which have been established for many years for quite genuine reasons- to represent the working people of Australia. These trade union leaders want to hide behind mummy's apron so that they can use their position of power to push their communist tactics. I believe it is high time that the people of Australia and the Parliament of Australia said: 'We will not tolerate it any more. We are going to make these people abide by the law of the land'. 
Is the Minister for Health aware that certain organisations in Tasmania have been informed by the State Government that their projects cannot be funded because the Commonwealth Government has not agreed to the release of funds under the Community Health Program? Can he inform the House as to the details of the Commonwealth funding arrangements for Tasmania under this program? 
I agree with the sentiments expressed by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  namely, that it should not be the role of government to interfere with the findings of independently appointed distribution commissioners setting electoral boundaries for Federal divisions. As the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  said, the report by the distribution commissioners for Tasmania is the first of the redistribution proposals to come before the Parliament. There is no doubt that on balance, based on the results of the 1975 election, the redistribution favours the Labor Party. Be that as it may, I adopt the view that it should not be the role of government to exert its power or influence through the Parliament in order to instruct the distribution commissioners on what they should recommend. If that were to happen, no doubt there would be a gerrymander of the electorate Australia-wide in favour of the government of the day. I do not think democracy in Australia would be served if that were to be the case. 
Whilst we from Tasmania accept that the distribution commissioners' report favours the Labor Party, we do not adopt the view that it makes it impossible for the Liberal Party to win seats. In fact we hold the opposite view. Despite the way that the boundaries are drawn the five Liberal Party members of this chamber from Tasmania will have an extremely good chance of retaining their seats at the next election. Although the redistribution favours the Labor Party, we believe that the performance put up by the five Liberal members of this chamber from Tasmania has appealed to the electorate in Tasmania and that our efforts, as a team acting on behalf of the people of Tasmania, have been such as to ensure that the five Tasmanian House of Representatives seats will be retained by the Liberal Party. 
I must return to the principle which I mentioned when I began my speech and on which I said that I agreed with the honourable member for Corio. I do not believe that governments which override the recommendations of independently elected commissioners for the drawing of electoral boundaries play any role in furthering or maintaining democracy. It is on that principle that I wholeheartedly accept the recommendations of the distribution commissioners and I am proud to add my name in support of the recommendations and m passing them through this chamber. 
-Once again we have heard a lot of hot air from the Opposition spokesman on employment and industrial relations. It is the heap of rhetoric that we have heard so often from him and other speakers from the Opposition. While they are in opposition Labor supporters claim that they are the experts in the field of employment and industrial relations, but their track record while in office gives the lie to any expertise that they might claim to have in this field. What happened while they were actually occupying the treasury bench and the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  had the portfolio which is now held by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)?  While they were in office the level of unemployment rose by 200 per cent in 12 months. When they came to office there were 120,000 people registered as unemployed on the books of the Commonwealth Employment Service, but when they left office the level of unemployment had risen to something like 250,000 people. That was because of the economic policies of the Labor Government. I venture to suggest that Labor supporters, rather than claiming to be the experts in the field of employment , should hang their heads in shame at the track record that they left for this country. 
What did these people from the Opposition side, who claim to be such experts, do? The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  tells us the number of people who are registered with the CES as being unemployed, but does he make the claim that those figures are accurate? Does he make the claim that there are other factors that should be taken into account when we look at the figures relating to those people who are registered as being unemployed? Surely he should look at those people who are registered as being unemployed who are already in the work force and are looking to change their jobs. Surely he should look at those married women who desire to get a job and who have registered with the CES. Surely he does not claim that those people are unemployed. 
If honourable members want to look at accurate figures for unemployment, they should take account of the research that was done by the Roy Morgan Research Centre Pty Ltd quite recently. It is enlightening to look at the results that this firm came up with. I think all honourable members would acknowledge this firm's expertise in this field. As a result of its survey, the Roy Morgan Research Centre claims that in actual fact 260,000 people would be the total number who could genuinely claim to be unemployed in Australia at the moment. We need also to analyse that figure a little more closely. Of that figure of 260,000 people, 66,000 people in fact were working part-time and a further 40,000 people were either stood down temporarily or were waiting to begin a new job. This takes 100,000 people off the unemployment figure straight away. If we take account of the Roy Morgan figures, the number who were actually out of work represent 2.9 per cent of the full-time work force, a far different percentage from the figure quoted by the honourable member for Gellibrand. Of that number the Roy Morgan Research Centre found that 70,000 people were the main breadwinners in a family, not the 300,000-odd people whom the honourable member for Gellibrand would have us believe. Of those 70,000 people, 15,000 people were working in part-time employment and only 38,000 main breadwinners were out of a job. If we look at the figures that a reputable firm like the Roy Morgan Research Centre has produced, we must agree that the figures that are given to us by the honourable member for Gellibrand need more careful analysis and, in fact, should be taken with a grain of salt. 
The honourable member implied in his speech that this Government is heartless and heedless of the problems of unemployment. Honourable members need to look at what the Government has done during its period in office and what the Opposition would do if it occupied the treasury bench. This Government has introduced the Commonwealth Rebate Apprenticeship Fulltime Training scheme. I am sure honourable members opposite are familar with the CRAFT scheme and the .great assistance it has been in helping employers engage apprentices and in helping a lot of young people throughout Australia gain apprenticeships and be able to follow their chosen careers and qualify as skilled tradesmen. This has been done by a government which is concerned to see that young people are properly employed in positions that they want and can follow their life's ambition to gain the right employment. The Government has also introduced the Special Youth Employment Training Program which is of tremendous assistance in helping those young school leavers who have not been fortunate enough to find a job to be subsidised by this Government for the first six months of their employment so that they obtain gainful employment and prove to their employers that they are productive employees and that they will make long time valued additions to their staff. 
I refer also to the Community Youth Support scheme, another scheme that this Government has undertaken to help those young people find a place in society, to help community needs, while they are looking for their rightful places in the work force. We hear so often from heartless people in the community that young people who have just left school are not fitted to go into the work force, that they do not care about others in society. But this scheme is proving the he to that theory because it has proved to be invaluable in allowing young people to undertake community work to show their worth in the community, to allow them to find their place and be mindful of others, the old people and those less fortunate in the community. What would the Labor Party do? The honourable member for Gellibrand and others come into this chamber with a lot of rhetoric that we have heard over and over again but what is it that their spokesmen for economic matters, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  and others- I am not sure whether it is eeny, meeny or miney this week- have said on numerous occasions? It came out of the Labor Party's Perth conference that the Labor Party would put Australia another $800m in hock in order to create 50,000 temporary jobs. Surely we would have to agree that it was this sort of economic madness that brought Australia into the difficulties we are now experiencing? It is because of the economic incompetence of honourable member's opposite that unemployment is a problem with which this Government has been left to deal. 
-As my honourable friend from Denison said, they are economic vandals. They do not know how to manage the economy. They came into office. They were permitted by the Australian public to have three years occupying the government benches. In that time, they put Australia into debt for many years to come. When they said it was too much for them and they could not handle the economy, they passed responsibility over to this Government. All they want to do now is criticise this Government for the genuine efforts we are making to get this country out of the mess they created for us and for the rest of Australia 
They crucified Tasmania as my honourable friend from Denison said. Honourable members opposite claim that we are at fault. They think that we should act like God, or that we should wave a magic wand, and solve aU the problems that they created. What about their colleagues in the trade unions? Do they share any of the blame? What have we just seen in Victoria? It was one of the most disgraceful performances by any group in the community that any fair minded person could see. It was a disgraceful performance. Those people put 400,000 people out of a job. Why? Because a few communists wanted to pursue their own political ambitions, they were prepared to put 400,000 people out of a job. Now honourable members opposite are coming into this House and saying that we are to blame. Is this because they are genuine about their concern for the unemployed or is it because they , want to represent the interests of those extremist left wingers and communists in this place? I believe that this is the case. What is happening in Tasmania, a trade union State where the moderates have been able to dominate the Trades and Labour Council for so long? The Labor Party expelled moderating influences such as Peter Imlach and Robert Watling so it could replace them with its communist mates. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Ian Robinson)-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Before I call the honourable member for Cunningham, I draw the Committee's attention to the fact that this is the honourable member's maiden speech. I ask that the usual courtesies be extended to him. 
-Is the Minister for Transport aware of the derailment of the Tasman Limited passenger train near the township of Evandale last Monday? Has the Minister seen a statement by the Tasmanian Secretary of the Australian Railways Union,  Mr Northey,  accusing the Federal Government of criminal neglect over the derailment and claiming that the Government intends to use the derailment as an excuse to withdraw the train from service? Will the Minister inform the House as to the truth of these allegations? 
I join with the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)  in congratulating the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  on presenting these Bills to the House for debate. I am conscious of the fact that, since this Government took office, the Minister has worked religiously to try to bring together the parties involved in the stevedoring industry to come to agreement and to bring some more logical order into what has been a most bedevilled industry. The Minister has brought the parties together in debate in a most orderly fashion. I think it is to his credit that these Bills which we are debating have the support of all parties involved in the stevedoring industry. 
I think that we need to give some consideration in this debate to the factors that caused these Bills to be introduced and to the changes which are now being made to the administrative structure of the stevedoring industry. As the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  mentioned in his speech in this debate, the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority was set up in 1956 as a government instrumentality to control the functions of the stevedoring industry and those people who would be engaged in stevedoring activities. That Authority, albeit a government run authority, worked with some success and brought stability to the waterfront up until 1967-68, when an inquiry headed by  Mr Justice  Woodward recommended that significant changes be made to the conditions of employment of waterside workers. The honourable member for Cunningham mentioned that waterside workers had been deprived of some of the conditions to which other people working under other awards have been entitled. I think that any fair minded person, looking at the conditions of employment that have applied to waterside workers since the Woodward commission of inquiry brought down its recommendations and since those recommendations were implemented, would have to agree that the conditions that have applied to waterside workers since that time were more than the economy of any industry could possibly tolerate. 
I do not think that anybody in this chamber would deny that waterside workers are entitled to adequate holiday leave, sick leave and illness compensation. I think that honourable members on both sides would agree that waterside workers, like all other industrial workers, are entitled to those conditions. But the main problem that was introduced by the Woodward inquiry was the provision of permanent employment. What that really meant- I do not think the honourable member for Cunningham really spelt out the significance of that recommendationwas that a waterside worker could not be dismissed from his employment. That was a most significant change from what had previously applied and from what applies under any other award. What happened over a period since 1967-68 when those recommendations took effect was that, through mechanisation on the waterfront and through the impact of roll-on roll-off ferries the demand for physical labour by the waterside workers simply became less. The waterside workers grew older but there was no way in which those people could be removed from their positions on the waterfront, and that meant that we had an aging group of waterside workers who could leave the industry only by voluntary retirement. They could not be retrenched by their employer, the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. They could not be removed from the industry by any mechanism other than voluntary retirement. The net effect of that recommendation over a period was that we had a build-up in numbers of waterside workers who were surplus to the numbers required at ports throughout Australia, to the extent that in recent months some 1,200 men who simply did not have a job were still being paid by the Australian people. 
What happened finally to bring this matter to a head was that waterside workers were working 20 hours a week, the remainder of their working time was what was known as 'idle time' but they were still being paid through the levy system by the employers or the shipowners. This situation was totally intolerable. Whilst the honourable member for Cunningham and other honourable members opposite may say that certain stevedoring companies should be able to afford to pay waterside workers for such idle time, the plain fact is that it was not the employers or the stevedoring companies which were paying these people not to work; it was the Australian consuming public, because any cost that is imposed on the waterfront must be passed on in costs that ultimately reach the retail consumer. In Tasmania we are all too conscious of that fact. Any manufactured goods or rural goods that have to leave that State must leave by ship. There is no alternative to getting our goods over to the local market or to export markets. In Tasmania we were paying, through a very heavy levy system, an inordinate cost that was taking away the profitability of all the goods that we were producing in Tasmania. That situation, whether it applied to Tasmanian producers or to other Australian producers selling on an export market, simply could not be tolerated. 
The situation was reached in which the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority, albeit imposing heavy costs on the industry and those costs being passed on to the consuming public, had an accumulated debt of some $22m. That debt was being guaranteed by the Federal Government. It had built up because of the idle time that was not being worked by waterside workers. It was the responsibility of any government to correct that situation so that this anomalous cost could be removed from the taxpayers of Australia. I believe that it was only through the dedication of the present Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations that that situation has been resolved, resulting in the presentation of these Bills. During the period in which this Government has been in office, conferences have been held between the stevedoring companies, the Australian Shippers' Council, the Waterside Workers Federation of Australia and other bodies with an interest in the stevedoring industry. They have come together on many occasions to discuss this anomalous situation and, in private conference, to determine what can be done about it. 
The first inquiry, set up by the previous Government, under  Mr Northrop,  Q.C., heard a considerable amount of evidence and brought down a report. That report was taken up at a later stage by an inquiry headed by  Mr Justice  Kirby, during this Government's period in office, which finally reported in April 1977. If one analyses the two reports, one finds that the Government had one of two alternatives available to it. The Government could either continue as a direct employer of waterside labour and subcontract that labour to whoever chose to hire it or it could withdraw from the industry and allow the employers, the stevedoring companies, to employ directly the waterside labour that they required in order to maintain their operations. The Government, I believe, very wisely chose the latter of those two alternatives. In other words, it decided to withdraw its participation from the stevedoring industry. As the honourable member for Cunningham agreed in his speech, it was the Government's involvement that built up a bureaucratic organisation that was inefficient in its operations and which caused many of the problems that were perceived in the stevedoring industry. I agree with the honourable member for Cunningham that each time the Government tries to set up and operate in a private enterprise situation it ends in disaster because the Government does not have the motivation to be efficient that a private enterprise organisation has. The Government very wisely decided to withdraw from this industry and to allow direct employeremployee negotiations to take place so that the industry can be conducted on a far more efficient and economic basis. 
The honourable member for Cunningham seemed somewhat surprised that the present arrangements hinged on worker participation. I remind the honourable member that this Government has been very conscious that worker participation, direct participation between employers and employees, can have a most beneficial effect on those who are involved in the industrial field. Certainly this Government has been doing much to promote that concept of worker participation in other industries. We are fortunate to see this come to fruition in these Bills. I also remind honourable gentlemen opposite that it was achieved not only as a result of the recommendations of  Mr Justice  Kirby and  Mr Northrop,  Q.C., now  Mr Justice  Northrop, that there should be direct negotiation and direct consultation between employers and employees; it was also accepted unanimously by the Waterside Workers Federation to work in a private enterprise situation. I commend the Waterside Workers Federation for coming to that conclusion. It was able to see that by having this direct negotiation it would be better able to negotiate with the people who were paying its members and that must lead ultimately to a more efficient and harmonious situation on the waterfront. 
We have a situation now where the Government is introducing a considerable number of Bills that are designed to re-establish the administrative organisation of the waterfront. The Government must do two things in this series of Bills. Firstly, it must disband the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority and replace it with another administrative organisation that will allow the operation of the waterfront to be conducted in an efficient manner. Secondly, it must, by way of this series of Bills, pay off the accumulated debts of $22m that have been built up during a period of time, particularly since 1967. Unfortunately, to pay off those debts it has been necessary to continue a very heavy levy arrangement but the Government was in the situation where it had no alternative. Perhaps this is one of the factors that honourable gentlemen opposite really do not understand. In a government administration, if a debt is built up, it must be paid off at some point in time. Whilst that might be true in any other situation, it is equally true in the stevedoring industry. It is unfortunate but there really is no alternative. 
A committee has been set up to administer the financial arrangements of the stevedoring industry, to handle the levies, to pay off the debts and also to make provision for sick leave, long service leave and other benefits to which waterside workers are entitled. Very wisely, the Government has decided to accept the recommendations of the Kirby conference to establish a series of port and Federal committees to negotiate and liaise on matters between waterside workers and the employers. This will be done at two levels. Firstly, there will be the port committees that will operate at a local level to hear, discuss and liaise on local matters in each port. If resolution cannot be obtained in those port committees- hopefully it will be- matters will be referred to a Federal committee for final decision. I think the Government very wisely has accepted the option to .establish these port committees. As the honourable member for Cunningham said, this is a very realistic way for the Government to bring in worker participation, to allow the workers who are involved directly on the waterfront to negotiate personally with their employers. 
One of the matters that we need to be conscious of in these arrangements is the continuation of redundancy. Whilst it has accepted the present arrangements, the Waterside Workers Federation has reserved the right to resist any suggestion of involuntary redundancy. I do not think any fair minded Australian could accept that as being a logical situation. If there is no gainful employment for a worker, then there is no job and, logically, he should not be paid for doing nothing. Whilst it might be a difficult fact of life that those people who, because of mechanisation or modernisation in a particular work area, are made redundant, there is no alternative. This is progress and we should not hold back progress. I hope that the Waterside Workers Federation will be more realistic in the coming months and years and change its attitude on this matter of redundancy. 
In these Bills the Government is taking a most significant step in regard to the stevedoring industry. It has not been done lightly. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and the Government have worked very hard in a most dedicated way during this Government's period in office for all those people involved in the stevedoring industry- the employers and the unions. The Minister has been prepared to listen to representations, to negotiate and to liaise between the parties involved. In framing the legislation, he has done it in a way that should satisfy all of those people who are involved in the industry. I believe that if all those participants in the stevedoring industry are prepared to put their weight behind these Bills and support the Government's efforts, we will see a more rational, a more economic and a more efficient operation on the waterfront in future years. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I would like to extend my congratulations to the right honourable member for Bruce  (Sir Billy Snedden)  on his election once again as  Speaker  of this House and to the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  on his election as  Chairman  of Committees. I am quite sure that those two gentlemen will perform their tasks in this House with dignity and impartiality and that it will add to the standard of debate. More importantly I wish to add my congratulations to the Government on its re-election and on the astuteness of the electors of Australia in returning this Government for a further period of three years. I think that during the previous two years the Government demonstrated to the people of Australia that it has the policies and the courage to put those policies into effect. The vote in December 1977 was an endorsement by the people of Australia of their confidence in the Fraser Government. They are confident that the policies that will be implemented in this period of government will restore economic prosperity to Australia. 
The Labor Party has made great play of the level of unemployment in Australia. It does that seemingly with two thoughts in mind: Firstly, that it has a mortgage on concern for unemployment and that honourable members on this side of the House are totally unconcerned about the level of unemployment; and, secondly, that it has the only formula for solving that problem. I remind honourable members opposite that those on this side of the House also represent electors. We are concerned about our constituents and we are concerned to have young people in gainful employment. We and the Government are looking at policies to advance the economic and industrial prosperity of Australia in order to create gainful jobs and not, as the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  just suggested, piecemeal jobs that create a false image of prosperity. 
It seems to me that the Labor Party in its concepts of economics is unable to identify the difference between economic prosperity and unemployment. It does not seem to couple the two together. On the other hand the Fraser Government quite rightly says: 'You cannot have full employment until you have economic prosperity'. To me that seems to be total common sense. Two years ago this Government took over one of the most disastrous economic situations that Australia had ever faced. It has worked religiously to correct the economic ills that it inherited from its predecessors. I believe that we are now in a period in which those economic policies are starting to take bite and that during the next three years we will see a recovery in the economy, a restoration of economic prosperity and a restoration of full employment in Australia. But we cannot have full employment until we have economic prosperity. The two go together. I believe that this period of government will be very challenging not only for this Government and the people who were elected to this Parliament but also for all Australia. We face a period in which economic prosperity is possible but it will be realised only by the hard work and dedication of every person in the community who earnestly desires prosperity. 
At present in Australia many projects that are ready to go ahead are on the drawing boards. Those industrial, rural and mining projects can contribute greatly to the economic prosperity of this country. On the other hand, there seems to be a counter-balancing force that is not particularly concerned about economic prosperity. Some people would rather flex their political muscle. I refer to disruptive elements within the trade union movement. The goal of economic prosperity will not be realised until the disruptive elements in the trade union movement are prepared to accept what the community demands and will work in a lawful society and abide by the self-discipline which the society demands. 
In the latter part of the last Parliament the Government brought in Bills to restructure the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. They were the most wide-ranging amendments to the Act since it was first introduced. They laid down a formula for industrial peace and harmony and for common sense to be returned to industrial negotiations, but that can work only if people on both sides of the industrial spectrum are prepared to discipline themselves to allow it to work. Whilst it is fair enough for people engaged in trade unions to represent their members and put forward proposals for increased wages and advanced working conditions, they must also realise that their members cannot have improved conditions unless there is prosperity in the industries in which they work. We recognise that fact but I earnestly believe that a number of the disruptive elements within the trade union movement are not concerned about the interests of their members, the Australian community or economic prosperity in this country. They are concerned only to exercise political strength. Those people, particularly the communist elements within the trade union movement, are concerned to bring down society rather than to advance it. This Government and the people of Australia will no longer tolerate these disruptive elements who are purposely advancing communism in their own way. The Government and the society must put an end to it once and for all. 
We should look closely at the system of industrial relations in America, in particular their contract employment agreements. It has much to recommend it. Employers and industries in that country can come to an agreement with the respective trade union movements for a period of two or three years. That contract of agreement becomes law and can be enforced in the courts. On that basis industry is in a much better position to make forward plans for improvements and developments. The Government and those involved in industry in Australia should be looking very closely at this system of industrial organisation. I commend it to the Government for further investigation. The basis of the American system is that if there is an agreement there is also a responsibility. The two go hand in glove. If one has an advantage one must also have a responsibility. In America those agreements can be enforced in the courts. If there is a breach of the agreement by either party penalties apply in the same way as in any other breach of the law. The Government should look very seriously at that system of industrial relations. 
As mentioned by both the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson)  and the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury),  one of the most exciting developments we will see in this period of Parliament is the extension of Australian waters to a 200-mile limit. This effectively will double the area of Australia's jurisdiction. In other words, the area of water for which we will be responsible will be roughly equal to the land mass of Australia. At this stage the resources both in the water and under the water within that 200-mile zone are very largely unknown. But, as mentioned by the honourable member for Leichhardt, the prospect of developing those resources both for the creation of job opportunities and for the food source that they contain for the underfed peoples of Asia is very exciting. 
I am aware that a number of proposals have been presented to the Government or have been negotiated between private interests to develop those resources under joint venture agreements with foreign countries. I strongly urge the Government to exercise caution in proceeding with those negotiations until such time as the resources have been analysed properly and to ensure that when we go into a joint venture agreement or any other agreement to exploit the resources of the 200-mile zone we do it in a very common-sense way that will manage the resources to the utmost, not over-exploit them. 
I was somewhat disturbed to read recent Press reports that would appear to indicate that the 
Tasmanian Government has gone ahead and allowed Japanese interests, in conjunction with Australian companies, to exploit some of the resources in the Tasmanian waters. I doubt very much that it would have the legal authority to do that. Certainly, in a moral sense, I think it has erred greatly. It would appear from documents about that agreement which I have read that the agreement does not allow the Australian interests to obtain the maximum benefit from the agreement with the Japanese in the form of port facilities, victualling, repairs and maintenance and the processing of the fish catch. None of that has been incorporated in the agreement. I would term what the Tasmanian Government has done in this case as nothing more than a sell-out of a very valuable Australian resource. I strongly urge the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and the Australian Government to look very carefully at joint fishing ventures and not to race with too much haste into those proposals that might be on the Minister's desk at the moment. 
If we are to develop and manage in a proper manner the resources in the coastal waters of Australia and have the capability of surveillance, it is vital that the Government give urgent consideration to the establishment of a coastguard organisation. We have enormous resources in our waters. We have the longest coastline of any country in the world, but we have no effective policing force that can ensure that there is not over-exploitation or that the coastal waters of Australia are not abused in some form or other. At present surveillance around the total coastline of Australia is left jointly to the Royal Australian Navy and the Royal Australian Air Force, but both of those forces are designed to defend Australia against a foreign aggressor. They are not effectively police forces. 
What we need to consider urgently in this country is establishing an organisation that is designed to police the waters of Australia. It would have a dual role of effectively policing fishing operators who might be exploiting the waters, and policing what is quite apparently a prolific trade in drugs coming into the northern areas of Australia and the immigrants who seem to be bobbing up in northern areas every now and again. The coastguard organisation could have a multiple role, but basically it would be designed to police the coastal areas of Australia. I believe that the Government needs to give very urgent consideration to establishing such a force. 
I believe also that the Government should consider establishing more authority for the Parliament itself. Criticism has been coming from the community about the control and power that are being exercised jointly by the Executive and the Public Service and I believe that there is some justification for this criticism. A power structure that could not be said to be in the best interests of the Australian community has been established in Canberra over an evolutionary period. 
What we urgently need in order to build up the stature and acceptance of the parliamentary institution in Australia is an acceptance by the community that this Parliament can offer itself as an institution to advance the well-being of the Australian people. But to do that we cannot operate in the remoteness of Canberra. The people who are elected to this Parliament must move out into the community and make themselves available to it both individually and collectively so that it can obtain information. They must be available for consultation and discussion with various community groups throughout Australia. Having had those discussions they can then feed that information back to the Government in Canberra with the firm conviction that the views that are being put by the community will be listened to in Canberra. 
The best way of doing this would be by the establishment of parliamentary committee groups. We should look seriously at that. I am aware that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has before him at the moment a report by the  chairman  of the Government members' committees which will go a long way towards what I am suggesting. But, above that, I think we should look seriously at expanding the parliamentary committee system to one perhaps along the lines of the Senate committee system. We could even go beyond that and look at the American style of congressional committees, which have a semijudicial authority. The Government would be very wise to look at establishing authoritative committees which have a purposeful and functional role to play in the parliamentary process and which can liaise actively with various community groups. 
In closing I congratulate my new parliamentary colleagues. I must admit, having spoken with those colleagues who have come into this place for the first time, that I am impressed with their ability. 
I must not forget the honourable member for Fadden, who is representing a new electorate. I would hardly call him a new member, although sometimes he acts like one. I was most impressed with the maiden speeches made by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton)  and the honourable member for Tangney  (Mr Shack).  I am certain that other honourable members who have come into this place for the first time will bring a wealth of talent and experience to this House and add to the quality of debate in it. I congratulate them on their election and look forward to working closely with them. I am certain that if we continue to attract men of their calibre into the Parliament we can look forward to a very prosperous future under the guidance of Malcolm Fraser. 
Can the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations inform the House what the Government intends to do in relation to the Commonwealth Employment Service dispute involving the recruitment of non-Public Service staff? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for National Development been drawn to Press statements relating to the Warner Creek Dam project? Has the Federal Government received any recommendation for funding under the national water resources development program from the Tasmanian Government? Is it true, as claimed by the Tasmanian Premier, that the State will be asked to contribute to the capital cost on a dollar for dollar basis? Have guidelines for funding under the national water resources development program been developed? Will the Federal Government give favourable consideration to the Warner Creek Dam project if recommended by the State Government? 
-We have just heard from the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  a great deal of emotional rhetoric which means absolutely nothing. In order to bring some common sense back into the debate, following the piffle we have heard so far tonight, I think we should define very clearly what the States Grants (Petroleum Products) Amendment Bill is all about. The honourable member for Shortland failed to recognise that there is a distinction between the freight component of transporting fuel to country areas and the pricing arrangement which is determined by the fuel companies. That is essentially what this Bill is all about. The Bill is designed to equalise the freight component, the cost of transporting fuel to country areas. In that respect I fully support the Bill. 
The honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  in his speech earlier tonight made the point very clearly that the oil companies are far from blemish because of the pricing arrangement which they have entered into throughout the length and breadth of this country. In his campaign to get the oil companies to enter into a responsible and reasonable pricing arrangement, I give the honourable member my full support. What we have to keep very clearly in our minds is that this Bill is not about pricing arrangements, either wholesale or retail; it is about the freight component of transporting fuel to country areas. I would be remiss in my duty to the country people in the areas encompassed by the electorate of Wilmot if I did not give this Bill my full support because the Bill is about the disadvantaged people in the country areas, not only in Tasmania but also throughout the length and breadth of Australia. The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  the honourable member for Shortland and their colleagues have said: 'We do not give a damn about the country people in Australia. We will tax them up to the hilt. We will do everything we can to pull them down'. 
I repeat that the purpose of this Bill is to bring to people in country areas some fair and equitable method of fuel pricing. As the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  said earlier in this debate, this is a fuel freight equalisation Bill. The honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  has shown quite rightly in his speech and in other actions he has taken before the Bill was introduced his concern that there should be a lowering of fuel prices for the people of Tasmania. I give him my full support in that regard. The record of the oil companies has been far from unblemished, as we have seen from the way in which they have discounted retail prices for the people of Melbourne and Sydney to the detriment of the people of Tasmania. But there is a distinction between the pricing arrangements that the oil companies make through their retail outlets and the nature of the Bill. 
What the Government is trying to do, step by step, is to reduce the price that country people have to pay for fuel. An essential component of that price is the freight cost of transporting the fuel from the urban areas to the country areas. That is what this Bill is all about, and we should not forget it. In considering this measure let us not only think about fuel prices and the freight component for transporting those fuels to country areas; let us also think about what the Australian Labor Party did while it was in Government. The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  has moved an amendment to the Bill which the Opposition claims would have the effect of reducing fuel prices in country areas. But what did Labor do when it had the opportunity in government? It wiped the fuel equalisation scheme. That showed Labor's consideration for country people. I do not think that the people of Australia will ever forget that. 
I am quite certain that people in country towns of my electorate and in the country towns in other parts of Australia will never forget what the Labor Party did to them while it was in government. Essentially this Bill is concerned with freight equalisation costs. The Government made it quite clear in its election promise that, step by step, it would reduce the price of fuel to country people. This is the first step in that process- reducing the freight component of fuel costs. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  and the Government have been in continuous negotiation with the oil companies in order to reduce the price that the fuel companies charge not only in country areas but also in urban areas throughout Australia. What is wrong with that? The Labor Opposition seems to be saying: 'For God's sake, do not do anything until you have the whole thing wrapped up'. 
We believe that we should provide whatever relief we can in regard to fuel prices that are paid by country people step by step when we have the opportunity. It is true that now we are relieving one component of the cost of fuel. Later, when negotiations have been completed by the Minister, I am quite certain that the Government will be bringing forward other measures that will reduce the fuel costs even further. I compliment the Government on doing that. I think that the Government ought to take cognisance of what the honourable member for Franklin said. He brought to the notice of this House the fact that for a long time fuel companies in this country have been exploiting certain areas of Australia to the benefit of other areas. In Tasmania we are all too conscious of the discounting arrangements that occur in the metropolitan areas of Melbourne and Sydney and in other big centres in Australia. The discounting operations in those centres must be paid for by the smaller areas and, in particular, by Tasmania. We are also conscious of the efforts that the Government is making through negotiation with the fuel companies to alleviate that problem. This Bill is concerned with freight equalisation as opposed to the equalisation of prices that are charged in the wholesale or retail outlets. 
Tonight when honourable members consider whether or not they will vote for the politically biased amendment moved by the Labor Opposition they should not lose sight of the fact that the Government is doing its damndest to reduce fuel costs payable by country people. The Government realises that it has further to go, but it recognises the plight of country people and by this Bill it is taking the first step of reducing the freight component. I thank the Government for that. If the Labor Opposition were concerned about the interests of country people it would join the Government in giving support to this Bill. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Is it true that the Tasmanian State Government has taken a conscious decision to refuse a Commonwealth grant of $2m for the Launceston General Hospital building project in this financial year? Is the Minister aware that the State Minister for Health has claimed that further funding for the hospital is in no way jeopardised by this decision since the Commonwealth is prepared to match funding for the Launceston General Hospital irrespective of what price escalation may occur as a result of this delay and subsequent delays on the part of the State Government? What is the Commonwealth's attitude to the statement made by the State Minister for Health? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Is the Minister aware that the only full time specialist rheumatologist in Tasmania has resigned to take up an appointment in South Australia? Has the Government made a decision on the request for assistance made by the Rheumatism and Arthritis Foundation of Tasmania on 17 January 1978? Will the Government contribute to the appointment of a rheumatologist and an occupational therapist to work in Tasmania? 
-I support the amendment moved by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon).  I add at the outset that I and, I am sure, all other honourable members in this House, have been inundated by letters and correspondence from solicitors, accountants and various other people who have had an opinion to put forward on the principles of retrospectivity and the measures that are now being brought before the House by the Government. I make the point that I have not read one of those letters. I have not taken account of any of the points that have been put to me by those people, many of whom, in my opinion, have an axe to grind. I made my decision on retrospectivity and on the amendment moved by the right honourable member for Lowe as a conscience decision on my own account. It has not been influenced by any other person or by any persons who have had an axe to grind. I hold the view, as I am quite sure do all honourable members in this House, that people who avoid their obligations to the tax system should be cracked down on hard. I see no reason why the Government has not done that in the past. 
It has been pointed out by the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  that in fact these measures- that are commonly known as the Curran schemes- were first brought to the light of day through the High Court in 1974. I think it is justifiable to ask the question: Why have successive governments not done something about them since 1974? The only conclusion I can draw from that is that action has not been taken by successive governments, both Labor and Liberal, or by the Taxation Office for one of two reasons- either inefficiency within the administration of government or the Taxation Office, or the fact that the amount of money involved was not great enough to invoke the principle of plugging that particular loophole. If either of those is the case, I find it inexcusable. I find it equally inexcusable that we are now being asked to backdate a taxation measure and, in so doing, scrap a fundamental principle of law and a fundamental principle of government in order to cover up the inefficiencies that have been obvious within the system. I find that inexcusable. 
As my colleagues the right honourable member for Lowe and the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  have pointed out, it is quite clear and unequivocal in the Liberal Party platform that taxation measures will not be made retrospective. I think all those who have a Liberal streak in their veins should uphold that principle. Certainly the State Executive of the Liberal Party in Tasmania was unanimous in supporting the principle embodied in that particular platform- that this measure should not be made retrospective. At my electorate conference, which was held two weeks ago, it was passed unanimously that the Government should in fact not make this or any other taxation measure retrospective. As was pointed out by the right honourable member for Lowe, this measure embodies a fundamental principle of law. That principle of law is that people should have confidence under the law and actions that are legal at the time they are made should not subsequently be made illegal by retrospective legislation passed by this or any other government. If the principle is to be embodied in Federal legislation, that an action so taken at the time of being legal subsequently is made illegal, I believe Australia is headed for the state of a banana republic. 
All honourable members on this side of the House should think about the precedent that is being set and what could flow in future years from that precedent. We have heard from the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  and other honourable members opposite about what they will do with this precedent once it becomes established. They have given forewarning that they intend to make future taxation legislation retrospective. They have said that they will plug loopholes. 
As the honourable member for Denison said, they will go back for years. Once the principle of backdating taxation legislation is established, what is to stop any future government using that precedent and backdating personal income tax legislation, sales tax legislation or any other taxation measure? There is no saying that that will not happen. It could happen if we establish the precedent. We are being asked now to set that precedent for future governments for years to come. 
I appeal to all my colleagues on this side of the Committee to think about that precedent and not vote now for the amount of money that is involved in this measure. In private discussions with my colleague the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  he pointed out that two conflicting principles are involved. One is the principle of equity in the taxation system. The other is the principle of backdating taxation measures and equity under the law. I acknowledge the conflicting principles outlined by the honourable member for Macarthur. My conclusion is that it should be equitable that those people who have an obligation to pay tax should be made to do so. But that principle is being clouded in this instance by the amount of money involved. As I said earlier, the principle was exactly the same last year, the year before and the year before that. But action was not taken to plug this loophole. What the Government is asking us to do now is to sacrifice the other principle of equity under the law because of the amount of money involved. 
I can conclude only that the Government is asking me and other honourable members to put a value in money terms on principles. I cannot do that. If a principle is a principle it remains a principle regardless of the amount of money involved. As I said, the principle of equity under the taxation law is the same this year as it was last year and the year before. The avoidance measures under the Curran scheme were known in 1974. Why then have successive governments not taken action to plug that loophole if the principle of equity was affected in those years? The principle of backdating a taxation measure and the principle of equity under the law were the same in those years as they are now. I cannot put a value in money terms on those principles and I fail to understand how any other person who supports a Liberal philosophy can do so. 
Has the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs received the final report from the Industries Assistance Commission relating to the Mt Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd? If the report has not been received, when is it expected to be received? If the report has been received, when will the Minister table it? 
I was absolutely astounded to read in this morning's  Mercury  newspaper from Hobart a report about the Tasmanian Treasurer and Acting Premier,  Mr Batt.  I can only interpret his remarks as a blatant admission that he is totally inefficient in his administration, as is the State Government. According to that newspaper report  Mr Batt  stated: 
I have been astounded at how some Government departments have sent me little chits saying sorry we have overspent our budget by $2m this year, and expect me to smile. 
I can understand  Mr Batt  not being too happy. From the Commonwealth Government's point of view, all  Mr Batt  and his State colleagues can do is appeal to it for more and more money to cover up for their inefficiencies. So often in Tasmania, whenever any capital construction work needs to be done, the only defence the State Government has is to say: 'We have not got enough money from the Commonwealth'. Yet here, in effect,  Mr Batt  is saying that he is inefficient and misusing taxpayers' money. The State Government which he leads at the moment needs to be exposed for its inefficiency and bungling. But what have we seen over the time the State Government has been in office? I ask honourable members to bear in mind that  Mr Batt  is saying that this situation has been going on for some years. The State Government came to office in 1972. One can only conclude from  Mr Batt's  statement that this waste of taxpayers' money has been going on for some years while the Labor Party has been in office. 
There was an agreement this year between the two governments that there would be a dollar for dollar subsidy to construct the Launceston General Hospital. At the last minute the State Government said: 'We are sorry, but we cannot fulfil our obligations because we have run out of money. ' Yet this sort of waste is going on within the State Government administration. Honourable members may ask what happened. The $1.5m which was available from the Commonwealth Government could not be spent on the hospital and it could not be re-allocated to any other hospital in Australia. 
It is a public scandal, as my colleague from Denison has said. Members of the State Labor Party Government must be exposed to the public for the incompetent rabble that they are. Let us look at the State Government work which is going on in Tasmania. As my friend from Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  well knows, our roads urgently need repair. But what does the State Government say when we ask for some State highways to be reconstructed or to be put into usable order? It replies that it does not have the money and that it has to get more money from the Commonwealth. Does the State Government want more money from the Commonwealth so that it can pour that down the drain through inefficient administration? It wants the money to cover up its own admitted inefficiencies. The State Government is appealing for all this money and yet urgent public works are going untended.  Mr Batt  stated: 
At the moment we have guaranteed $10m, and loaned $10m. 
That is where the money is going. It is a disgrace. 
-That is dead right. Public works in Tasmania are in urgent need. Some examples are the Launceston General Hospital, State highways, schools that are not being built, the Launceston ring road which the State Government says it cannot build and the second bridge over the Derwent River in Hobart. These are all urgent works, but the State Government says it does not have the money and that Canberra will not give it any more money. The State Government allows its departments to waste money, to pour it down the drain, and then appeals to the Commonwealth for more money. If the State Government departments are so inefficient, according to  Mr Batt's  own admission, it is high time that he called for the resignation of some of his Ministers who are obviously failing in their administration to a large degree and wasting taxpayers' money. 
He should resign as State Treasurer, as the honourable member for Denison has said. However, his crowning glory came right at the end of this article where, to underline his inefficiency, the report states: 

 Mr Batt called on the Tasmanian Chamber of Commerce to offer advice on the best ways of raising revenue through taxation. 
If that is not an admission of inefficiency by a State government, I do not know what is. If the Tasmanian Government is so bereft of ability it should resign and allow the people of Tasmania to make a judgment on whether this inefficient rabble should continue in government wasting public money the way it is. It should resign and allow the people to make that decision rather than continue in office wasting money that has been raised from and made available by the taxpayers. 
Will the Minister for Primary Industry advise the House what action he has taken to review Australia's beef export entitlement scheme following disclosures in the House by the  Deputy  Prime Minister that entitlements are being traded at 50c per lb and to refute claims being made by some cattle producers? Will the Minister table documents supporting assertions made by  Mr Jones,  the  Chairman  of the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation, that only one per cent of beef export entitlements are being traded? 
Has the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations seen statements by the re-elected secretary of the Builders Labourers Federation,  Mr Gallagher,  that that union intends to pursue a program of guerilla warfare to gain additional payments for building workers? Are such demands within the wage indexation guidelines? What effect will the predicted industrial disruption have on employment opportunities in the building and construction industries? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. In view of reports in this morning's Press that consideration is being given to allowing Ansett Airlines of Australia and Trans-Australia Airlines to operate on certain international routes, will the Minister give urgent consideration to allowing Ansett and TAA to operate a triangular service between Melbourne, Christchurch and Hobart? 
I would like to thank the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  for the bipartisan approach that the Opposition has taken to the Maritime College Bill during all stages of its passage through the House as well as prior to its introduction. I would also like to thank the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  for his condescending attitude in agreeing that Launceston is the best site for the Australian Maritime College. The people of Australia, and particularly those in 
Tasmania, should thank the honourable member for Bass  (Mr Newman),  the Minister for National Development, for the way in which he conducted the lead up to the College and the way in which he has conducted the BUI through this House. The honourable member for Bass has spared no effort in his endeavours on behalf of the people of Bass to get the College located in Launceston. They have been successful. 
This matter was first brought to light in the heat of the 1974 Bass by-election when both of the major Parties made a promise that the Maritime College would be sited at Launceston. Since his election to this place the honourable member for Bass has worked very enthusiastically to ensure that the Government honoured its promise. This Bill brings that promise to fruition and we will see the Maritime College located at Launceston. Irrespective of where the College is sited, whether it be at Launceston, Hobart, or any other place in Australia, we should acknowledge that it represents a major step forward by the Australian Government. This Government is looking to the future of the maritime industries of Australia and the additional training that crews will need. It is a very far-sighted approach by this Government and I am delighted that the Opposition has approached the Bill in such a bipartisan manner. 
We need only look at the increase in technology, in this day and age, not only in relation to merchant shipping but also fishing vessels, to understand why there is a great need to have crews of all capacities additionally trained. They must be trained in the technology they will face when they are on board vessels. We in Tasmania are particularly conscious of the need for increased training in view of some of the maritime catastrophes that have happened in recent times. I think particularly of the disaster involving the  Blyth Star  which capsized off South West Cape and, more recently, the disaster when the  Lake Illawarra  collided with the Tasman Bridge. These illustrations exemplify the need for people serving on board vessels to be properly trained. They need to understand modern technology and navigation. I think the College will play a very important part in training crews for the future to serve on the Australian coastline. 
I think that the establishment of the Australian Maritime College will have a particular impact on the blossoming fishing industry around the total Australian coastline, As the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Bradfield)  mentioned earlier in the debate, Australia will declare a 200-mile economic zone around the Australian coastline. This will open up an enormous new fishing capacity for the Australian fishing industry. In this respect, we need to realise that if the Australia fishing industry is to move into the trawl fisheries which are available in enormous quantities those people who will be serving at sea will need to man vessels of a far greater size than they have in the past and will need to be trained specifically to utilise the industry fully. The Maritime College will be particularly important in training those people. 
I might say also, perhaps in contradiction to what was stated by my friend the honourable member for Franklin, that I think the siting of the College on the Newnham campus is particularly appropriate. We should understand that the College will be sited adjacent to the Tasmanian college of advanced education at Newnham and that there will be a joint usage of the facilities of both the Tasmanian college of advanced education and the Maritime College. I think that this demonstrates the far-sighted thinking of those people who have sited the college at Newnham. We should have joint usage of the facilities which are available at both colleges. 
In conclusion, I would like to say, as my friend the honourable member for Franklin has said already, that the impact on the economy of Tasmania will be quite significant. The honourable member mentioned that there will be 200 full time staff at the College, together with 500 full time students and 100 part time students. In Tasmania we view the College as being an industry which will have an impact on the economy of northern Tasmania in particular and Tasmania generally. I think that this move, viewed together with the siting of the Antarctic base in Hobart, represents a major step forward by the present Government in decentralising government services and extending the opportunity to Tasmania to help its economy by siting the Public Service and Australian Government services in the State. I am particularly pleased that the maritime training centre will be located at Beauty Point, which is in my electorate. It will have an enormous impact on that area of the Tamar River. We are conscious of the need to boost the economy in the area because of the downturn in the fruit industry over recent years. The siting of the training centre at Beauty Point will give an enormous boost to the area at the mouth of the Tamar River. 
I congratulate the Government for proceeding with the introduction of this Bill. I congratulate the Minister for National Development, for the conscientious way in which he has guided it through the Parliament. I am delighted at the bipartisan way in which this legislation has been accepted by honourable members on both sides of the House. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. In view of the crash of a light aircraft at Essendon, which led to considerable loss of life, and the near collision off Sydney of two Boeing 747 aircraft, can the Minister inform the House what action has been taken to ensure Australia's continued high standard of air safety? 
I would like to refer the House to the irresponsible action that has been proposed and taken by a number of trade unions in response to the Budget brought down earlier this week by the Government. The thrust of the Budget was to reduce costs, to reduce inflation and to reduce interest rates so as to allow private industry to invest in this country, to go ahead with new projects and, as a consequence, to create new jobs. We read in this morning's Press where the Managing Director of Ford Motor Co. of Australia Ltd,  Sir Brian  Inglis, has predicted that there will be 15,000 jobs created in the motor vehicle industry as a result of this Government's decision to reduce sales tax. We have seen considerable interest stimulated overseas through the share markets and among other investors. Overseas investors are now looking to Australia as a profitable and stable country in which to invest and so promote new projects and create new jobs. This will be the basis for the recovery of our economy. There is now this prospect as a result of the responsible Budget that the Government brought down. 
However, what do we see in response to that responsible Budget, a Budget that is being given much credence throughout the business world. The unions say: 'We are not going to accept that Budget'. The union movement, and particularly those unions that are communist-dominated, already have started a process of rolling strikes to subvert the Government's policy, to prevent a recovery being brought about by this Budget and to disrupt economic recovery in Australia. The waterside workers in the ports of Melbourne, Sydney and Adelaide have gone on strike and this is costing shippers Sim a day. I believe that this is only the start of what we can expect to see from an irresponsible trade union movement. The Government has made the point that if we are to see the return of a stable economy providing sound economic growth and prospects for future development, the burden must be shared by all sections of the community. We cannot have a responsible government working with the business sector to bring about an economic recovery while there is another significant section of the community determined to subvert that recovery. If we are to see the economy run along lines that all Australians want, the trade union movement will have to take to heart its role and its responsibilities to the nation. 
Perhaps I should make a distinction here because I do not believe that subversion and disruption to industry is the response from all trade unions. If we look at the trade unions in which these actions are being brought about we note with monotonous regularity that their administrations are dominated by people who are associated with various factions of the Communist Party. I am quite sure that the honourable member for Port Melbourne would agree with that assessment. I am not saying that the trade union movement as a whole is irresponsible but I do claim that those unions that have communist dominated leadership are purposely setting out to subvert the economy of Australia. They do not want to see a sound economy based on private enterprise and they do not want to see the economy prosper. They are determined for political reasons to undermine the structure of our economy and so bring down the political and economic structure of this country. 
It is a great shame for these people that the people of Australia are perceptive enough to identify what they are all about and were perceptive enough last December to see that these communist dominated left wing unions are purposely subverting Australia, as a result of which the Government parties were returned with their majority in this House. I believe that the people of Australia will be equally perceptive and will identify that the thrust of this Budget is purposefully to bring about economic recovery in this country and that those people who purposely engage in strike action, bans and limitations to subvert the Budget are doing so for purely political reasons, to undermine the structure and the basis of the economy of Australia. 
What the honourable member for Franklin has said is quite right. I am quite sure that the honourable member for Port Melbourne can identify where the trouble is coming from in this country and the reasons - 

 Opposition members interjecting- 


 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! I ask honourable members to address their remarks to the Chair, and the honourable member for Wilmot should have referred to the honourable member for Port Adelaide, not Port Melbourne. 
I am sorry; I offer my apologies to the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  I am quite sure that the honourable member for Port Adelaide is not out to disrupt the system- he wants to see economic recovery and the creation of jobs in this country just as much as every member on this side of the chamber does- but I would be surprised if the honourable member and his colleagues do not recognise that the subversion that is coming from the trade union movement is not general and that it is engaged in by political activists within the trade union movement who are determined to subvert not only this Government but also the economic structure of Australia. I remind the honourable member that they are determined also to subvert his party. These people are political activists who, if they put their names on a ballot paper, would lose their deposits at every election. It is only the weaknesses of the structure of the Labor movement and the Australian Labor Party that have enabled these people to gain any power and influence. I would hope that the honourable member would be able to influence his party to change its structure and the structure of the Labor movement so as to exclude these irresponsible communist activists from having the influence they have been able to have on the Australian nation. 
We in this country are set now for an economic recovery. I believe that the majority of the people in Australia are determined to have that economic recovery and I do not believe that the people of Australia will tolerate these communist activists having the unreasonable influence they have been able to have in past years. 
That grievances be noted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I am absolutely appalled at the hypocrisy of members of the Labor Party in coming into this House and raising this matter of unemployment for discussion. It is absolute and total hypocrisy. We have heard sanctimonious dissertations by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  and the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  who told us what this Government should be doing about unemployment but their own leader is putting up policies to this House that would have the effect of increasing unemployment. The Opposition has not learnt one lesson from its period in government but I can assure honourable members opposite that the Australian public has learnt. What did honourable members opposite do when they were in government? What are they proposing now? They are putting forward policies, as the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  said in his speech, aimed at trying to spend our way out of trouble. That policy has been proven to be a disaster but still the Labor Party puts it forward. 
What happened in the period of the Labor Government? It put forward policies to increase government spending and what did that do? That pushed up inflation, pushed up interest rates and deprived private industries of profit. The net result was that in the latter half of 1974 there were 200,000 people added to the unemployed list. Yet honourable members opposite have still not learnt that gross overspending by the government sector is the root cause of unemployment. What they seem to have forgotten also is that 75 per cent of the Australian work force is employed in the private sector. The private sector can employ people only while it continues to make a profit. People on the other side of this chamber who support the Labor movement seem to think that profit is a dirty word but unless industries are profitable and prosperous they cannot employ people. 
What has this Government done since it came to office in 1975? During the 1975 election campaign we put forward the proposition that we had to regenerate profit into industries so that they would be more capable of employing more people. This Government has consistently and persistently pursued that policy. Now we are starting to see the results of that policy, much to the consternation of our friends opposite. What have we done? Before coming into office we said that in order to get profitability and spending back into the private sector so that private industries could employ people we had, first of all, to reduce government spending. We said that we had to restrict the rate of government spending in order to reduce inflation and to reduce interest rates so that industry could spend money and could employ people. 
We said also that if we were to get private industry to employ people and to become profitable and prosperous there had to be some curbing in the wage explosion that the Labor government purposely pursued during 1 973 and 1974. Again, this Government persistently has argued before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission that we cannot have one sector of the economy- those people who happen to be in the most powerful or dictatorial unionsdemanding more and more wages while other people are continually deprived of jobs. There is a correlation between high wages and unemployment which our friends on the opposite side of this chamber do not seem to acknowledge; nor do their friends in the trade union movement acknowledge it. 
I am not sure whether trade unions are purposely ignorant of the correlation between high wages and unemployment or whether they are just too flaming greedy to acknowledge that what they are doing is pushing more and more people on to the dole queue. That is the effect of wage increases. 
What do we see in the work force? What is happening at the moment? More and more unions are demanding more and more money. The workers employed by the Utah Development Company demand an increase of $95 a week. What did they say? They said: 'If we do not get $95 a week we will tie you up and drive the company broke'. That is the sort of irresponsibility with which this Government has to contend. But what happens? We hear sanctimonious speeches by members of the Opposition who come in here and say: 'This Government should do something'. I strongly advise members of the Opposition to use their good offices with their friends in the trade union movement to bring some responsibility into those organisations and then they will be far more prosperous and they will be of far more value to the Australian community at large. But this sort of thing has not stopped. The trade unions have not learnt their lesson, nor have the members of the Opposition in this chamber. Through greed, through ignorance or perhaps through political motivation, they are still persistently pursuing the policy of higher and higher wages. They are purposely trying to undermine the private enterprise nature of this economy and, as a result, purposely pushing more and more people on to the unemployed list. 
This Government has had an enormous effect on bringing down the rate of inflation. Interest rates are starting to fall. Businesses are starting to become more confident. They are starting to invest. We can feel it in the community and I am darned certain that members of the Opposition feel that same confidence. They know darned well that Australian business houses and private industries are looking to this Government and to the future with much more confidence. Perhaps, politically, it does not suit the Labor Party's particular end that this situation should persist. I am quite certain that the Australian public at large recognises the effect of the policies of this Government and is quite confident that sticking with those policies will produce a long-term remedy for the problems that were caused by the Labor Government, particularly in 1973 and 1974. 
When the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  presented his so-called shadow Budget to this House he still had not learnt the lesson about high government spending which pushes up interest rates and inflation and forces more and more people on to the unemployed list. While this Government has persistently pursued a policy of bringing down the Budget deficit, the Leader of the Opposition had the temerity to come into this House and propose that there should be a Budget deficit of some $3, 650m in this financial year. All that would do is to force more and more people on to the unemployed list. Yet we have the hypocrisy of honourable members opposite coming in here and saying sanctimoniously that this Government should be more conscious of the unemployed. The Australian people should be aware that if, following the next election, through some misfortune honourable members opposite were again on the treasury bench it would have the disastrous effect of simply pushing more and more people onto the list of unemployed. Honourable members opposite certainly do not have an answer to these problems and they certainly would not be the guardian angels and the saviours of the unemployed that they try to put themselves forward in this House to be. 
Why will honourable members opposite not try to talk some sense into their friends in the trade union movement? Why will they not come forward and admit, quite openly and honestly, that there is a correlation between high and rising wages and the numbers on the unemployed lists? Is it that they simply want to guard and protect those people who have the most, those greedy people in the trade unions who want more and more and who are not the least bit concerned about the numbers of unemployed? What do we see at the moment? We see a most disastrous strike on the Melbourne waterfront that has now spread throughout all ports in Australia. What is the root cause of that problem? It has been caused by the fact that 38-1 remind honourable members opposite that the number is 38- maintenance employees at Seatainer Terminals Ltd in Melbourne are demanding more wages, but the plain fact is that they are now averaging $25,000 a year each. They are prepared to close down every port in Australia and throw thousands of people out of work because they are greedy enough to demand more and more wages. Yet we still will not see people on the opposite side of the chamber having the honesty to admit that correlation and trying to bring some common sense to their friends in the trade union movement. I urge the honourable member for Port Adelaide and his colleagues behind him to use their good offices to convince their friends in the trade union movement that if we are to have a sustained economic recovery that will create permanent jobs it must be done in conjunction with a responsible trade union movement that will allow private industry to regain its profitability and employ more people on a permanent basis. 
I did not intend to make any comments about the speech that we have just been forced to listen to from the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage),  but I think that what we have just heard from the honourable member is typical of the negative approach that we find coming from honourable members opposite. This debate is based on the 
Budget that was brought down earlier this session. What we have just heard was an attempt by the honourable member for Chifley to do nothing more than to discredit personally certain people on this side of the House.  His  speech contained absolutely nothing about the Budget, nothing about the economy of this country and nothing about the problems with which this country is faced. It was designed only to denigrate certain members on this side of the House. 
Contrary to the approaches that have been taken by members of the Opposition, I intend now to offer some comments on the Budget which really is what this debate is all about anyway. What we saw earlier this year when the Budget was presented to us by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  was an ongoing strategy that this Government has followed consistently since it came to Government in December 1975. At that time we were faced with the job of renewing and restoring confidence in the Australian economy and the Australian community after the disastrous events seen during the Labor Government's term in office. The Liberal Party, prior to coming to government in 1975, made clear certain points in its pre-election campaign of that year. It indicated that there had to be a substantial reduction in the amount of money and the amount of national resources that the Government seeks.  (Quorum formed)  I am indebted to the honourable member for Chifley for bringing an audience into this House. Honourable members now will hear some positive and constructive views on the Budget, following the disgraceful dissertation by the honourable member for Chifley. He did nothing more during his speech than try to denigrate members on this side of the House. What is more, he cannot even stay in this chamber to hear these positive and constructive ideas. He has walked out of the chamber. I must admit that I am not impressed by the honourable member for Chifley. 
As I was saying, this Government has brought down a very positive Budget. It has followed policies that were started in December 1975. 
Those policies are aimed at restoring the confidence of the community and putting the economy back on its feet. I must admit, as would all honourable members on this side of the House, that we give our full support to the Government not only for the Budget that it has brought down but also for the strategy behind it. We all knew on this side of the House that we could not have a sound economy following the policies that the Labor Party had enunciated during its term in office. We knew we had to reduce Government spending in order to bring down inflation and to bring down interest rates. 
It is a pity that some of our friends on the opposite side of the chamber have not learnt that lesson. Obviously they have not learnt it. What did we hear when the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  brought down his shadow Budget? He had the temerity to come in here and propose to this House that the Government should have brought down a Budget with a deficit of some $3,650m. We on this side of the House know, and the Australian community knows, that to follow such a disgraceful policy would do nothing more than simply add people to the dole queues, It would put people out on the streets because they would not be able to get a job. Private industry would not be able to employ people and certainly would not be able to create new job opportunities. 
This really is what this Budget is all about. It is an attempt to bring confidence back into private industry, to bring back profitability into private industry and to create job opportunities so that we can reduce the number of people on the unemployment list. Quite obviously, the Opposition, in opposing this Budget, also is opposing the strategies behind the Budget- that is, to bring down inflation, to regenerate business confidence and ultimately to get more people into the work force. The Opposition is opposed to those particular strategies. I think that they should be exposed to the Australian community for putting forward such propositions. This is what the Budget is all about. The Government alone cannot be a guardian angel that can wave a magic wand and cure all the ills in the Australian nation as the Opposition seems to think. We can set a strategy but it must have the support of the Australian community. It must have the support of people outside this chamber and, in particular, it must have the support of the trade union movement. 
One proposition that the Government and honourable members on this side of the House have put forward consistently is that in order to get profitability back into private enterprise, to get industry moving and recreate job opportunities, there must be a containment of the wage explosion that happened, particularly during the period of the Labor Government.  (Quorum formed)  At least,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  it has been shown that the honourable member for Chifley has one way of making an impact on the House. I was saying that if we are to have renewed job opportunities in this country there must be a containment of the wage explosion which occurred in the past and which was particularly promoted by the Labor Party when it was in government. It wanted to see wages explode. It wanted to see pressure put on private industry. What happened? We had thousands of people thrown on to the list of unemployed. The trade union movement has been particularly irresponsible in the attitudes it has adopted. It tries to put forward some sanctimonious view that the Government should bring down the level of unemployment, while taking in its own policies a diametrically opposed attitude. I was interested to read an editorial in the  Australian Financial Review  of Wednesday, 22 March, which stated: 
There was a time when it was the industrial movement that most fervently espoused the concept of full employment. That day has long since passed. Except for the occasional remark of helpless regret the ACTU treats unemployment as something beyond its control, its responsibility or even its interest. 
It is evident that this is simply not true. If the ACTU had a corporate intelligence that rose above the level of immediate self interest it would perceive the inarguable proposition that its members stand to gain more in the long run from sustained and balanced economic growth than by fighting for a larger share of a non-growing or even diminishing economic cake. 
That editorial has summed up the concept, the hub, of the Government's economic strategy, that is, to get private industry moving, to make industries profitable again, to give them the opportunity to grow and expand and by so doing create job opportunities for young people and all other Australians so that we can all share in a growing prosperity. This is what is behind the Government's strategy. It is perhaps what is behind the propositions that are consistently put forward by members of the Australian Labor Party. They do not want to see private industry prospering because that is so diametrically opposed to their ideology. They would rather replace it with some sort of socialist system. Because of that they are trying consistently to reduce the profitability and the prosperity of the great private companies of Australia. 
One thing about which I was somewhat disappointed in the Budget- I again put this proposition to members of the Government- is the level of spending by the Government on sporting facilities throughout Australia. I had written earlier to the Government asking that there be a greater allocation to sports and sporting faculties for young people. In this Budget an amount of $4.9m is being made available for youth, sport and recreation facilities, and of that amount $1.3m will be used to promote national sporting bodies. I am conscious of the fact that we are in a very tight budgetary restraint period and I accept that the Government would find it difficult in this financial year to increase its allocation for these things, but I appeal to the Government, when considering next year's Budget, to increase substantially the allocation for youth, sport and recreation in this country, particularly in the higher density urban areas of Melbourne and Sydney, so that there will be more available to occupy the young people of this country. 
I conclude by saying that this Budget is designed to re-stimulate confidence and restimulate economic growth. It is designed to bring down the rate of inflation and interest rates and in so doing to encourage investment in private industry. I am quite confident that if that philosophy is followed, if those strategies are followed and the people of Australia get behind the strategies of the Budget, its effect will be to enhance the job opportunities for all people in Australia. It is only by making private industry prosperous that we can expect to create long term job opportunities and it is long term job opportunities that I believe the Australian people are looking for. I believe that it is only through following the strategies of this Budget that those job opportunities can be created. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Riverina) (5.20)- I was very surprised to hear the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr)  make such a vicious attack on the excellent speech made by the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage).  It must be recalled that the honourable member for Chifley was replying almost blow for blow to the statements made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  about the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  but, unlike the Prime Minister, he was not relying on hearsay or innuendo. He had before him a heap of documents that Mosstrooper could not jump. If any unfairness was shown it must surely have been shown by the Minister  (Mr Staley),  who was at the table. The Minister refused to allow those documents to be incorporated in  Hansard.  I point out to the Australian public that all the honourable member for Chifley wanted to do was to put forward the facts in the documents he had but he was not allowed to do so. 
The Prime Minister has claimed that this Budget will provide a better way of life for all Australians, but there are millions of Australians who would claim that if that is what this Budget is aimed at, it is doomed to failure. This Budget hits hardest those who are already the disadvantaged of this nation- the low income earners, the family unit and the pensioners. It can be said that this is the most unfair and unjust Budget that has ever been thrust upon the Australian population. While attacking the family unit, the low income earner and the pensioner, it provides a windfall for the multinationals, such as the Utah Development Corporation, the automobile companies and the oil cartels. We know what the Budget, aimed at a recession-led recovery, is doing for the multinationals but let us consider what is happening to the average Australian as a result of this Budget. Apart from the broken election promise to reduce taxation, the broken election promise to maintain Medibank, the broken election promise to phase out the means test on pensioners, the Budget places an intolerable burden on the family unit. 
While the Liberal Party claims that it recognises the value of the family unit, it attempts to balance the Budget of this nation not by a resource tax on unearned profits or excessive profits but by robbing the family budget. The abolition of the maternity allowance will hit young couples right at the start of their new family life. The decision to tax family allowances for students receiving scholarships will hit families struggling to educate their children. The cuts in the school dental scheme will leave a mark on children of the lower income families for the rest of their lives. The failure to index the family allowance means a reduction in the real value of this allowance. That will hit the family budget hard. More families will have to become dual income families and this will mean that fewer jobs will be available for school leavers. There will be no escape for the family even when the children become school leavers because the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has predicted that there will be a rise in the level of unemployment during the year, despite the fact that 16.5 per cent of the young people aged between 15 and 19 years are unemployed already. While all this is going on the family will have to find more money for taxation, more money for fuel costs. If someone in the family is in ill health they will have to find more money for medical expenses. 
The people want to know why it is necessary for the Government to hit the family unit the hardest. Why do we have to have a contractionary Budget when the International Monetary 
Fund is issuing warnings about a vicious cycle of deflation? The Budget proves that the Government is concerned about the welfare of the oil companies. It is concerned about the welfare of Utah. It is concerned about the welfare of multinational automobile companies. But what does it care about the welfare of low income families? What does it care about the welfare of the unemployed youth suffering a reduction in the value of his social service benefits through this Budget? What does it care about the old age pensioner who is already behind the cost of living and is being forced to wait another 12 months to have his pension indexed? What does it care about the right of the average Australian to have a job? Each Budget introduced since the Fraser Government came to power has hidden its recessionary purpose behind false promises. In 1976 we had a false promise of an investment-led recovery. In 1977 we had a false promise of a consumer-led recovery. In 1978 we have a false promise of a recession-led recovery. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  has pointed out to the nation the futility of this Budget. He has pointed out that investment cannot be won without prospects. The only investments we achieved were in labour-saving devices that caused further unemployment. A manufacturer will not invest in more production if everyone is unemployed and there is no market for his product. He cannot sell more to a consumer who is out of work or in fear of unemployment and an economy cannot be expanded by contracting it. The Leader of the Opposition has repeatedly pointed this out to the nation.  His  warnings have been echoed by all sections of the nation, contrary to claims made by the Prime Minister that this Budget has received widespread acceptance. Not only have the unemployed echoed the sentiments of the Leader of the Opposition but also renowned economists and even members of the Liberal Party. I would like to read the comments about the Budget of one of the leaders of the Liberal Party, reported in the  Australian  on 1 September. The report states: 
One of the most powerful figures in the Liberal Party in Western Australia has strongly criticised the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  over the Federal Government's economic policies. 
In a sharply worded public criticism  Mr Bill  Mitchell described the recent Federal Budget as aiming at a 'recessionled recovery. ' 

 Mr Mitchell is known as the most powerful lobbyist in Western Australia. He was an aide to the former Liberal Premier,  Sir David  Brand, for 12 years and is now an adviser to the present Premier,  Sir Charles  Court. 
His comments are doubly significant because he usually takes a low profile publicly, despite his influential position in the party structure. 
In a letter to the  Australian,  Mr Mitchell  warned that Australia should take note of the International Monetary Fund's recent warning about 'a vicious cycle of deflation'. He said each Federal Budget since 1 976 had been a prescription for compulsory economic recession and rising unemployment. 
That is the warning of a prominent member of the Liberal Party. What have we heard from Government members in this House?  Speaker  after  speaker  has supported this vicious and unfair Budget, bluffing it out in the true Nixon style, regardless of the harm to the family unit, regardless of its hidden recessionary measures, and regardless of the broken election promises. It is no wonder that the  Speaker  of this House,  Sir Billy  Snedden, is appealing to back benchers to rebel in order to achieve the reform of this Parliament. Let me read what the  Speaker  of the House has had to say, and I quote  again from  the  Australian  of 1 September: 
The  Speaker  of the House of Representatives,  Sir Billy  Snedden, yesterday encouraged backbenchers to rebel on some issues to achieve the reform of Federal Parliament. 
This is an appeal by the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives- 
He said that party solidarity was a major obstacle to reform. 
Criticising the power of the executive over the House of Representatives, he added: 'There is increasing evidence that members and supporters of the Parliament in the community are beginning to question the executive's increasing dominance over the legislature and that there is a groundswell of opinion favouring reform. ' 

 Sir Billy argued strongly for more power and stature for the House of Representatives. 
Clearly, the executive is submerging the Australian legislature to a significant degree, particularly in the House of Representatives, and it has the potential to go further,' he said. 
The result is that the legislature is seen by many as a rubber stamp for the executive and therefore of little importance,' . . . 
This Budget may not be a rubber stamp for the Executive but it is certainly a rubber stamp for the will and stubbornness of the Prime Minister. People throughout Australia are saying that the economy should take an alternative direction, and someone on the Government side should have the courage to oppose the measures of this Budget. I say now that if the Liberals are not prepared to play their part, at least the National Country Party should do something about it. 
Each Australian farmer will be $2,000 poorer as a result of the harsh measures dealt out in the 1978-79 Fraser Budget. The hike of 16 per cent to 20 per cent in fuel costs will add $1,000 a year to the average farmer's fuel bill and the flow-on effect will inflate annual farm costs by a further $1,000. The average farmer will pay at least another $200 in income tax due to the rise in tax rates. Farming consumes 19.5 per cent of Australian fuel and its share of the extra $804m that the Government claims it will raise through the fuel tax will amount to between $160m and $200m over the next year. In addition, the Australian farmer must foot a large part of the fuel bill for the transport sector, which it is said consumes 20 per cent of our fuel. The fuel price hike will be reflected in widespread consumer increases for goods and services, not only on the farm but also in small country towns, and it will deal a death blow to decentralisation. Regional advisory committees trying desperately to attract industries to country centres will have a hopeless task.  The National Farmer,  the national farming newspaper, in an article by Julian Cribb in the 24 August-6 September issue, tells us that wheat growers' costs alone will rise from $10 to $12 a tonne due to the fuel cost rise. Because of another broken election promise, farmers will still be forking out around $20m in Federal death duties in 1978-79, despite the Government's pledge to do away with them. Members of the National Country Party can defend this Budget if they want to do so, but I want rural producers in my electorate to know that I have raised my voice in protest. I want family units to know that I am protesting at the treatment that they are receiving. I want the unemployed youth to know that the Australian Labor Party is protesting at the way that they have been treated. We want the pensioners to know that we are objecting to the fact that they have to wait another 12 months to have any adjustment made although they are already behind in relation to cost increases. The Fraser Government could have obtained the same result by allocating the penalties and disadvantages in a more equitable manner. The Government was prepared to forgo $3 16m as a result - 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. Does the Australian National Railways Commission intend eventually to close the entire Tasmanian railway system? Can the Minister indicate what the future holds for the Tasmanian Railways Division and its employees? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
1 ) Is an area of land of approximately 104 acres west of Millerara Road, Keilor East, Victoria, owned by the Commonwealth Government. 
If so, does the Government have any plans for its development. 
3 ) Has the land been earmarked for any particular use. 
Has any offer been received from the Victorian Government to purchase the land. 
-I would like to follow the same theme as the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  and address my remarks to the same estimates. I was somewhat disappointed with his speech. We have heard some very good speeches in this chamber from the honourable member and, on occasions, he has made good suggestions to the House and to the Government about methods that can be followed to alleviate the increasing problems of unemployment in this country. Tonight the honourable member outlined the various schemes that the Government has introduced in order to train young people to go into the work force and in that way alleviate the problems of the young unemployed. But the honourable member for Port Adelaide did nothing more than criticise every scheme that the Government now has in operation. I think it is totally wrong for the honourable member for Port Adelaide or any member on the other side of the chamber to say that all the various schemes such as the National Employment and Training Scheme, the Special Youth Employment Training Scheme and the Community Youth Support Scheme that the Government is operating have no effect at all in training young people to get into the work force. That is a totally wrong construction. It is undue political criticism on the honourable member's part. I was very disappointed with that aspect of his speech. 
The honourable member, in the course of his speech, said that the Government will be spending $ 1 73.8m this year for apprentice training and other schemes to train young people to go into the work force. I compare the $46.3m that has been budgeted this current financial year for apprenticeship training with the $32. 6m that was allocated for the previous financial year. The allocation this year for general employment training schemes which cover the broad spectrum of programs stands at $ 126.8m. Last year the amount was $87.4m and the year before $32.9m. This gives some indication of the concern that this Government has for unemployment. It can be related to the processes and methods that the Government has implemented to try to alleviate the problems of the unemployed and to train young people for a place in the labour force. 
The other aspect that disappointed me about the honourable member's speech was that he seemed to assume that the only people in the community who have a responsibility for unemployment are members of the Federal Government. That is a totally wrong construction. We all recall the very good and forthright speech made to this chamber by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  some weeks ago. He outlined to this House and to the country the long term nature of unemployment and the associated social problems that must be recognised and taken to heart not just by the Government but by every person and every section of our society. That speech was made on a nonpartisan, non-political basis. It set out the facts. It was a discussion paper. We will all be able to analyse critically the problems of unemployment. Members of this Parliament and people throughout the country will be able to set their minds to solving the problems and accepting the factors that have to be taken into account to reduce unemployment on a long term basis. 
All of us in this place seem to have the idea that unemployment is an economic problem and that we have to get these kids into the work place so that they can be earning money, paying taxes and alleviating our social welfare bill. I remind honourable members opposite that unemployment is not just an economic problem. It is great to have young people in the work force, earning money and paying their way in society, but unemployment now must be recognised as being as much a social problem as an economic problem. While members on the other side of the chamber might try to put unemployment in an economic context and say that the Government should make economic decisions and moves in order to cope with unemployment, we have to recognise that unemployment is a social problem. Because it is a social problem responsibility must be accepted by all sections of the community and not just by people in this place. 
Let us look at educational standards. If we are to look at social aspects we have to look at education. This is what the teachers in the schools say about the people who go through the education system: 'All we do is to train a kid until he is 16 or 17 years old and we don't give two hoots where he goes once he leaves school'. But the kids, once they leave school, have to go out and find a job. Surely the education system must take its share of the responsibility for unemployment because of the way it is putting the kids on the labour market. So consideration must be given to education in this regard. What about disciplinary standards? As stated in an earlier speech by the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh),  discipline in society has slumped to a very low level. I believe that until we can correct this downturn in disciplinary standards we will not be able to offer to the labour market young people who employers will be prepared to take on to their staff. 
What about wage levels? What consideration has been given by honourable members on the opposite side of this chamber to the effect that ever increasing wage levels have in taking away jobs from people who are looking for jobs? Surely we must accept as a fact that the rising level of wages has a big impact on keeping people out of the work force. We have to accept that as part of the social problem of unemployment. What about full adult pay at the age of 18? What would honourable members on the other side of this chamber do if a young kid just out of school, with no training and no competency at all to go into the work force, appeared on their doorsteps and said: 'I demand full pay without training'. Would they be prepared to give that person a job? This is the situation facing so many young kids. They cannot get into the work force. They are precluded from it because of various agreements that have been made as a result of strong arm tactics by the trade union movement. We have to accept that as being part of the social problem of unemployment. 
What about the number of married women who are going back into the work force? What consideration have we given to that point? Ten years ago 14.1 per cent of the work force was made up of married women. Today that percentage is 22 per cent. That accounts for an extra 450,000 married women in the work force. How many of those married women are keeping kids in the dole queues? What consideration have any honourable members in this chamber, and for that matter members of the general community, given to the impact on unemployment of that factor? Surely we must consider these factors. What about the technology revolution? Surely we have to consider that as part of the social change and social impact affecting unemployment. These are all parts of the problem of unemployment. It is not just a problem that this Government can face. It is not just a problem that this Government can solve allocating money, as people on the other side of this chamber seem to think. 
We heard the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  suggest that there should be job creation programs. What sort of solution is that? It is a band-aid solution to a long term problem. It will not work. We have to have long term, solutions to unemployment and they have to involve every section of society, every group and organisation in the community. All of us in Australia collectively have to " accept that responsibility if. we are to solve this problem. If we have a section of society such as the trade union movement or any other group that says: 'We are not going to accept that responsibility we are going to adopt an anti-social attitude', then I believe that the long term effect in the future will be to keep more and more kids in the dole queues and extend this problem for many more years than is absolutely necessary. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Is the Minister aware of a statement in this morning's Press attributed to the Victorian Minister for Youth, Sport and Recreation,  Mr Dixon,  to the effect that the Commonwealth appropriation for sport is inadequate? Does the Minister agree with that statement? If so, does the Minister have any plans with regard to the future funding of sport? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. What is the Government's policy in relation to the right of freedom of speech, freedom of assembly and the right to dissent from an official ruling? Can the Commonwealth Government take any action where decisions which are put into effect by a State government may cause widespread social disruption throughout the country? Will the Minister examine all relevant Commonwealth laws to determine whether any rights and freedoms conferred on any citizen by those laws will prevail over any attempted subtraction from the citizen's right to personal freedom or freedom of assembly by the laws of the State of Queensland? 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 22 August 1978: 
What sum has been granted or lent by the Commonwealth Government to (a) the Furneaux Fishing and Processing Co. in the last 5 years and (b) the Flinders Island Community Association in the last 20 years. 
-Can the Minister for Transport inform the House what rate of cost recovery the Government imposes on the domestic airline industry for air navigation charges, airport terminal rentals and the aviation fuel levy? What contribution does the Government seek from domestic airline operators for airport capital development? What effect does the Government's policy on cost recovery have on domestic air fares? What effect does the Government's policy of cost recovery have on matters relating to air safety? 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Further to the question asked today at Question Time by the honourable member for Lyne, and to the reasons outlined by him, will the Prime Minister give consideration to re-organising the Department of Transport into a Department of Transport and a separate Department of Civil Aviation? 
-I must admit that I was somewhat disappointed with the speech of the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart).  All honourable members will acknowledge that the honourable member for Grayndler has a very genuine and deep seated interest in sport and recreation and that over the years that he has been in this place he has made a very valuable contribution to programs that were introduced by his own Government. Honourable members will also acknowledge the suggestions that he has made to the present Government in relation to sport and recreation. The disappointing aspect of his speech was that he tended to make it party political. Other speakers in the debate have tended to look on this subject on a bipartisan basis. We accept that it is a national program that cuts across all boundaries of party political debate. 
I do not dispute the honourable member for Grayndler's dedication to this topic, nor do I dispute the very good work that he did when he held the sport portfolio while his party was in Government. But we need to remember that while his party was in government it tended to overshadow the good points of what was introduced by the honourable member by its reckless spending. While the honourable member introduced some very commendable sporting and recreation programs, his party left this country in a state of bankruptcy. Any succeeding government had to adopt a belt tightening exercise in order to strengthen the economy. When the present government assumed office its first priority had to be to correct the economic imbalances that unfortunately had been left by the honourable member's party when it lost office. This has been the priority of this Government; of necessity it had to be the priority of this Government. I do not dispute the honourable member for Grayndler's dedication to the health of the nation, to the recreational facilities and the occupation of leisure hours by our youth and by every member of the Australian community. I know that he has made some very valuable contributions. I acknowledge that fact. I am very pleased at all times to talk to the honourable member and to cross ideas with him. 
We are debating tonight the 'Life. Be In It' campaign and amendments to the National Fitness Act. Firstly we should acknowledge the valuable contribution made by the Victorian Minister for Youth, Sport and Recreation,  Mr Brian  Dixon, for his far-sightedness and initiative in putting forward this proposition in 1974. The Victorian Government, using its initative took the opportunity to put this program forward. In doing so it acted with considerable forsight. It recognised at that stage that something needed to be done to motivate people into more physical activities. I think that this is indicative of what we can expect from the Victorian Government. I think it is indicative of what we can expect from the future Victorian Liberal Government. I think honourable members on both sides of the House will acknowledge that the 'Life. Be In It' campaign has been an enormous success. As the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  pointed out earlier, the advertisements for the 'Life. Be In It' campaign that are seen regularly on television are perhaps the most easily indentifiable and most commonly recognised advertisements seen on television. In fact 95 per cent of the Australian population is aware of the advertisements and recognises them when shown. That gives some indication of the extent of the success of the 'Life. Be In It' campaign. I believe that that campaign has brought an awareness to most Australians that in fact they do not represent the image of the bronzed Australian he-man riding off on a horse into the sunset, although some of them, particularly some of the more egotisical members of the community, tend to believe they are. The 'Norm' cartoons have brought home to Australians that, rather than being the bronzed Australian he-men we tend to believe we are, we are in fact fast becoming a race of beer drinking, yarn telling people who have no interest in participating actively in any sort of sport or recreation. As the 'Life. Be In It' campaign advertisements depict, the Australian community is a community of watchers of television rather than a community of participants. That is unfortunate but it is a fact. I think that this Government and the State governments need to recognise this fact in their future planning. 
The present Federal Government, for its part, has made some very valuable contributions to sporting promotion in Australia. I think that that needs to be recognised and acknowledged. For instance, the Government recently announced that there would be an $800,000 contribution to help the next Australian team for the Olympic Games in its preparation and the trip to Moscow for the Games. That needs to be recognised. But that is not the only thing that needs to be recognised. I think that we need to recognise that when the Government came to office three years ago it had the unenviable task of sorting out an economy that had been made bankrupt by the previous Government. That of necessity had to be the major priority of the government of the day. The economic ills of the country had of necessity to be sorted out before any programs could be introduced on a public basis. But we need to recognise now that the Australian nation has social ills as well as economic ills. Commendably the Government has made great progress in sorting out the economic mess that was made of our economy by our predecessors. What we need to do now is to attack the social ills of Australia as purposefully and as vigorously as the economic ills have been attacked. If the Federal and State governments are prepared to cooperate in doing that, I believe that we can achieve the same measure of success on a social basis as has been achieved on an economic basis. 
It was pointed out earlier in this debate by the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  the honourable member for McMillan and the honourable member for Grayndler that we are faced at the moment with a changing social situation in Australia. That fact needs to be recognised and I believe that the present Government is recognising it. Already the Government has commissioned the Sports Advisory Council to prepare base papers that can be used for formulating a national sporting and recreational policy. That is a commendable step. This work is being put in progress. I believe that shortly we will see coming from that work a recreational and sporting policy of which this nation can be proud. But in the preparation of such a policy document there are some facts to which the Government needs to give very serious consideration. Firstly, I think it needs to be recognised- I believe that the 'Life. Be in it' campaign has brought this home to everyone in this countrythat we as a society are now faced with having an increased number of leisure hours. This has been brought about by a number of social and economic factors. Over the period since World War II there has been a movement of the people from the rural areas to the urban metropolitan areas, coupled with activity by the trade union movement and others to reduce the hours of work. The combination of these factors has meant that the people living in urban centres have more leisure time available. No longer are these people in the rural areas where they are engaged in physical activities in their normal work activities. So they do not have the physical fitness that our fathers and grandfathers had. They are now congregated in the metropolitan areas where they really do not have either the motivation or the facilities to occupy their leisure hours and to get their bodies fit. 
We need to recognise that these social ills exist and, by joint effort through the State and Federal governments on a national sporting policy basis, to implement policies that will firstly encourage people to participate in sporting activity and in conjunction with that provide the necessary facilities to enable them actively to participate. But, as the honourable member for Grayndler pointed out, in the process of doing that we should not aim exclusively at creating just an elitist body of sporting participants who can compete successfully at peak level in international competition. What we should seek to do is to encourage mass participation by as many people in the community as are physically capable of participating. We should not restrict ourselves to those sports in which we win gold medals, such as swimming, running, and other popular sports. The program of encouraging people at the local level in the community should encompass a wide range of sporting activities, as long as it gets people physically active and occupying their leisure hours in a healthy atmosphere that will obviate some of the social ills that we have in Australia at the moment. It does not matter all that much whether a person who is healthy or fit decides to play tennis, squash or some other active form of sport or whether a person who is not as physically active or is getting on in years decides to participate in snooker, billiards or lawn bowls as long as he is prepared to participate in a sporting activity which occupies those leisure hours and he enjoys that sport. 
The 'Life. Be In It' campaign has encouraged people. It has created an awareness that this problem exists. That is the first point that needs to be recognised. We now need a program that will encourage people to participate actively so as to occupy the increased number of leisure hours. We need to do this because what has happened in Australia is that people have increased leisure hours available to them but they do not have a sufficient number of active healthy interests to occupy those leisure hours. We have seen a dramatic increase in certain anti-social activities and, more particularly and probably more alarmingly, in the instance of drug taking and a general decline in the physical health of the nation. 
In a letter I wrote on 16 November to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister responsible for sport and recreation I suggested that, in conjunction with the State governments, we should introduce a program that will assist in the provision of sporting facilities and also the encouragement of people at the local level to participate in active sport and to use those facilities. I suggested in that letter that what we need to do now is to extend the 'Life. Be In It' campaign on the public media by using well-known sporting participants who have made a name for themselves, such as Dennis Lillee, Ian Chappell, Ron Barassi and John Newcombe. I could name a whole host of sportsmen who could be used in national television promotion campaigns to encourage people at the local community level to participate in sport. I believe that that is a logical extension of the very successful 'Life. Be In It' campaign. 
Having encouraged people to participate in sport, we need also to make available the facilities for them to do so. One of the frustrations that exists in my own electorate- I am sure that this applies also to a number of other electorates throughout the country and probably more particularly to those in the western suburbs of Sydney and Melbourne, which have large populations- is that the facilities are not all that good. In those areas, and in my electorate, are a number of dedicated local organisations working towards providing a facility of some sort for their local communities. The facilities may be swimming pools or basketball or squash courts. Whatever they may be, the people in those organisations are dedicated to that particular task, dedicated to helping the younger people in the community. They want to provide those facilities but the capital cost of providing them now is being found to be way beyond the reach of local organisations which raise funds locally on a volunteer basis. 
In that context we should recognise that the cost of such facilities is climbing astronomically. In many cases what is being proposed now is a multi-purpose type of complex where facilities to cater for basketball, badminton, squash and a number of other sporting activities can be provided within the one complex. Such complexes are very expensive. We are looking at a figure of the order of $500,000. Such an amount is well beyond the efforts of local fund raising organisations to provide. I have suggested to the Prime Minister that the Government should look towards introducing a program whereby the Commonwealth Government contributes onethird of the cost of such capital complexes, onethird is contributed by the States and one-third is provided by local fund raising efforts. I believe that if local fund raising organisations were in a position in which they had to raise only one-third of the cost of such complexes rather than the total amount the projects would be brought within feasibility. I do not believe that governments should bail out of such an obligation. I strongly urge the Federal Government to give consideration to introducing such a program in the next Budget. If a program such as this could be introduced a wide variety of facilities could be provided in local communities and supplemented by local fund raising efforts. This would have a number of beneficial side effects, not the least of which would be the provision of jobs for people in the local communities to put bricks and mortar together. This would be one way of alleviating present unemployment. 
I have also suggested to the Prime Minister that if we are to provide facilities in local communities we also need to encourage people to get out and to use those facilities. In this context, I have suggested an extension of the use of officers who are provided by the various State governments as national fitness officers or recreational officers. They are called by different terms in different States. Programs exist in each State in which the State government provides officers to encourage people in sporting activities and to help in the co-ordination of various sports. I am suggesting to the Prime Minister that that program be discussed with the States with a view to the Commonwealth making a contribution to the States to extend the program so that more officers can be provided at a State level and also so that more facilities can be provided for people to use. As a nation we need to recognise that the object of government, be it Federal or State, in providing money for sport and recreation should not be to win gold medals or to compete successfully at the international level. That is nothing more than an ego-boosting trip to people who want to do no more than sit in front of a television set and watch others do the work. As a nation we need to encourage everybody in the community actively to participate in sport. 
We need to recognise that sport is a competition, the same as life is a competition. We should encourage people to participate, to compete actively and to seek excellence in sport rather than to sit in pubs or milk bars. I believe that search for excellence in the sporting field will flow over to all other activities in the community, both in the work place and at the community level. When we achieve that objective I believe that it will have a tremendous impact on this country. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 

asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 22 February 1979: 
1 ) Does the Government propose to introduce a national dairy herd improvement scheme. 
If so, (a) will such a scheme involve only commercial bulls, (b) will the scheme be based on a central national computer and (c) what will be the cost per cow to the farmer. 
Will the Minister for Post and Telecommunications assure the House that the manner in which a communications satellite is applied in this country will give protection to existing local services provided by regional television stations against the predatory actions of the large network television operators? Will the Minister also assure the House that the current Broadcasting and Television Act will not be amended to allow monopolistic characteristics? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
What sum has been granted or lent by the Commonwealth to the Aboriginal Fish Processing Organisation on Flinders Island during the last 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Transport, on notice, on 22 February 1979: 
1 ) What was the quantum of revenue collected from all (a) domestic airlines and (b) international airlines for (i) air navigation charges, (ii) airport terminal rental and (iii) aviation fuel levy during 1977-78. 
What charges were made against the RAAF for (a) air navigation and (b) aviation fuel levy during 1977-78. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House is of the opinion that no members of the Senate should be appointed Ministers of the Crown; 
That because the House of Representatives is the people's House and is elected on a basis of equal franchise it should have exclusive responsibility to form an executive government and initiate government policy; 
That because the Senate is a house of review it should be free to review all proposed legislation and carry out its other review functions independent of the executive government and further that members of the Senate should not be inhibited in that review process by also having responsibilities to the executive government; 
And therefore the House calls on the Governor-General following the next and subsequent general elections to appoint all Ministers of the Crown from the members of the House of Representatives. 
I refer the Minister for Foreign Affairs to the Eighth Session of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea which concluded recently in Geneva. What progress, if any, was made at this Conference? Being mindful of the years already expended at numerous previous conferences, is there any prospect for an eventual negotiated agreement on law of the sea issues? 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) How many foreign fishing vessels are licensed to fish in Tasmanian waters (a) within the 1 2- mile limit and (b) beyond the 12-mile limit. 
) Is there a limitation as to the size of vessels. 
What proposals have been received from joint venture interests or foreign interests for licences to fish in Tasmanian waters and for what species. 
Has any proposal been received from any company in which  Sir Frank  Duval has an interest. 
What protection will be given to local fishermen in developing the proposed 200- mile economic zone. 
What arrangements have been made with the Defence Department for the surveillance and policing of the proposed 200-mile economic zone. 
-Is the Minister for Health aware of statements which were made by the Tasmanian Health Minister to the effect that 500 jobs would be lost in Tasmanian hospitals as a result of the Treasurer's statement last week? Are  Mr Barnard's  predictions of massive cutbacks in Tasmanian hospitals accurate or are they the result of despair caused by inefficiency? Can the Minister outline the true situation? 
-The is no doubt in my mind that the raising of this subject as a matter of public importance is a political ploy on behalf of the left wing and communist unions. It is being acted out in this Parliament today using the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  as nothing more than mouthpieces for the communist unions. I think that those honourable members are performing a despicable act here today. This Parliament and the people of Australia might well ask what has happened to those honourable members who act as genuine spokesmen on industrial matters for the Australian Labor Party. What has happened to the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)?  Why is he not speaking on behalf of his party on a matter relating to industrial relations? What has happened to the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  and the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson),  who usually speak for their party on industrial matters? The spokesmen for the Labor Party on this occasion are the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Cunningham, both of whom act as spokesmen in this place for the Left and the communist unions. 
What is happening today is obviously part of a political tactic on behalf of the Left. I think that that is evidenced even more by the speech of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. He referred very little to industrial relations. He made some reference to the Kane case and its effect in the High Court, but most of his speech was taken up by references to economic matters. The booklet produced recently by the Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union- we all know that it is a communist-led union- called  Australia Ripped Off  contains most of the statistics that were produced in the speech of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. 
It is true, and the Deputy Leader of the Opposition knows it to be so. The statistics used by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition came from a booklet produced by a communistled union, the AMWSU. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition in fact launched that booklet earlier this year. What do we find in some of the commentaries about that booklet? Following the launching of the booklet by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition,  News Weekly  in its summary, stated: 
There are no wealth statistics collected in Australia. 
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition stated in his speech that 'there are no wealth statistics collected in Australia'. The summary continues:  . . so, where did the information come from? 
The source of information from which the pamphlet's statistics are extracted is the obscure marxist  Journal of Political Economy. 
Although the AMWSU does not say it, this publication is produced by Marxist economists from a number of universities and colleges. 
That statement shows from where the statistics used today in the House by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition came. The people of Australia need to understand clearly that this debate today is a political ploy on behalf of the communist and left wing unions of Australia. They are using the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Cunningham as spokesmen in this House for their political tactics. 
What are they trying to do? I think the people of Australia need to understand what political tactics are being employed here today. The left wing unions are trying at the moment to have the Industrial Relations Bureau in Australia disbanded. I think we need to understand why those unions want the Bureau disbanded. Certainly, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Cunningham referred to the Kane case and some of the matters that have flowed from the High Court decision on that, but they failed to bring out in their speeches the fact that during the 12 months to 30 June 1978 the Industrial Relations Bureau made 23,868 inspections of award provisions in Australia and that, as a result, over $ lm extra was paid to workers in Australia. I notice, unfortunately, that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has just left the chamber. If he wants the IRB - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)That is not a point of order. 
It is unfortunate that the Labor Party does not want these factors brought out to the people of Australia. I cannot help it; it is in my nature to speak the truth. The Australian Labor Party and the left wing unions failed to bring out the fact that, as a result of the inspections, over $ 1 m extra has been paid to Australian workers. The Labor Party does not want those facts brought out because it wants to get rid of the Industrial Relations Bureau and it wants to get rid of any constraint that might be exercised over actions of the left wing unions. 
Members of the Labor Party did not tell us that the IRB is charged also with the responsibility of over-viewing union rules and union actions and that it can take action in the courts to protect the interests of the community and to protect the interests of workers because of the overbearing action of these unions. That is what honourable members opposite did not tell us. That is what the unions are desperately trying to avoid telling us. In particular, the left wing and the communist unions do not want anybodyany organisation or group- overviewing their actions. People such as  Mr Gallagher, Mr Halfpenny, Mr Carmichael  and  Mr Clancy-  I can name many others- want to have an unrestrained influence over the economy and over the industries of Australia. They want to exercise their communist doctrines without restraint by any section of the community. We hear all sorts of spurious arguments by the Opposition, but this Government has made the point at all stages since coming to office that its industrial relations policy has been designed to protect the community. It is to that end that we will continue to mount our industrial relations policy, regardless of what puppet spokesmen from the Opposition or the left wing unions might care to say. The overriding direction of our industrial relations policy will be to protect the community. 
We need to look at what has brought this matter to a head. It is interesting to note the political tactics that are being employed by the communist unions at the moment. A recent election within the AMWSU for the position of national organiser has really put fear into the hearts of the left wing unions, the communist-led unions and Labor Party supporters of the Left. A communist organiser,  Mr Baird,  who had held the position for some years was seeking re-election. He was opposed by  Mr R.  W. Miller.  Mr Miller,  in the opening line of his election material for the position, stated: 
I am standing against the candidate of the Communist Party of Australia. 
Some 23,000 members of the AMWSU voted and  Mr Miller  won by a margin of 13,500 votes to 9,500 votes. It is unbelievable, and that is what has caused this political tactic today by the left wing of the Labor Party. If we reflect on the election of the. National  president  of the AMWSU in 1977, only 2,100 people in that union bothered to vote. But on this occasion, because a candidate was purposely standing against the candidate of the Communist Party, 23,000 members of that union voted, and they voted overwhelmingly against the Communist Party. Naturally, that put all sorts of fears into people such as  Mr Halfpenny, Mr Carmichael  and others within that and other communist-led unions. They know full well that under the policies that have been brought in by this Government to allow for free and open election of office bearers within unions, if there is an overwhelming participation by union members the communist-led organisers and officials in those unions will be tossed out of office. That is the reason. It is because of the fear within the communist-led unions that this political ploy has been used in the House today. It is part of a nationwide and long-term campaign by the unions to protect the communist influence within those unions. That should be exposed to the people of Australia, and as long as this Government remains in office it will be exposed to the people of Australia. This Government's overriding concern is to protect the interests of a free society. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The discussion is now concluded. 
Has the Prime Minister seen reports that the Executive Director of the Victorian Employers Federation,  Mr Ian  Spicer, has called on governments at all levels to prepare economic impact statements to accompany every new statute or regulation, such statements requiring governments, their departmental officials and their instrumentalities to show clearly the costs of any new action they wish to undertake, with that action and its cost being justified to the community? Does the Prime Minister think that such a measure would help to reduce the effect of big government as has been advocated for some time by the  Australian  newspaper? 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Do the wage increases that have occurred in recent months conform with the Con.ciliation and. Arbitration Commission guidelines? What effect will these demands have on economic recovery in Australia? Is there a correlation between rising wages and unemployment? 
I join the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  in supporting the Government for the introduction of this measure. I think that any layman would agree that it is sheer common sense that the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs should also sit on the National Labour Consultative Council. The Minister assists the Minister for Industrial Relations in those matters and I think that he should be fully informed and be able to participate in NLCC discussions. The Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  should be congratulated by honourable members on both sides of the House for his foresight in establishing the National Labour Consultative Council. I think that the Minister showed statesmanship in bringing around a table representatives of unions, employers and the Government. Whilst they may not agree on particular issues, at least they are given the opportunity to sit down in a forum and discuss those matters. I congratulate the Minister for introducing this measure in the first instance and also for allowing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs to take part in these discussions. 
I think that it needs to be recognised by people on both sides of the House that if the NLCC is to work as we hope it will work- that is, in the manner on which the honourable member for Port Adelaide commented; I am sure it has his approval- there must be a common consensus among the people around the table to make it work. Any forum, no matter what it is, will produce results and have an effect only if there is a desire from all people around the table to make a particular measure work. It is unfortunate that in the short history of the Council there has been evidence of its being used as a political forum instead of as a forum for consensus. I was very disturbed at the decision of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations not to participate in meetings of the NLCC because of the proclaiming of the Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Act. It is unfortunate that the trade union movement took that stance because, whilst it may have objections to that provision or other provisions that may be introduced by the Government or by employers, the Council is a body which enables people to sit around a table and discuss matters of importance. There can be consultation without confrontation. Above all else I think that the people of 
Australia are looking for consultation and not confrontation. 
If some of the bodies that are appointed to that Council adopt the attitude that it can be used as a political plaything then it will not have the desired effect which the Minister has hoped for and on which the honourable member for Port Adelaide has commented. I think that it needs to be taken into account by those who are appointed to the NLCC, the employers, the unions and the Government that there should be a common desire to go into that forum and talk about problems and to make it work. I think that it is fair to say that the reaction at the moment to industrial relations matters is probably the cause of the most widespread concern amongst the people of Australia. 
In 1975 and 1977 the Government brought forward policies to help overcome the industrial relations problems that were in existence at that time. The policy to establish the National Labour Consultative Council was one of those measures brought forward by the Government. But still there is widespread industrial disruption in this country. As the honourable member for Port Adelaide correctly pointed out, people around this country are asking why there is so much industrial disruption and why there is confrontation among employers, unions and government. Why should there be this confrontation when clearly its effect is to dampen economic prosperity and in fact to retard the job opportunities that might be created for people who unfortunately are out of work at this stage. The effect of current industrial relations defies all common logic. It does nothing to help those people who are in work at the moment and seeking to improve their wages and conditions. It does nothing to help young people and other people who unfortunately do not have jobs. It does nothing to improve the economic prosperity of Australia or to provide for the future of this country. But still there is widespread industrial disruption and there does not appear to be any reason to assume that industrial confrontation is abating. 
We all need to ask the question: Why is this happening?  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I put the view to you that better direction needs to be given by the leaders of this country- by the leaders of trade unions, industry and government. Rather than have a situation in which the leaders are put into a position in which they are expected to be gladiators about to take each other on and to pound each other into the ground, there should be a situation in which the leaders of the various industrial and government groups can sit together and talk about common problems about which all of us are concerned, regardless of our political persuasion. I hope that the leaders will then come up with some sort of consensus that will provide a mechanism for improvements in the future. But that is not happening. The leaders in the country- regardless of whether they are in unions, industry or government- tend to take the view that for the sake of political expediency or individual monetary gain they should adopt a role in which they are gladiators and try to hammer each other into the ground. That attitude causes people in the community to lose confidence in the system, in the leaders, in the governments, in the parliaments, in the trade unions and in the industries in which they work. 
This is not good. It is not helping people to plan or causing them to expect that there will be prosperity in the future. I believe that if we are to regenerate the sort of confidence that we think the community should have, and which it has a right to expect, the lead has to be given by those people in the community who choose to call themselves leaders. I must admit that I was impressed by some of the statements that  Mr Hawke  made during the parliamentary recess. He said that there should be consultation rather than confrontation. I agree with that and I think that all of us on both sides of the House would agree with that approach by  Mr Hawke.  But it is no good for him to say: 'Yes, there should be consultation' in one breath and then in the next breath to support a motion that the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations not participate in NLCC discussions. One attitude is completely contradictory to the other. Sure, the statements are good but they have to be backed up by practice. I do not necessarily single out  Mr Hawke.  The same situation applies to the leaders in trade unions, employers' groups and government. There should be consultation that gives a lead at that level to people in the community so that they can plan and be confident that decisions coming from unions, industry or government can be respected and followed by the community at large. 
The NLCC, which was set up by the Minister for Industrial Relations, was the body that I had hoped would provide a forum for that process to take place. It was a forum set up for the senior people of industry, trade unions and government to sit round a table to talk. But if that body is to work in the way that I had hoped it would- I believe that people on both sides of the House and certainly in the community hoped it would work in this way- there must be a desire on the part of all the people sitting around that table to make it work. If there is the suggestion by any of the individuals or groups around that table that they have some mysterious right to be able to use the Council as a political forum or as part of their weaponry in the battle against an opposing group it will not work. If people take that attitude, regardless of what body or group they represent, around that table at the NLCC then they should be condemned roundly by the community at large. Those individuals who adopt that attitude rightly deserve to be condemned. Certainly I will not be backward in tipping a bucket over anyone who might adopt that attitude. 
The NLCC is a forum that should be looked to by the community as one in which consultation can take place and in which the confrontation in the industrial arena can be broken down. I support the honourable member for Port Adelaide in saying that it is a body that should be given much greater recognition by the Government, unions, employers and the community at large because it is a body in which that sort of consultation can take place. I support the Bill. I know that it is a machinery Bill allowing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs to be a member of that body. Anything that can be done by the Ministers who attend the meetings of the Council, by leaders in the trade union movement and in industry and by employer groups who can come together around a table at that forum should be done. They should not only come together with the idea of having a nice little chitty chat and a beer afterwards but also they should come together with a view to coming to statesmanlike decisions that can be expressed to the community at large so that from that forum a lead can be given to the community so that it can have confidence that the leaders in the various groups are at least trying their best to arrive at decisions or at a consensus for the betterment of this country, not reaching agreements that will benefit some group or individual just for the sake of political expediency. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. It follows on from the question asked by the honourable member for Bowman. Can the Minister give more information to the House regarding the provision in the Budget for the restoration and development of Port Arthur? In particular, has there been any agreement with the Tasmanian Government that would prevent that State Government reducing its contribution to the restoration of Port Arthur as a result of the generosity of the Federal Government? 
I noted the points made by the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  about some of the problems in the western suburbs of Melbourne. From some of the trips that I have had to the area I can confirm that many problems exist there that need to be taken into account by both State and Federal governments. It may be a starting point towards having some of those problems alleviated to have more Liberal members from the area who could put those views to both State and Federal governments. But unfortunately that is not the situation. 
The honourable member for Lalor may be interested in some of the comments I wish to make today. Certainly, I am sure that he is conscious of the social problems experienced in that area of Melbourne and perhaps in other major urban centres because of a lack of occupational activities. This is causing enormous social problems, particularly in the more densely populated urban areas of Australia. I am sure that the honourable member would be conscious of the fact that, particularly in the western surburbs of 
Melbourne and the western suburbs of Sydney, there are not sufficient recreational facilities available for people properly to occupy their leisure hours in healthy physical activity. I believe that from a social point of view this is causing particularly the younger people in those areas to engage in anti-social activities such as drug-taking and other things. I believe that this is occurring very largely because of boredom. The younger people in those areas simply do not have enough facilities with which to occupy their leisure hours in healthy physical recreation. 
I believe that from the social point of view and for the long term interests of this country it is a very sound investment for this Government and State governments to provide facilities for training and educating young people to participate in healthy physical recreational activities, to occupy their minds in those sorts of things that would properly equip them for the future. I am conscious of the fact that the Federal Government has made substantial efforts to make more funds available for sport and recreation. It is interesting to note that in 1977-78 the allocation for youth, sport and recreation was $6. 6m and that in the current Budget the allocation has been increased to $11.lm 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member for Wilmot may not anticipate debate on a matter that is listed on the Notice Paper. I ask him not to make reference in specific terms to the Budget. 
I apologise for that indiscretion,  Mr Deputy  Speaker; but I make the point that the Federal Government is conscious of the fact that more money needs to be allocated for sport and recreation and is making a conscious effort in that direction. The introduction of the  Sir Robert  Menzies Trust, the contribution towards the Olympic Games and other matters are a useful start, but I believe that the Commonwealth Government needs to do more in that regard. It is not reasonable simply to take the viewpoint that this area of responsibility should rest solely with the State governments and that the Commonwealth Government does not share in this responsibility. I believe it is only fair and reasonable that the Commonwealth Government should participate, and participate far more fully than it is at the moment. I put to the Commonwealth Government the view that there should be a far greater allocation for sport and recreation at three levels. Firstly, at the international level the Commonwealth Government should make a much greater contribution than it is making at the moment. I suggested that an amount in the order of $5m should be allocated to support individual competitors and teams that compete at an international level. 
I am conscious of the fact that at the moment the Minister is investigating, in conjunction with State Ministers, the possibility of introducing a sports lottery. This may or may not come about; we have yet to see. I do not believe that the fact ;hat such an investigation is taking place is ground for either the Commonwealth or the State governments to opt out of their responsibilities. They do have a responsibility and should not use that investigation as an excuse for not carrying out those responsibilities. Apart from the international level of sporting activity, the most important thing is to get a broad crosssection of the community participating in sport and recreation. There are probably two or three main impediments to that at the moment. Firstly, there is a lack of facilities. I am sure that the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  would be conscious of the lack of facilities in the western area of Melbourne, and the same can be said for the western suburbs of Sydney. Facilities need to be made available. There need to be trained personnel to encourage participation in the use of those facilities and there also needs to be an incentive for the people in the community to use those facilities. 
I suggested, firstly, that the old Capital Assistance for Leisure Facilities scheme that was introduced by our late colleague,  Mr Stewart,  was one of the best measures introduced by the Labor Government. It was well accepted by the State governments and the community and there are very sound reasons why it should be reintroduced. In my own electorate, and no doubt throughout the rest of the country, there are a considerable number of local committees which are working on building recreational facilities. These may involve swimming pools, basketball courts, squash courts or a number of other things. In the main the cost of those facilities is well beyond the capacity of a local committee selling raffle tickets in the local pub in order to raise funds. 
If we reintroduce the old CALF scheme, which provides that the Commonwealth Government will make a contribution of onethird of the capital cost and the State government will make a one-third contribution, that leaves only one-third of the capital cost of that facility to the local committee. This would bring into prospect a whole lot of facilities that are now on the drawing board. At the moment the cost is well beyond a local committee. These facilities are not being proceeded with and as a result a great number of people who might, under normal circumstances, wish to participate in some sport or recreational activity are being denied that opportunity because the facility is simply not available. I strongly urge the Federal Government, in conjunction with the States, to reintroduce the old CALF scheme. I have suggested that the Commonwealth Government should make an additional contribution of $20m which could then be matched by $20m from the State governments and $20m by local fund raising. That would make a total of $60m. I am quite sure that this would have the effect of not only providing a lot of facilities in areas in which they are badly needed but also creating a lot of job opportunities in areas in which unemployment is a major problem. 
In addition to providing funds for competitors at an international level and facilities at a local level under the CALF scheme, I believe that the Commonwealth Government needs to make funds available to the States to engage recreational officers. At this stage each State has a program of engaging recreational officers. If a greater contribution could be made by the Commonwealth to the States, more officers could be employed to work in local areas. Under this program there needs to be a widespread media campaign supplementing the 'Life. Be In It' campaign. I compliment the Government on the Life. Be In It' campaign. This does need to be made more extensive, using some of our more notable sporting competitors. Dennis Lillee, John Newcombe, Tracey Wickham and others who have achieved notoriety could be used as part of a media campaign. If this were done it would encourage a considerable number of people to participate in those sports. I urge the Government to acknowledge that enormous social problems are being caused in areas of Australia by the fact that people do not know how to utilise, or do not have the facilities to utilise, their leisure hours. From a social point of view this is one of the greatest problems that this country faces, and we should all acknowledge that responsibility. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I was amazed to read in today's edition of the Hobart  Mercury  an article which ostensibly reports statements by the Tasmanian Minister for National Paries and Wildlife,  Mr Polley.  The report is related to the generous funding by the Federal Government for the restoration work to be carried out at Port Arthur.  Mr Polley  is quoted as having said that he was pleased that the Federal Government is providing $400,000 for the restoration work in this financial year. I agree with him. I and I am sure the house at large, and certainly all the Tasmanian members of the Parliament, are very pleased that the Federal Government has seen fit to provide that money for the restoration work to be carried out at Port Arthur.  Mr Polley  is reported to have gone on to say: 
However, the amount Tell short of the recommendations of the Heritage Commission and no indication was given for future funding programs. 
That statement is totally incorrect. I am surprised that a Minister in the Tasmanian Government should be so ill informed as not to know that in the Budget the Federal Government has committed itself to a seven year program of funding the restoration work at Port Arthur on a $2 for $ 1 basis with the Tasmanian Government. I think that that statement is indicative of the fact that Ministers in the Tasmanian Parliament are ill informed about the generosity of the Federal Government. Perhaps that is the reason they whinge so much that Tasmania is not well treated by the Federal Government. We in this House certainly know how well Tasmania is treated by the Federal Government. It may well be that the Tasmanian Government simply is not informed about how generous the Federal Government is. If  Mr Polley  is any indication of the quality of people in the Ministry in the Tasmanian Parliament, it may well be that he and his colleagues need to do their homework much better. 
-They do. Unfortunately, it is a Labor Government. The statement made by  Mr Polley  gives some indication of how misinformed its members are. I am sure that my colleague, the honourable member for Bass, the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman),  will confirm that unfortunately the Tasmanian Government is not informed and certainly does not provide the representation to which the Tasmanian people are entitled. I congratulate the Minister for National Development, together with the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch),  for the part that they played in providing these funds for the restoration work at Port Arthur. I know that honourable members on both sides of the chamber recognise the historic and cultural significance of Port Arthur to the Australian nation. As a result of the representations made to the Federal Government by the Minister for National Development and other Tasmanian members the Commonwealth now recognises its significance. The Commonwealth very generously has seen fit to commit itself to a seven-year program, commencing this year with a contribution of $400,000, However, we must recognise that that contribution is made on a $2 for $ 1 basis with the Tasmanian Government. 
If  Mr Polley,  his Department and, for that matter, the whole of the Tasmanian Government are so misinformed as not to know that the Commonwealth has been generous enough to commit itself to a seven year program, I would like to arrange an interview with  Mr Polley  so that I could let him know the facts of the situation. By that means at least he as a member of the Tasmanian Government would be informed of the generosity that this Government has shown towards Tasmania. The Federal Government has shown its generosity to Tasmania in ways other than simply providing funds for the restoration work to be carried out at Port Arthur, as my colleague from Bass will confirm. We are all conscious of the work that has been done by the Minister in having the Australian Maritime College located in Launceston and in having its facilities located further down the Tamar River in my electorate. 
We are all conscious of the work that the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  has done in having the Antarctic base located in his electorate at Kingston. I am sure that all honourable members are aware of the work that has been done by the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  in getting the Commonwealth Government to provide another bridge to span the Derwent River. I could go on to point to the work done by the honourable member for Braddon, the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Groom),  in supporting the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Company Ltd. I am sure that all those people who live on the west coast of Tasmania are conscious of and very pleased with the efforts of the Minister for Housing and Construction on their behalf. What I am trying to point out to the House is that because of the strong representations made by all Tasmanian members of this House Tasmania has benefited. Unfortunately, we are not supported by the Tasmanian Government. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
It is my rather painful duty tonight to bring to the attention of the House one or two of the resolutions that were passed at the Adelaide Conference of the Australian Labor Party in July of this year. I feel rather saddened to think that I have to bring these matters before the House, particularly as that Conference was presided over by the  Deputy  Premier of Tasmania,  Mr Neil  Batt. The matter that particularly concerns me concerns, and I am quite certain, my honourable friend from Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  and all the people of Tasmania, is the mechanism to change the Constitution. What the Labor Party proposes is that constitutional changes will be effected by a simple majority of voters. I put it to the House that that is a scandalous proposal and one that I would term as a complete sell-out of Tasmania and of all of the smaller States of Australia. What makes it even more disgraceful is that that meeting was presided over by the  Deputy  Premier of Tasmania. 

 -Yes, Mr Batt. I am surprised that the honourable member even knows the gentleman's name. The meeting was presided over by the  Deputy  Premier of Tasmania and I think that he and his Party should be absolutely disgusted with themselves that they should propose such a complete sell-out of Tasmania and of all the smaller States. Its proposal would allow any moves to change the Constitution to be dominated by the larger and more populace States of Victoria and New South Wales. It completely sells out the interests of the smaller States. Tasmania. Western Australia and South Australia would be completely dominated by the larger voting majorities - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder! There is no point of order. 

It is obvious from the interjection by the honourable member for Lalor that he does not even know who is the Federal  President  of the ALP. Perhaps he should inform himself. What should be remembered also is that any matters that are passed by resolution at an ALP Conference are completely binding on the parliamentary members of the ALP. If honourable gentlemen on the opposite side of the House, were for some reason unbeknown to me, given the opportunity of coming back into government, this is a resolution that they would putthat constitutional changes be effected by a simple majority of voters, which would leave the people of Tasmania with absolutely no protection under the Constitution. It is a disgraceful proposition. I think the people of Tasmania and Australia should be aware of how the people on the other side of the House intend to rape this country. Not only do they intend to sell Tasmania out in that disgraceful fashion; they also intend to hamstring the Senate completely, the only other protection upon which the people of Tasmania and the smaller States can rely because of the small representation that they have in this place. What do they intend to do to the Senate to hamstring that House completely? 
They intend, as they say, to reform the Senate by taking steps to ensure that the Senate has no power to reject, defer or otherwise block money Bills. It also seeks to provide that the Senate may delay for up to 6 months, but not reject, any other proposed law. In other words, it intends to make the Senate nothing more than a rubber stamp for matters that might be proposed by this House. What the ALP is hoping to do is to render completely useless the protection provided by the Senate to the smaller States. This will enable it to set up a dictatorial hierarchy in this House and abolish all protection given to the smaller States and the people throughout Australia by the Constitution and the Senate. It is rather painful for me tonight to bring these matters to the attention of the House, but I feel I have a duty to the people of Tasmania and to the people of Australia to do so. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time nas expired. 
I listened with great interest to the remarks of the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  I suggest that it would have been wise for all honourable members, both those presently in the chamber and those outside it, to have listened with great interest to what the honourable member said. He said absolutely nothing about the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill. He made no contribution to the debate on this Bill.  (Quorum formed).  I was saying before the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  spuriously called for that quorum- I am grateful that he brought an audience into the House- that all honourable members in this place should read with very great interest the  Hansard  record of the speech just made by the honourable member for 
Reid. He made absolutely no contribution to the debate on the ASIO Bill, but he did make some most enlightening disclosures about his ideological beliefs. 
People who at times give some credence to his public rantings and ravings should read with great interest of those things in which the honourable member for Reid really believes. In the speech that he has just made on this legislation he showed us that he, and in fact some of his supporters, would seek to tear down the political and economic system that has been the governing force in this country since its foundation. Everyone should read with great interest the words of the honourable member for Reid, and everyone should remember those words when the next election comes around. Everyone should remember the words of the honourable member for Reid the next time he is demonstrating in public 
He made quite fallaciously the accusation that the power of a minority is exercised in this country over the majority. How can he make that sort of claim when everyone in Australia over the age of 18 years is entitled to register his or her vote in a ballot box? Can he claim that a majority of people won the South Australian election for the Liberal Party? These are the sorts of things that the honourable member for Reid, in opposing the provisions of the ASIO Bill, would seek to render on the Australian nation. We need to look very closely at the ideological basis of the things in which the honourable member for Reid and his associates believe. 
I think that all thinking Australians would take the view that a security organisation is vital in Australia. We must have an organisation that can identify and keep tabs on those forces, either external or internal, that would seek to destroy our political and economic system in Australia. I believe that our economic and our political systems have made Australia one of the greatest countries of the world; but we need have no doubt that there are forces both within and outside Australia that would seek to destroy our political and our economic systems. I think the statements of the honourable member for Reid give credence to my views on this matter. 
We have also seen, in Australia and outside Australia, incidents of terrorism at which I think most people in this country would be completely aghast. I think the action which really brought home the seriousness of this matter was the bombing which occurred outside the Hilton Hotel a couple of years ago. That brought home to the people of Australia the fact that terrorism is no longer a matter which is played out in other countries and which does not affect us locally. Terrorism is occurring and terrorist groups are active in Australia. Tabs must be kept on them. They must be identified and, where necessary, they must be eliminated for the security of the Australian people. I think that all thinking Australians would believe in that and would agree that we must have a security organisation of that type to protect the interests of innocent Australians. But, in drawing up legislation for the purpose of protecting the interests of innocent Australians, we in the Parliament must make certain that we do not impose on the people of Australia a force that in effect would destroy the very way of life that we believe is fundamental to all Australians. 
It is true that in arriving at a security organisation to protect the people we have to keep in mind that such an organisation needs to have wide powers of surveillance and wide powers in relation to other mechanisms involved with the disclosure of information in order that we can keep proper account of terrorist type organisations. But we must also protect innocent individuals in the community against unnecessary actions taken by such a security organisation in the name of protecting the security of Australia. I do not believe that at this stage the Bill provides sufficient protection for innocent individuals in the community. We must recognise that this is a completely new Bill; it is not a Bill which seeks to amend an existing Act of Parliament. In fact, that was spelt out in the second reading speech of the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  when he said: 
The legislative reforms themselves are so fundamental and wide ranging that a completely new Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill rather than amendment to the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Act I9S6 has been drafted. 
He went on to say that the existing ASIO Act will be repealed. So we are looking at a completely new Bill, not amendments to an existing Act. The provisions that are contained therein need to be given the most searching scrutiny, both by the members of this Parliament and by the community. There needs to be a community consensus that an organisation such as ASIO is necessary and that the powers contained in this Bill are necessary. If there is not a community consensus to that effect the Bill will not work and ASIO will not work because there will be community reaction to it. If the provisions of the present Bill go too far or the interpretations are ill-defined, again there will be a reaction in the community that could well result not in the security situation being solved but rather in the creation of instability in the community. On that point I agree with the honourable member for Reid. It is about the only point on which I agree with him. 
-I think it was. This Bill gives to ASIO powers which are much wider than it has under the present legislation. It is true that the former Government initiated moves to set up a royal commission to investigate what is necessary for a security organisation and what changes are required. That royal commission, under  Mr Justice  Hope, brought down its recommendations. It is true that people in the community had the opportunity to express views to that royal commission. But what needs to be recognised, I think, is that people in the community were expressing views.on the way in which ASIO had operated in the past. Up to this stage, an effective opportunity has not been given to people in the community to express their opinions on the proposals that are contained in this Bill. If the security organisation is to work and is to be accepted by the community, there needs to be an opportunity for individuals and groups in the community to express their views, not on the way in which ASIO has worked in the past, but on the provisions of this BUI. That opportunity has not been given. Before this BUI becomes law I believe that that opportunity should be given to members of the public. 
It should be remembered that this Bill does give considerably wider powers to ASIO. One of the provisions, as mentioned in the Minister's second reading speech, needs to be recognised. The Minister said: 
Honourable members will recall that an important theme in the royal commission's report is that ASIO should at all time comply with the law. It has also been the concern of the present Director-General that ASIO should comply with the law but existing laws present problems for effective intelligence collection. This was recognised by the royal commission which concluded that the Organisation required certain specified powers of intelligence collection and that the laws should be changed to this end. 
After careful consideration the Government accepted this recommendation. In other words, the Government has accepted that in certain circumstances ASIO or security organisations should not be required to comply with existing laws in Australia. It may be the conclusion of the Government that ASIO need not comply with those laws under certain circumstances, but I challenge the Government to prove that that view is shared by the community. If that view is not shared by the community, this provision should not be in this BUI because we, as a Parliament, cannot impose on the public of Australia those provisions that the public is not prepared to accept. If we try to do that, I believe that we wil create a security situation that does not exist at the moment. I have no idea whether the people of Australia are prepared to accept a security organisation that does not comply with existing laws. Maybe the Government is wiser than I; I do not know. But I think that it is rather egotistical of us in this place to assume that we have some super monoply on wisdom that we can presume to know all these things and can take a view without referring some of these matters for an opinion by the public. 
I agree with the honourable member for Franklin. So I put forward the view both to the Government and to the members of this Parliament that this BUI should be referred to a select committee. I think we need to recognise what that would involve. It would involve setting up a committee of this House with judicial authority to take views and evidence from people in the community, from groups and individuals who may wish to express an opinion on various provisions of the BUI. Such a select committee would be required to bring down a report to this House before the BUI proceeded any further. 
I have not expressed views on any of the provisions of the Bill but people have come to me expressing concern and reservation about them. I am not a legal man. I am not legally trained and I do not presume to put forward legal argument in the same way as the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  did earlier in this debate, but I do think that we, as a House of the Parliament, have an obligation to provide the opportunity to members of the public to put forward their views, if they are concerned enough to do so. One of the matters of concern expressed to me- the right honourable member for Lowe mentioned this matter earlier- is the interpretation of 'subversion' as contained in the Bill. As I have said, I am not a legal man and I cannot express an opinion as to the fine points of legal interpretation of such words, but if there is concern in the community, then we have an obligation to allow the people who are concerned about that interpretation to put forward their views and have those views properly taken into account by this House. 
Another matter of concern that has been expressed to me is also referred to in the Minister's second reading speech. The Minister said: 
A further major consideration is the creation in Pan IV of the Bill of a totally new statutory framework for the preparation and communication of ASIO security assessments in  respect of individuals and the giving to most persons affected by prejudicial security assessments of a right of appeal to a tribunal presided over by a judge. 
So the right of appeal is to be given only to most persons. Who are we to stand here with such superior wisdom and say that some person should not have the right of appeal to a tribunal? Are people in Australia prepared to accept that? I do not know. We in this House are prepared to set ourselves up with such superior knowledge that we presume that some people in the community will not be given the right of appeal to a tribunal. 
The proposition has also been put by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  that this Bill should be referred to a legislation committee. I think that people in the community need to understand what that proposal means. There is a procedure in this House whereby Bills of importance can be referred to a legislation committee of the House. This allows that committee to look closely at the various provisions of the Bill. What also needs to be understood is that these committees are comprised of 16 members of this House and that such committees are not open for members of the public to put their views or to give evidence to those committees. This also deprives other members of this House who are not part of those committees from expressing any view at all. It is true that after the Bill has gone through a legislation committee it will come back into this House before it reaches the final stage. But because members of the public are precluded from expressing a view to such a legislation committee, I take the view that that would be a very bad second alternative to better scrutiny of the Bill itself. We are, in effect, setting up a new organisation and giving it much wider powers than has been the case in the past. But at this stage I am not convinced that the public of Australia is sufficiently educated or prepared to accept that such a Bill, such an organisation, is right for the present situation in Australia. 
I think that we have an obligation to consider this whole matter at much greater length than has been the case today. It is true that this Bill was debated at great length in the Senate and that a considerable number of amendments were accepted by the Government in the Senate, but, as the right honourable member for Lowe said, as the people's House, the Lower House of the Parliament, we have a primary obligation to fulfil our role in scrutinising legislation. We cannot simply say that the Senate has done all our work for us. We have an obligation. I do not take the view, as has been put forward by the Government, that this Bill is of such importance that it needs to be rushed through the House. Again, I share the view of the right honourable member for Lowe that because this Bill carries with it such wide implications it needs to be very carefully considered by the Parliament and that all possible techniques must be used in considering the Bill to give members of the public the opportunity to put forward their views before it finally proceeds into law. 
I am not too sure what are the intentions of the Government about this Bill, but I do impress on the Government the need to proceed cautiously, the need for less haste in order to give every consideration to the Bill, thereby allowing people in the community and members of parliament to scrutinise properly all sections of the Bill and the need to proceed at a very slow rate so that the Bill, when it is finally drafted and finally put into law will be a Bill that reflects the common view and the acceptance of the Australian people. 

 Mr UREN (Reid)-Mr  Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I move: 
That this Bill be referred to a select committee. 
I outlined, at some greater length, in my second reading speech last night, the reasons why I take the view that this Bill should be referred to a select committee. I do not intend to take the time of the House tonight reiterating those views. However, I do wish to say that it is my very firm view that on a Bill of this magnitude, which does encompass some quite wide sweeping changes to the security organisation in Australia, it should be open to the public to put views before the Parliament before the Bill becomes law. It is for that very reason that I move this motion that a select committee be set up, because that is the only mechanism that allows people to put their views to the Parliament in a formal way and to have those views properly taken into account. It is true, as has been reiterated at some length during the second reading speech, that an extensive royal commission under  Mr Justice  Hope was held and that people certainly had there - 
Is the Prime Minister aware of reports that the New South Wales Government intends to put forward a referendum proposal that the life of the New South Wales Parliament be extended to four years? Will the Government consider a referendum proposal in conjunction with the 1980 general elections to the effect that the life of the House of Representatives be extended to four years and the term of a Senate appointment be eight years? 
I congratulate the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  for bringing before us this very important matter of public importance that people throughout the country are very concerned about. Before I start the main body of my speech I point out that I have been advised by the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney),  in answer to the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  that in New South Wales the body hire rates are $50 a day tax free. That works out at $250 a week tax free, or the equivalent of $310 a week before tax. Yet the honourable member for Port Adelaide said that these people are being paid $100 a week below award rates. I do not think that anybody in Australia would accept that that is a measly rate of pay. I point out to the honourable member for Port Adelaide that the main substance of this matter of public importance is the need for the Government to reassert the rule of law over the trade union movement. Not once during the whole of his speech did the honourable member for Port Adelaide refer to bringing the trade union movement under the control of law. 
I do not know whether he inadvertently failed to refer to the rule of law and the need for the trade unions to be brought under it or whether he acceded to the accusations made by the honourable member for St George that the left wing of the Labor movement has taken over control of the Australian Labor Party and was simply not prepared to buck the left wing of the Labor movement by accusing it in this place of being above the law. The honourable member for St George brought forward this matter because of resolutions that were passed at the Adelaide conference of the Labor Party. As the honourable member for St George pointed out, those resolutions are binding on all members of the ALP parliamentary party. They cannot avoid them. If ever they are unfortunately given the opportunity by the Australian people to be back in government these policies must be brought into law by those people who are dictated to by the left wing of the Labor movement. 
An important section of the resolutions that the honourable member for St George pointed out is that an ALP government would recognise the rights of unions to regulate their own affairs in a democratic way free from government and judicial interference. I remind the honourable member for Port Adelaide that 'free from judicial interference' must and can only be interpreted as placing the unions above the law. That is the sort of legislation that the ALP would introduce as part of the law of this land. What sort of laws would the ALP place the union movement above? What sort of actions that anybody else in the community can term only as criminal actions is it prepared to allow unions to get away with? I remind the honourable member for Port Adelaide that one of the well known members of the trade union movement,  Mr Pat  Clancy, is reported as writing on this subject in his own Building Workers Industrial Union newspaper, the  Socialist. A  newspaper article states: 
Internal union violence has taken two main forms- firstly intrusion of professional gangsterism, including deliberate marking out and gunning down of a union official', says the  Socialist.  'The second form has seen increases in bashing incidents when some unionists have been seriously injured in internal union conflict . . . ' 
That is the sort of action for which the honourable member for Port Adelaide and other members of the ALP would exempt the unions from any form of judicial action. What other actions do we hear of from other members of the union movement?  Mr Terry  Gordon, Federal Secretary of the Painters and Dockers Union- I am sure most of us are familiar with some of the actions of that particular union- in giving evidence before Commissioner Sweeney when he was inquiring into allegations of illegal payments paid to maritime unions said: 'We catch and kill our own'. That is the sort of action that the ALP chooses to endorse. I turn to a responsible reaction from one union that mostly would be considered to be on the left wing side of the Labor movement.  Mr Ted  McBeatty, who was the New South Wales secretary of the Transport Workers Union, in February 1975 wrote: 
If a union is taken over by an organisation that is not prepared to work within the system, not prepared to observe the iawful acts of society, that union can organise a form of anarchy and capture the imagination of people who might be trying to wreck society. 
That is the sort of action in relation to which the ALP is very purposely choosing to put the unions above the law. The Australian community will not tolerate any organisations being above the law of the land and it is high time that the Government exerted its influence to make sure that laws within Australia are properly observed. But the ALP would not have that observance of the law if ever it became the government of this country. I also remind the House and people who might choose to read  Hansard  that some of these actions and the scenario for them go well back before the present trade union officials came to office.  Mr Lance  Sharkey, who in his day was a well-known communist leader, in his book  The Trade Unions  in 1942 had this to say: 
Communists must be the best trade unionists . . . giving a lead on all problems of the trade unions and lead the fight for the economic demands of the workers; in short, be the best fighters on the job and during strike periods. 
At the same time, politics must be introduced, linked with the union 's problems. 
All strikes have political significance. 
If an economic strike bears the nature of a spontaneous outburst, it does not thereby lose its political significance. If a strike which has purely economic demands as its point of departure is from the very beginning consciously directed along the line of combining it with the political struggle, it yields maximum effects. 
That was the scenario laid down in 1942 by Lance Sharkey, the well-known communist, that is very purposely followed by trade union leaders today. Those sorts of actions are endorsed by the ALP and by honourable members opposite. I think they should take a good hard look at those policies they are endorsing. As the honourable member for St George said, a once very great party has now gone down the mine because it has been dominated by those on the left wing and communist side of politics. I am very surprised that such a well-meaning and thoughtful man as the honourable member for Port Adelaide would sanction the actions of these purposeful agitators who would seek to destroy our society. 
The same thing is happening in Tasmania too. It makes me very much ashamed to say that that State could be dominated by the left wing of the Labor Party or by the left wing of the Labor movement. I am rather ashamed to think that the Tasmanian people were not farsighted enough to recognise what might happen when they went to the polls a short time ago. If we were fortunate enough to see another election in that State the result would be very much different. Since that election it has become well known that  Mr Lowe  has appointed a number of left wing ALP sympathisers to senior positions in his own Government. Also, directions have gone out from the Premier's Office and from the Tasmanian Government to the effect that sub-contractors who are not members of an appropriate union cannot and will not be employed on government jobs. 
As the honourable member for St George said, sub-contracting has always been a part of all government contracted work in housing, in the building industry generally, road construction and other work. But the ALP Government in Tasmania by Cabinet decree has instructed its departments that a person who is not a member of a trade union cannot be employed on a government job. I remind the honourable member for Port Adelaide that that is in direct contravention of section 132A of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act. I am sure the honourable member for Port Adelaide is familiar with that particular section. A situation exists now where a State government has given instructions to its own departments in contravention of Federal legislation. I do not think that we have yet seen the last of this. I remind the House that it is well known that the Adelaide conference was dominated by the Left wing of the union movement. It forced policies on the ALP. Given the opportunity, the ALP will introduce legislation into this place to make the laws of this country a sheer mockery. It would give those people who want to tear down our society an exemption from the law. That will be the future of the ALP. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I have considerable pleasure in supporting the Budget. The Budget brought down earlier this year by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  is a most responsible one. It provides many of the things that the Australian people thought appropriate for the economic circumstances that the country is facing. An indication of how good the Budget has been is the acceptance by the people of the country in giving their support to it, by both individual members and the business sectors of the community. The fundamental strategy of the Budget is to keep the inflation rate in Australia below the inflation rate in those countries with which we trade and compete on the international markets. That fact needs to be remembered by our good friends on the opposite side of the chamber. 
The economic conditions prevailing now are similar to the conditions in 1973 with an increase in oil prices causing an upsurge of inflation in the United States, Japan and Europe. If Australia is to maintain a competitive advantage on the international markets, it is vitally necessary that our inflation rate be kept below that of other trading countries. Policies that were pursued by the Government in 1973 allowed the Australian inflation rate to rise substantially above that of other trading countries; that in turn caused us to lose substantial international markets, which in turn led to a severe depression in a considerable number of Australian industries. There is no way that Australia can avoid the impact of an increase in worldwide inflation, but if Australia's inflation rate can be kept below that of other trading countries we will protect our international markets and, by so doing, will protect the jobs of a large number of Australian workers. 
It may be argued that an increase in government spending would create a short term improvement in the unemployment situation. That policy is very freely advocated by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  and other honourable members on the opposite side of this chamber. However, it should be remembered that if a government is to spend more money, it must raise that money by either increasing taxation- which in turn would fuel inflation- or by borrowing money on the money market, which would increase interest rates and consequently lead to an increase in the inflation rate. It needs to be remembered that increasing inflation will lead to an increase in unemployment. It may be true that such a policy of creating jobs would improve the job situation in the short term but it would create only an illusion of prosperity and when the impact of inflation and the loss of export markets took effect, without doubt there would be a substantial increase in unemployment that would take years to recover from. 
We need to remember in this place that those policies were pursued in 1973-74 by our predecessors and Australia is still in the process of recovering from them. The present Government saw the disastrous consequences that the previous Government's policies had at that time and it is quite determined not to pursue such irresponsible policies in the present circumstances. I am sure that the Government has the support of the majority of members in this place in the policies that are now being pursued. I think it is true to say that the most urgent concern in Australia at the moment is unemployment. We on this side of the chamber are concerned about unemployment, despite the statements that are made by our friends on the opposite side. The Government is not heartless when considering the unemployment situation. But we do maintain that it is necessary to keep some sense of balance, some rational thinking, when the subject of unemployment is being debated. It is not true to say that governments are the only ones responsible for unemployment. In fact, a former Treasurer in this place, the Honourable Frank Crean, recognised the fact, when he held that high office, that one man's pay rise was another man's job. That was a responsible attitude taken by him at that time. It should be remembered by his Labor colleagues in this place now, because without doubt wage increases are a major contributing factor to unemployment. 
However, I think it would be wrong to assume that wage increases are the only factor contributing to unemployment. During the course of my speech I would like to look at a number of factors that contribute to unemployment. First let us look at wage increases and the effect that they have on unemployment. I congratulate Treasurer Crean for having the foresight to acknowledge and to publicly state that one man's pay rise is another man's job. I support that statement and I am quite sure that my colleagues on this side of the chamber would support it. Unfortunately, his common sense did not flow into the Australian Council of Trade Unions Congress that has just been concluded. It was that Congress which very purposely passed a resolution to the effect that the wage earners in this country should be entitled to automatic cost of living increases and also that their unions should have the right, on top of that, to have collective bargaining with their employers. 
If we follow the assessment of Treasurer Crean and assume that there is a correlation between rising wages and unemployment, then the policies being advocated by the ACTU can have the effect only of substantially increasing the number on the unemployed list. The Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  made a statement to the House earlier this session in which he said that the policy adopted by the ACTU is one of the most irresponsible and greedy policies that have ever come before a body of people in this country. I support the Minister in that statement. It can be seen that people who have a job are very purposely adopting a very greedy attitude. Quite frankly, I would doubt that the numbers in the rank and file of the trade union movement would share the view being expressed by their trade union leaders at that Congress. Without doubt, if the policies that were advocated by the ACTU Congress were adopted by any government in this country, those policies would lead to a substantial increase in the number of unemployed. I think it is hot air that we hear from a number of trade union leaders when they express concern for the unemployed in this country but at the same time pass policies that would lead to a very substantial increase in the number of unemployed. 
It also needs to be remembered that during this decade the number of people in full-time occupations in Australia has risen substantially. In May 1970 the full-time work force in Australia stood at 5.464 million people. By August 1979, approximately nine years later, the number stood at 6.415 million. That is an increase of roughtly one million people during the 1970s. I think that figure is very often forgotten by people when considering unemployment. There has been a substantial increase in the number of people in the full-time work force. Even during periods when unemployment has risen there has been a consistent and steady increase in the number of people in full-time work. 
It is also interesting to note that during the 1970s the number of married women in the fulltime work force has risen from 17.3 per cent to 21.2 per cent. They number 448,000. In other words, during the 1970s an additional 448,000 married women have entered the work force. It can be assumed that they have taken a lot of jobs that otherwise would have been available to the young and single unemployed. I do not want to put forward views as to the correctness or otherwise of married women holding jobs but I think that in assessing unemployment the community needs to take that fact into account and to make a very careful assessment as to whether there should be two wage earners in the one family when others are on the unemployment list or whether full-time work should be limited to one wage earner per family. Personally, I think such limitation has a lot to commend it but I leave it to the community to make that assessment. 
The community also needs to assess the other factors that without doubt contribute to unemployment. These can be put roughly into the category of those things that cause an employer to employ, say, a married woman in preference to employing a young, single, unemployed person. That brings into question whether the standards of discipline in the community are satisfactory for people to reach the requirements that employers are looking for; whether such things as the educational standards are up to the prerequisites of the employers and whether other factors, such as full adult pay for 1 8-year-olds, are having the effect of precluding quite a number of young people from being eligible for employment. It is my assessment that the policy of paying full adult wages to 18-year-olds contributes very heavily to employers turning to mechanisation rather than employing 18-year- olds, most of whom have been out of school for only one year. Policies adopted by government and by trade unions need to recognise that people leaving school at the age of 17 years need to be given a proper period of training before they can contribute in any meaningful way to the productivity of the firm that is employing them. It is most unreasonable to expect employers to pay full adult rates to people who are not properly trained. I advocate strongly to the trade unions and to government that we should revert to the policy of paying junior rates to young people up to the age of 2 1 years. I think that in itself would be a major influence in getting many young unemployed people back into the fulltime work force. 
I mention also the Government's generosity towards Tasmania. I think it needs to be recognised by members of this House and by the people of Tasmania that in this Budget, to my knowledge for the first time, the Government has made special mention of, and special allocations to, a particular State. I cannot recall that having been done before in a Federal Budget. The Federal Government recognised the special difficulties that are faced in Tasmania by making specific allocations to help the economy and to develop the State. I congratulate the Government for doing that. I also thank it for the generosity it has shown to Tasmania. 
The honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Ml)  mentioned in his speech the potential of the tourist industry in Australia generally. The Federal Government certainly recognised that potential in the allocation to Tasmania. I thank the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  for some of the statements he has made in his capacity as the Minister responsible for tourism and particularly for the allocation to Tasmania. This Budget year $400,000 will be provided to the State Government on a $2 to $ 1 basis for the restoration of Port Arthur. The commitment extends over a seven-year period. It can be expected that over that period a major restoration program will be completed at Port Arthur. Without doubt this will have a major influence in attracting more tourist business to Tasmania. That will be a major contribution to the Tasmanian economy. 
I also thank the Government for other commitments that were made in this Budget. An amount of $32m was provided for a second bridge over the Derwent River. I am quite sure that my colleague the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  would also thank the Government for making that commitment. Also $6.3m will be provided for the Antarctic base at Kingston. We know how hard the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  has worked for that project. We now see it coming to fruition with the allocation that was made in this Budget. Also, $5.5m will be provided for the Launceston General Hospital, which is in the electorate of my colleague, the honourable member for Bass, the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman).  A sum of $9.3m is provided for the Maritime College. That $9.3m will be shared between the facilities in the electorate of Bass and the facilities in my electorate. These allocations to help the economy in Tasmania indicate a recognition by the Government of the needs of Tasmania and the preparedness of this Government to support that State. I also thank the Government for the contribution it has made annually by way of freight equalisation. That policy has had a great effect in stabilising secondary industry in Tasmania. Without a shadow of doubt a number of industries in Tasmania would have gone bankrupt during the depressed years from 1975 to 1977 had it not been for the freight equalisation contributions that were made by this Government. I thank the Government very sincerely for that policy and for the contributions that will be made to Tasmania in this Budget year. 
In the few minutes remaining to me I should like to make some suggestions to the Government that could be given consideration for next year's Budget. It might be a little presumptuous or even a little premature to make suggestions at this stage about next year's Budget, but I have written to the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  about matters that could be included in the better health program that he is currently preparing. I congratulate the Minister for preparing a better health program. I think he recognises the needs of the Australian community. I think all of us in this country are concerned about the escalation of health costs. The better health program is designed to introduce a program of preventive medicine that will not only improve the health of the nation but will also have a substantial effect in reducing health costs in this country. 
I put it to the Minister that one of the ways in which preventive medicine and a better health program could be introduced is by encouraging sport and recreation. All of us need to recognise that if a high degree of physical fitness in the community could be encouraged it would without doubt have a substantial effect in reducing health costs and the demand on health services. It would also increase productivity in industry and reduce the number of workers compensation claims. It would have a much greater effect than simply providing the more obvious things of enjoyment and recreation in the community. I put it to the Minister for Health that among the things that need to be considered in his better health program is the reintroduction of the Commonwealth assistance for leisure facilities. Such a program was introduced by a former Minister for Tourism and Recreation, the late Honourable Frank Stewart. It was one of the better programs introduced by the Labor Government. I think there is much to commend its reintroduction. It did much to encourage the provision of facilities in the local community. The Commonwealth provided a one-third contribution towards the capital cost of the facilities. That amount was matched by a one-third contribution by the State governments, which left only a one-third share to be raised by local contributions. That did a lot to encourage local committees to provide facilities. I think that its reintroduction by the Federal Government in next year's Budget has a lot to commend it. 
Along with the need to provide more facilities, I feel that there is also a need to provide more recreational officers both to encourage the use of those facilities and to encourage participation at the local community level. As we know, recreational officers are employed by State governments, but I strongly recommend to this Government that it provide more money to the States in next year's Budget so that more recreational officers can be employed. I also suggest to the Government that a media campaign be introduced supplementing the 'Life. Be in It.' campaign. We all know the success that the 'Life. Be in It.' campaign has enjoyed. But I think that if we introduced a media campaign using well known sporting identities, such as Tracey Wickham, John Newcombe and Denis Lillee, it would have the effect of encouraging more people both to participate in those sports and to maximise their own performances when they compete in those sports. I strongly recommend that to the Minister for Health. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-In his opening comments, the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  said that he was totally opposed to the legislation now before the House. I can understand why he is so totally opposed to the amendments proposed by this Bill. People throughout Australia should understand the reason for his total opposition. No one in this House or in this nation should lose sight of one of the resolutions of the Australian Labor Party conference at Adelaide earlier this year to the effect that an Australian Labor Party government would recognise the rights of unions to regulate their affairs in a democratic way free from government and judicial interference. The key to the reason why the honourable member for Port Adelaide is so opposed to this legislation is that the Labor Party is opposed to any form of regulation of or interference in trade union affairs by any government or by any jurisdiction. I think that that attitude is absolutely disgraceful. 
As the honourable member for St George says, they are pawns of the left wing. The reason why the honourable member for Port Adelaide is so opposed to this legislation is that his party believes that trade unions should be above the law. This Government does not believe that any organisation in this country should be above the law. It is prepared to take such legislative action as will ensure that the community is protected against the actions of these industrial gangsters. 
In his speech, the honourable member for Port Adelaide seemed to lay some importance on the fact that the trade union movement did not participate in the National Labour Consultative Council discussions when the amendments proposed by this Bill were brought forward. He seemed to lay at the feet of the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  all of the blame for the failure of the trade unions to attend that meeting. Such a claim is totally wrong and we need to understand that fact. On two occasions, the Minister wrote to the Australian Council of Trade Unions and to the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations inviting them- in fact, appealing to them- to participate in the NLCC discussions for the reason that he was proposing amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. But the trade union movement, showing its usual short-sightedness, refused to participate in those discussions. It refused even to come to the meetings where amendments were being discussed. That is why the trade union movement did not participate. The reason was not that the movement was not aware of those discussions. It was certainly not because of any failure on the part of the Minister; he did everything in his power to ensure that the trade unions would be represented. He purposely set up the NLCC for that purpose. He invited, and appealed to, the trade unions to come to those meetings. However, they failed to come. They showed a short-sightedness in respect of a matter which they thought to be of some importance. Can the Minister be blamed because the unions did not attend? Surely, the blame for that failure should be laid very squarely at the feet of the  President  of the ACTU,  Mr Hawke.  None of us should forget that fact. 
Other claims mentioned in the speech of the honourable member for Port Adelaide should be cleared up as some people who listened to his speech unfortunately may be deceived into thinking that his arguments had some validity. What utter rubbish! He made the comment that some of the amendments proposed by this Bill could be brought under constitutional challenge. He based that opinion on a statement by  Sir Richard  Kirby, a former  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. However,  Sir Richard  Kirby 's view on this matter should be treated with a great deal of suspicion. What does section 5 1 of the Constitution provide? The honourable member for Port Adelaide may be interested to read the Constitution because in that section the Government is given power to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Commonwealth - 
I ask the Prime Minister whether the Government is prepared to consider a proposition that the Constitution be changed by a simple majority of voters. What effect would such a proposition have on the various Australian States? 
I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
1 ) That a Select Committee be appointed to examine: 
the facilities, services and opportunities available to the community to spend leisure hours for the betterment of both the individual and the entire community, and 
whether there is a role for the Commonwealth Government in co-ordinating the activities of State and Local Government in the field of recreation and sport. 
That the committee recognise the responsibility of the States in these matters and seek their co-operation in all relevant aspects. 
That the committee consist of5 members nominated by either the Prime Minister, the Leader of the House or the Government Whip and 3 members nominated by either the Leader of the Opposition, the Deputy Leader of the Opposition or the Opposition Whip. 
That every nomination of a member of the Committee be forthwith notified in writing to the  Speaker. 
That the members of the committee hold office as a committee until the House of Representatives expires by dissolution or effluxion of time. 
That the committee elect as Chairman of the committee one of the members nominated by either the Prime Minister, the Leader of the House or the Government Whip. 
That the committee elect a  Deputy Chairman  who shall perform the duties of the  Chairman  of the committee at any time when the  Chairman  is not present at a meeting of the committee, and at any time when the  Chairman  and  Deputy Chairman  are not present at a meeting of the committee the members present shall elect another member to perform the duties of the  Chairman  at that meeting. 
That the committee have power to appoint subcommittees consisting of 3 or more of its members, and to appoint the  Chairman  of each sub-committee who shall have a casting vote only, and refer to any such sub-committee any matter which the committee is empowered to examine. 
That a majority of the members of a sub-committee constitute a quorum of that sub-committee. 
That members of the committee who are not members of a sub-committee may take part in the public proceedings of that sub-committee but shall not vote or move any motion or constitute a quorum. 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to send for persons, papers and records. 
That the committee have power to move from place to place. 
That any sub-committee have power to move from place to place, adjourn from time to time and to sit during any sittings or adjournment. 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to authorise publication of any evidence given before it and any document presented to it. 
That 5 members of the committee constitute a quorum of the committee. 
In matters of procedure the  Chairman  or  Deputy Chairman  when acting as  Chairman  have a deliberate vote and, in the event of any equality of voting, have a casting vote, and, in other matters, the  Chairman  or  Deputy Chairman  have a deliberative vote only. 
That the committee be provided with the necessary staff, facilities and resources. 
That the committee report by 28 August 1980 and that any member of the committee have power to add a protest or dissent to any report. 
19) That the foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the standing orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the standing orders. 
-Can the Minister for Primary Industry advise the House of the action that the Australian Wool Corporation is taking to introduce centralised wool selling centres? Does the Australian Wool Corporation have the support of the Government in its plans to establish centralised wool selling? 
-I bring to the notice of the House tonight a most disturbing matter in my electorate that has come to my attention. It concerns officers of the Health Department in Tasmania. It appears that senior officers of the Health Department in Tasmania have been advising organisations in my electorate that the Commonwealth Government will no longer fund accommodation programs for elderly persons. 
As my colleague the honourable member for St George says, it is lies. I contacted the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  to have this matter clarified. She confirmed that the claim was untrue. It appears that senior officers of the Health Department in Tasmania have been advising organisations that they might as well scrap their fund raising programs because the Commonwealth will' not be providing subsidies to get the building programs under way. This matter has caused considerable concern in my electorate, both to the organisations who have been raising funds for these projects and also the elderly people who want accommodation for their retirement years. In order to clarify this matter, I contacted the Minister for Social Security. In reply she stated: 
I can assure you there is no substance in this rumour and I cannot comprehend how that view would be considered. The Government regards the Aged Persons' Accommodation Program as ongoing and will determine future levels of funding for the Program at an appropriate time. 
That was a quite definitive and unequivocal statement by the Minister. But despite those assurances, I still have it reported to me that these senior officers in the State Health Department in Tasmania are still advising organisations that the Federal Government will scrap this program. In fact, I was contacted only this week by one organisation which is planning a quite extensive project. This organisation went a little bit further and said that a senior officer in the Health Department told it not only that the Federal Government would scrap this particular program but that in fact the Federal Government is  planning  to have an election in July of next year and intends to use $ 1 m in this program in Tasmania as election bait. That is what the officers told this organisation. What made the matter even more disturbing to me was that the officer then went on to ask the organisation and its officers to treat the conversation as being in camera. I found this to be extremely disturbing. It is a scurrilous, underhanded, malicious campaign that is being conducted by the officers of the Health Department. 
These people are public servants, and yet without question of doubt they are trying to use their position as public servants in what is obviously a party political way. They are trying to undermine the confidence of the community in Tasmania in the Federal Government and to destroy the credibility of the Government by using their position as public servants to spread untrue rumors. I find that particularly offensive. I am not certain whether these officers have been spreading these rumours on the instructions or at the instigation of the State Health Minister,  Mr Barnard  - 
As my colleague, the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  suggests, he is the Labor Minister for Health in Tasmania. It may be at  Mr Barnard  's instigation that these rumours are being spread-I am not certain. But whether it is at his instigation or not, I take the view that he should be condemned for not exercising discipline over his officers. The House should condemn  Mr Barnard  and his officers for causing great distress in the community in Tasmania; for causing great distress to the elderly people seeking satisfactory accommodation in their remaining years; and for causing great distress to the organisations which are working most diligently to raise funds to provide accommodation for elderly citizens but which are being undermined and led astray by unthinking and, in fact, Labor oriented officers of the Health Department. I think that these people should stand condemned by this House. 
