Has the attention of the Minister for External Affairs been drawn to a recent statement attributed to the honourable member for St George that food aid given by Australia was something of a confidence trick for which the Australian taxpayer was the bunny? Is it not a fact that Australian official development assistance, as stated by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, ranks close to the top of all donor countries as a percentage of national income? In view of this, was not the statement which has been attributed to the honourable member an inaccurate and unwarranted slur on Australia's sincere co-operation with its Asian neighbours? 
I was very pleased to hear the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  to use his own words, welcome the extended scope the amendments that have been put before the House I believe it is the Opposition that has misunderstood the Bill. Far from the Government misunderstanding the credit unions and what they are all about, I suggest to the House that it is the Opposition that does not attempt, with a few notable exceptions, to understand a financial system which is not unitary and strictly under Government control and direction. I believe that the Opposition still sees credit nationalisation and absolute control of all forms of credit as one of its prime policy objectives. However, I shall deal with these aspects later in my speech. 
When the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  announced in his policy speech on 8th October last that he intended to introduce legislation to amend the Homes Savings Grant Act to raise the permissible limit on the value of a house to $17,500 and to liberalise and extend the scheme generally, there was widespread appreciation by those who were likely to qualify and by the community at large. Today we are seeing those election guarantees honoured not only in the contents of the Bill but in the timing of its presentation. This Bill was among the very first to be presented to this 27th Parliament by the successful Gorton coalition government. This debate would have taken place much earlier than this if the Parliament had not been subject to certain delaying tactics used by members of the Labor Party sitting opposite. However, those eligible under the liberalised test for the grant need have no real concern over the delay caused. The Government, as is its custom, has given its assurance that no applicant will be inconvenienced by this delay, because the new conditions will apply to all those contracts to buy or build a house that have been entered into on or after 27th October 1969: 
We see the Government meeting yet another of its election promises. It would be well for honourable members opposite to realise that this Government does meet its obligations and does follow the programmes on which it has been repeatedly re-elected over the past 21 years. Furthermore, this Government is open to constructive suggestions as to means by which it can improve existing legislation so that useful and progressive statutes do not become stale by lack of amendment or dishonest through any flight from political principle. This is especially true of the Bill now before us. Once again the changes before the House widen the conditions of eligibility. There can be no doubting that this evidence of further encouragement by the Government will be appreciated by those thousands of young people in our community who are saving towards the purchase of their first home. In a country enjoying the universal affluence which is the experience of the vast majority of the community and where there are constant temptations for young people to spend their money, it is a real source of gratification to all members of the Government that the homes savings grant scheme has focused the savings habit among the younger members of the community towards a home and away from things of a less permanent .and less fundamental nature than owning their own homes. 
It has always been the policy of this Government to encourage home ownership. This cannot be said of honourable members opposite, although there can be little doubt that following the successful programmes of the Government coalition over the past 21 years there is now a growing awareness by certain members of the Labor Party that Australians want to own their own homes and that a majority of them have already achieved this gaol. It should not be forgotten that it is still easier for young people in Australia to buy their own homes than is the case in any other country. Australians have a greater incentive to do this and, because of prevailing economic conditions, a greater ability and encouragement than young married people in any other country receive. Not the least reason for this situation is the operation of the homes savings grant scheme since July 1964 when applications under the original Act were first received by the Commonwealth Department of Housing in each State. 
In view of what has been said by the honourable member for Reid I would like to remind the House that the main objective of the scheme is not to determine what financial organisations should or should not exist in Australia but rather that they work. The 2 main objectives when the scheme was first brought in were, firstly, to encourage young people to save to buy or build a home of their own and to help them achieve this objective. The scheme offers young people a reward in the form of a tax free grant for saving over a period for their own homes. The grant - it is not a loan, as the honourable member for Reid suggests - is payable when a married couple enter into a commitment to buy or build their first home. It is a supplement to their savings. The second objective was to increase the proportion of total private savings available for housing purposes. By encouraging young people to save with the institutions that provide the bulk of long term housing finance, these savings, in addition to helping those who save to acquire their first home after they marry, enable the lending institutions in the meantime to provide additional housing finance for other would-be home owners. 
The 5th annual report presented by the Secretary, Department of Housing, for the year 1968-69 shows that under the homes savings grant scheme 145.642 grants had been approved by 30th June 1969 and that $63m in grants had been approved by that date. Assuming - and we must assume this - the same rate of expenditure in the current financial year, it can be anticipated that by 30th June 1970 $76m will have been paid out in grants and 175,000 grants made to eligible young people. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard 2 tables from that 5th report pf the Department of Housing. 

<graphic href="966131197004153_31_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="966131197004153_32_3.jpg"></graphic>

This homes savings scheme is an achievement with which we can be gratified. Although I believe there still are a few points which require attention and further amendment, as 1 shall discuss later, there can be no doubting that the homes savings grant scheme has been a success with' both of its major objectives. 1 repeat those 2 objectives: To encourage young people to save to buy' or build a borne of their own, and to increase the proportion of total savings available for housing purposes. 
Much has been said of late regarding the variety of interest rates applicable today to certain sectors of the Australian economy, lt should be known that despite the relatively high level of interest charged today on loans of all types, interest rates in Australia remain low compared with those in most other countries, despite allegations to the contrary from the Opposition benches. It should be known, further, that within Australia interest rates on housing loans are low compared with lending rates generally, again despite allegations to the contrary from Opposition benches. To suggest, as has been done, that interest rates, as charged by the main suppliers of housing finance throughout the economy, are unfairly heavy is to overlook the importance of maintaining an adequate flow of savings into housing and of keeping a curb on inflationary pressures. These objectives may not be popular but in balancing economic conditions they are very necessary. Pew honourable members in the House would deny that the current economic situation is, lo use official jargon, tightly stretched. The labour market is well into a position of over-full employment with the remarkably low figure of less than I % of the work force, in seasonally adjusted terms, seeking employment, while in the first half of 1969-70, average weekly earnings were running 9.2% higher than a year earlier. Consumer spending, private investment, and public spending are all up, and continue to give every indication of rising further. Furthermore, one cannot deny that the 'tightly stretched' economic situation is clearly evident in the housing industry and in discussing the homes savings grant scheme I believe this House should be reminded that as at the end of December 1969, 12% more dwellings were under construction throughout Australia than at the same time a year earlier. Further, for the 3 months ended January 1970 dwelling approvals were running at an annual rate of 170,000 compared with an annual rate of 150,000 in the same quarter of a year ago. 
AH connected with the building industry are very much aware that there are considerable shortages of materials as well as labour, lt came as no surprise to Government supporters when the December consumer price index was issued to find that whereas there had been a moderate increase of 2.8% in the index as a whole, the housing group component had risen by 5.5% during the year. Now, of course, this Government is concerned, as a matter of basic policy and philosophy, not only to keep the economy growing strongly but to keep this growth balanced and to ensure that it applies to the whole community, not the least part of which is the home owner and the capacity of all Australians to become such home owners. The very fact that the housing industry is in a state of full utilisation does, however, reflect the success of this Government's housing policies over the years. 
The Australian taxpayer is already putting a great deal into housing and I would remind you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that total Commonwealth Government spending in this field during 1969-70 is estimated to be some $265m or some $25. 5m higher than during the financial year ended 30th June 1969. Of this increase $6.2m is in the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. There is $5m more for war service homes - should I say there was $5m more - and $5m more for aged pensioners' dwellings, while Commonwealth spending on housing in the Northern Territory will be $4.3m above the figure for 1969-70. No doubt the Australian Country Party honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  must be given due credit for this achievement in his electorate. Other increases are taking place in such fields as homes for the aged, housing for Aboriginal advancement and housing for defence personnel under the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. 
It should be noted that estimates for the homes savings grant for the current year amount to a total of $13m. Apart from fractionally marginal variation the figure will remain constant with 1969 figures in each of the States and the Australian Capital Territory. So it will be appreciated that the legislation before us is concerned with at least maintaining the level of Commonwealth expenditure and to see that there is no diminution in the number of young couples, young widows and, now, divorcees who are eligible for the grant. In fact the Bill will increase the number who are eligible and I would anticipate that with the amendments included in the Bill many applicants will receive larger individual grants than was previously the case. In this regard I welcome the decision which will permit moneys held in a savings bank account or on fixed deposit with a trading bank to be treated as acceptable savings for purposes of the scheme if those accounts have not been designated as homes savings grant accounts. This is a significant change and one that will help many young people who have been saving seriously without having had the presence of mind 3 years earlier to open a bank account designated as specifically required by the Act prior to 26th October 1969. 
I do not believe the honourable member for Reid understands the amendment. What the change means is that subsequent to 27th October anybody with an account that is not designated correctly will qualify for a grant subsequent to 27th October irrespective of when he opened the account, so that people who opened their accounts prior to 26th October 1966 without having them so designated will in fact qualify. 1 would remind the honourable member for Reid that these amendments are said to apply in respect of persons whose prescribed dates were on or after 27th October, the prescribed date being the date the contract was signed and not the date on which the savings account was opened. 
The fifth annual report relating to the homes savings grant scheme showed that of 4,297 applications rejected during 1968- 69, 24.7% were refused, as the honourable member for Reid pointed out, because the savings were not held in an acceptable form. One can only hope that this amending Bill will totally remove this large obstacle to young people receiving the grant. It came as a surprise to me to learn that 3% of all applications made were ruled invalid for the reason of unacceptable savings. I was also surprised to find in the fifth annual report that 742 applications were rejected in 1968-69 because the applicants had not held acceptable savings for the minimum period of 3 years. I firmly believe that just as pro rata, payments are made for the amount of acceptable savings held during the full 3-year period, a further formula should be set so that pro rata payments will be made for savings on the length of time they have been held as well. 
Too often - this applies to both sides of the House - one interviews applicants who have been rejected because they did not have a savings account open 3 years to the day prior to the signing of their contract. And yet great numbers of those rejected have earnestly saved for a home for very long periods. For example, if a young person goes overseas and, say, transfers his or her savings account to a London branch of an Australian bank or to some other overseas branch of an Australian bank and does not have the presence of mind or the advice to leave his or her account open at an Australian branch of that bank, his or savings subsequent to returning to Australia are not regarded as being acceptable should he or she buy a home within 3 years. So I would commend to the Government the idea that savings accounts of Australian citizens and fixed deposits of Australian citizens at branches of Australian banks overseas should be regarded as acceptable savings for purposes of this Act. When one considers that 2.1% of all applications received in 1968-69 were refused on the grounds of acceptable savings not held for the minimum period of 3 years, I believe that a new formula must be worked out to help overcome this problem. O'f course, there must be some minimum period and I would suggest that anyone who saves for, say, more than 18 months but for less than 3 years should be entitled to a pro rata payment superimposed on the present method of pro rata payments for acceptable savings over the full 3 years. 1 believe it would nol damage the principle of encouraging young people to save towards buying their own home. 
In earlier speeches on this subject I have advocated that the $15,000 limit was not high enough. I am glad to see that the new limit has been raised by something like 16.6% to $17,500, which increase, according to cost of housing figures which I have examined, is well ahead of the increase in the cost of housing during the past 3-year period. However, 1 still believe that the limit now established by the Bill goes against the high cost areas of Australia and I hope that it will not be long before this test of eligibility is removed from the Act. Admittedly the number who have been refused the grant on the basis of exceeding the limit was only 765 or 2.2% of all applications during 1968-69, but it must be realised that most young married couples who buy a house in excess of the limit are fully aware that it is useless even to bother to apply. 1 believe this is particular!) true of New South Wales and Victoria, where 13.3% and 14% of all applications received in 1968-69 were refused. Comparable figures a year earlier were 8.7% and 9.1% of all applications received in those 2 major States. I am confident that the changes included in this amending Bill will correct the situation that developed in 1968-69. 1 would anticipate that the removal of a financial limit would help to broaden the scheme to include many who are entitled to receive the grant. After all, we have sufficient other conditions, regulations and tests of eligibility in the scheme to ensure that the objectives that were originally declared would be honoured. 
Before 1 close 1 would like to touch on 2 more points. Firstly, I believe that the Minister should have the discretion that has now been placed in the hands of the Secretary of the Department..! believe the Minister should have the power to determine, as mentioned in clause 4 of the Bill, when a child will be in custody, care and control of the divorced person'. As this amendment stands, the Minister will not have the right or discretion to change a decision by the Department. I believe this to be wrong in principle and will prove to be clumsy and frustrating in operation. The Secretary also has the right to exercise discretion for use in exceptional circumstances, to accept as the date of commencement of construction of a dwelling house a date later than the date on which the applicant commenced to lay the foundations of his home. Does the Minister maintain or have the right to say what 'exceptional circumstances' are? Does the Minister have any discretion as to what date shall be admitted? I sincerely hope so and 1 hope that I can have an assurance on this matter. 1 firmly believe that the Minister, not the Secretary, should have the final word, as is the case, for example, with immigration referrals. Much has been said about the decision to set down conditions for credit unions to be classified as acceptable under this scheme. 
Just a minute, Tom. Time does not permit me to develop any thesis on this subject. Nobody would deny t hatcredit unions are big business or that they will become even bigger in the near future, but I would reject out of hand the amendment that the Opposition has put forward. It is not at issue with the points that they have raised in the context of the home savings grant scheme. It should not be forgotten that one of the prime purposes of the scheme - and that is what we are discussing - is to increase the total proportion of savings available for housing purposes. Now, I believe with the Government's proposals the door has been opened for credit unions themselves to consider whether they plan to move away from consumer credit finance and into home loans, and to do so significantly. State law 
limits as in New South Wales at the present time, and as the previous  speaker  so rightly put forward, the most a credit union can lend for any one loan, and not specifically for housing, is $4,000 whereas we have placed limits which clash. Quite obviously then, there will be areas of negotiation - if I can put it that way - only if the credit union movement- -and here is the important fact - is prepared to move significantly into the field of prime home financing as would seem to have been the experience overseas. 
I believe we can assume that the local administrators of credit unions are not unaware of overseas trends in their movement and I commend to them the experience of the credit union movement in Canada. In the full calendar year of 1968 the credit union movement in Canada is reported in the International Credit Union Year Book - and I gather this is authentic and creditable - as having organised loans amounting to $507.8m and of these 54.1% amounting to $274. 7m were in the form of real estate loans while only 20.5% of their loans are made for automobiles. In the same International Year Book it states that of $ 10,526m loans made in 1968 by credit unions in the United States, something like $865. 4m were made for real estate. Admittedly there is wide variation between the States in the United States of America. For example, in Massachusetts real estate loans accounted for 81.9% of all loans made in that State during 1968. At the Other end of the scale, there are such States as Pennsylvania, where less than 1% of loans were made for this type of loan. Obviously the credit union movement overseas is not agreed as to which direction it should universally follow and I believe that in its formative years in Australia the credit union movement here must decide whether it is to move into real estate finance with its inbuilt long-term loans or remain in the field of consumer finance where it will be borrowing and lending short - a sound financial principle for all dealers in finance to follow. 
So I suggest that it is not the homes savings grant scheme per se, nor whether the credit union movement is up for criticism or cross-examination. This is not the case. Rather, this Bill has shown to the credit union movement that it is a time for them and them alone to determine what their future role in the Australian money market and financial scene is going to be. There is no question that whatever role they decide upon it will have a significant part to play in the coming decade. The  president  of New South Wales Credit Union League Ltd,  Mr K.  Miller, said in his 13th annual report: 
The League and the Federation is investigating the feasibility and advisability of establishing a credit union bank. These investigations are continuing but it is evident at this stage that they will be lengthy and involved. 
Now whether this  Mr Miller  - this  Mr K.  Miller- 
I know several  Mr Millers  and I know several  Mr K.  Millers. Whether it is away from consumer credit finance and whether it is starting a credit union saving bank and trading bank throughout Australia is for the movement itself to discover. It should be said that we on the Government side make no criticism of the credit union movement. In fact, we are concerned to see that all forms of credit are made available to the Australian community and in this pattern we readily admit and welcome the role of credit unions. 
Sitting suspended from 5.57 to 8 p.m. 
i  ask a question of the Minister for National Development, representing the Minister for Civil Aviation. In view of the imminent scheduling of Boeing 747 jumbo aircraft into Australia and the rumoured arrival of the Anglo-French Concorde aircraft early in 1971, could the Minister advise whether there is any regulation similar to those operating in the United States of America which would allow the Department of Civil Aviation the right to refuse entry of these aircraft into Austrafia should their noise level be above certain tolerable standards? 
I shall resist the temptation to comment on the censorship matters which the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  raised. IT I could take a word out of the speech of the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry),  I think the honourable member for Wilmot is a pretty hard act to follow. I hope we will have the opportunity in this House one day to debate at length the whole subject of censorship so that it can be discussed in some form of totality and in context. I do not agree with the honourable member for Wilmot that censorship can be viewed as if looking at a black and white film; there are no blacks and there are no whites in the subject. I believe it is not an easy subject to discuss in public unless the whole subject is covered at some length. 
I join in the congratulations that have come forth to the Government since this legislation was brought before the House. Once again we are seeing the implementation of policies laid down by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  on 8th October last. More importantly, and as mentioned in the Governor-General's Speech, we are seeing a clear demonstration of the willingness of the Gorton Government to foster and develop Australia's performing arts. As all honourable members will know, the Government, acting on the recommendation of the Australian Council for the Arts, established an interim council to investigate and report on the best way of setting up a national film and television training school. For this purpose I believe $100,000 was allocated while another $200,000 has already been allocated for experimental film making. Of course it is still early days as far as their experimental work is concerned but nobody would deny the need for such experimentation in a country where so much pioneering film making took place and where over the past generation or two the Australian film industry has fallen away from commercial importance and, I am told by those who have persevered in the industry, away from commercial profit as well. 
For example, there is an Australian film showing in Sydney at the moment which clearly illustrates the great, if not the crying, need for development away from and above the standards that this film has created. It is pleasing then to know that the Corporation to be established by the Bill before the House will seek, and I now quote from the second reading speech of the Prime Minister: 
To encourage the production of films which are box office successes and which have those excellences of production, camera work and technical presentation which justify the description 'high quality'. 
Now we are all aware of the keen interest of Prime Minister Gorton in fostering all forms of artistic and cultural development and in the February newsletter of the Australian Film Council it was pleasing to note that in its opinion - that is, the industry itself - he was the first Australian Prime Minister to acknowledge the existence of an Australian film industry. I have no doubt this fact is well and loudly acknowledged by all branches of the Australian performing arts. 
It is not my intention to repeat what has already been said by honourable members on both sides of the House who have already spoken. We would all agree the standard of speeches has been very high, particularly the speech of the honourable member for Franklin. The figures quoted and the articles to which reference has been made have obviously been read by all of us and I do not intend to repeat them. But I believe that there are signs that the Australian film industry has not disappeared forever. For example,  Mr John  McCallum,  President  of the Australian Film Council and a man of great yet diverse achievements in the film industry throughout the English speaking world, said in a letter to the Australian Financial Review dated 14th April 1970: 
Most of the 15,000 members we represent have been working tenaciously for some time to make films under conditions which are more difficult than those confronting other industries - legislation more honoured in the breach than the observance, restrictive marketing practices, no Government help (until recently) and no tariff protection (except in the case of advertising films for television . . . 
He goes on to say: 
Far from having 'a record of almost unmitigated disaster' - 
That suggestion had been made by this newspaper:  . . Australian films, considering the conditions under which they were made and marketed, have a creditable history. 

 Mr McCallum goes on to quote the success of 'They're a Weird Mob', and several television films and firmly refutes the somewhat cynical editorial comment of the Australian Financial Review' of 8th April 1970 which I believe the House should hear. It says, referring to this legislation: 
The Government certainly put a considerable degree of effort into diagnosing the film industry's ills and is now prepared to back its judgment with fairly large injections of funds . . . But instead of building on this basis, the Government should mercifully perform euthanasia and start from scratch with untried but ambitious raw human material which has the capacity for growth. 
I believe it would be a sad day if this advice were followed by any Government and by any Party and I can assure the editor of this newspaper that it will never be the policy of this Government to destroy any art form which can develop Australia into a mature nation. As the legislation shows, it is the intention of the Government - and I am pleased to see it has the support of the Opposition - to promote whenever and however it can all art forms, and our achievements clearly show this. 
Much has been said by the Opposition and the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  in particular, about the great development of indigenous film industries in such comparable countries as Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Finland, France and Japan. I would not deny the achievements of these countries; but each of these countries by dint of its indigenous language has not been subject to the same pressures from the United States of America and the United Kingdom as we who are predominantly English speaking have been. I am certain we would all agree we must have a local film industry as far as we can achieve it, but we must never forget the economics of the film industry have been such that it has been cheaper to bring everything in from overseas. I am pleased to see we have reached the stage in our development when we are doing something to stop this movement. As the honourable member for Franklin showed in his speech - and I agree - any film industry must show itself to be financially viable. After all, Australian productions are not always going to achieve the success of 'Age of Consent', if it can be called Australian, or 'You Can't See Round Corners'. In fact, it is hard to see how such poor films as 'The Set' which is showing in Sydney now are exhibited let alone achieve financial return for the makers. If our Australian industry does not produce films that will be seen and accepted by the Australian or overseas audiences then we would be wasting our time in trying to put life and vigour back into the Australian film industry. The Prime Minister stated in his second reading speech: 
The fund to be established under this Bill is not intended as a give-away project. 
Because of this, I believe that the Bill will be an inspiration to the film industry. 
Again, I would quote from the letter written by John McCallum to the 'Australian Financial Review'. He said: 
To quibble about what  Mr Gorton  left out cf his very good speech announcing the Film Development Corporation is puristic nonsense.  His  words excellence of production' imply in themselves creative imagination' and 'originality'. 

 Mr McCallum went on to say: 
We are very grateful to  Mr Gorton  for what he has done, and for what we hope he will do. 
I do not intend to take up much more of the time of the House. But I wish to comment on one aspect of the Bill which has brought comment from both sides of the House. This relates to the composition of the Corporation. First, I think it should be known and stated that the fact that we are not having persons on the Corporation who have a pecuniary, interest in film production is in line with the policy which we established when we created the Commonwealth Banking Corporation and the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation. So there is nothing unique in this proposal. I believe that it is a principle that we should follow. After all, the idea of this Bill is to establish a fund and a corporation which will encourage a joint effort. 
We must remain very, very careful that we never have a situation in which members of the Corporation could be accused of conflict of interests. It may be well for us now to say that we should have people from the industry in the Corporation. But I venture to say that, as the Corporation progresses, if we do not stand by this principle we will be hearing comments and criticisms about the conflict of interests of people who are on the Corporation. I also wish to comment on the proposal that the members of the Corporation are to hold office for a period of 5 years. I think that if the period had been anything less than 5 years their time as members of the Corporation would not have allowed them any opportunity to develop their own thoughts. 
The history of the film industry in Australia has been covered totally in this debate. The comparison with overseas has been covered fully. I look forward to the day when we will be able to produce in Australia low-cost films that achieve the excellence of films that are now doing the rounds, such as 'The Whisperers'. I would hope that, within the next 10 years, we may see coming out of Australia films of the same standard as those which came out of Great Britain during and after the Second World War. If we can achieve films of the excellence, calibre, quality and standard of 'Brief Encounter' or 'This Happy Breed', though they may seem corny and somewhat out of date now, I believe that the whole business of this Bill will have been worth while. I commend not just the Government on this occasion. I think that this Bill  -  I was pleased to hear that this was also noted by one of the members of the Opposition - is a commendation of the Prime Minister himself for having personally brought it into the House. I wish the Australian Film Development Corporation every success when it comes into operation. 
At a time when there is a world wide awakening to the growing requirement to understand and exploit to the advantage of mankind the full bounty of the sea, the Gorton Government is to be congratulated on its timely action in establishing an Institute of Marine Science in Townsville. For too long we have been forced to think of and marvel at the mysteries of the seas, and it is not before time that there has been an international realisation that we should think of the oceans not only as the bounding main but as a source from which and by which many of mankind's current and continuing problems can be alleviated. Nevertheless, there will always be mystery surrounding the seas, which man may never control even though his understanding of them improves. 
In establishing the Marine Institute in Townsville the Government is not only following the recent example of the United States of America, France, Great Britain and Germany; it is acclaiming that Australia is indeed an extremely marine oriented nation. Not only does the vast proportion of our population live within and enjoy the environs of the several oceans which skirt our continent but, in being one of the world's great trading nations, we have become more than ordinarily concerned with the waterways of the world as a means of communication, transportation and survival. So in 1970 we must remain concerned to see that the waterways which play such a vital role in giving us the means of maintaining a flourishing economy and high standard of living are secure for free trade and movement and protected from international pirating and lawlessness. In a sentence, we must maintain and develop a national concern about our oceanic activities to see that they are directly correlated to the needs and aspirations of the Australian community. 
In his second reading speech, the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  who is sitting at the table, neatly described the Government's reasons for establishing the Marine Institute. I was pleased to note that he saw the Institute as being 'a national centre that will conduct research itself and give encouragement to valuable studies conducted elsewhere concerned with both biological and physical aspects of marine science'. It is most important that the scope and the terms of reference of the Marine Institute should neither be limited nor be such that they will duplicate or replace any of the valuable work that is already being accomplished by such organisations as the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, the universities or the State governments. However, the members of the Interim Council, as announced by the Minister, are a most distinguished panel. In fact it would be fair to say that, with their diverse professional activities in the field of marine science and their individual pre-eminence within their respective disciplines, no more appropriate group of marine scientists could have been brought together. Nevertheless, I do commend to them the need to look at their brief in the broadest possible terms and to establish the unshakeable principle that the Townsville Institute will not become the sole base for nationwide research, experiments and development. 
There can be no denying that Townsville should become one of the great centres of marine studies in the world and may well rank with the world's best once it is under way. But I hope that the Interim Council will not only follow the wide terms of reference which the Minister gave in this House on 4th March but further that it will consider widening its investigation to include some of the features which have been included in similar legislation overseas. For example, the United States of America has a Marine Sciences Act of 1966. A year or so ago the then Vice-President of the United States,  Mr H.  H. Humphrey, in one of his last official acts as such, reported to his  President  on the activities of the National Council on Marine Resources and Engineering Development which was established under that Act. The Vice-President's report stated that the Marine Council had: 
Endeavoured to- 
relate our ocean activities more directly to the needs and aspirations of our people; 
widen the opportunities for economic growth, world order, and enhanced quality of living for all citizens, by bringing marine sciences more directly into the mainstream of public policy; 
foster the transition from scientific study of the ocean to. intensified application of scientific discoveries and higher level policy concerned; 
clarify government-wide policies, priorities, and milestones and selectively advance priority programmes such as international cooperation,, the War on Hunger, Coastal Zone planning and management, and the Sea Grant Programme; 
focus the resources of eleven Federal agencies toward common objectives, through improved internal management; and 
reduce institutional impediments that retard effective development of marine resources. 
Subsequent to this report President Lyndon Johnson sought $528m for the activities of the Marine Council in the 1970 financial year, because, as he put it, Americans 'must take bold and imaginative steps to enable this and future generations to enjoy the full bounty of the sea'. And if this is true of the United States, as I believe it is, then this sentiment must stand with equal force here in Australia. 
Quite obviously, the role of the new Institute should not be seen as being limited to any one activity. Most of us in this Parliament will be very much aware of the nationwide interest in saving the natural beauty and wonders of the Great Barrier Reef. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  told us in his policy speech on 8th October last: 
Research in the area of the Great Barrier Reef will be one of the first priorities of the Institute. 
Nobody will deny the need for collective action, both scientifically and politically, to achieve the goal of saving the Barrier Reef from all predators. As honourable members are aware, this problem has been the subject of widespread investigation already, particularly by the Queensland Department of Primary Industries, the Queensland University, the CSIRO and Commonwealth departments. 
However, the most important investigation has been made by the committee established by the Australian Academy of Science, 3 members of which committee are appointees to the Interim Council as named in the Bill before the House. It is significant that, in its report to consider the reported widespread destruction of the Great Barrier Reef, the committee 'emphasised that the plague of crown of thorns starfish is widespread throughout the Indian and Pacific oceans and that there has been serious destruction of live coral in scattered areas throughout these oceans'. It further agreed that more information must first be obtained about the biology, ecology and hydrology and other aspects of the Great Barrier Reef. In fact the committee suggested 13 specific areas of research which called for long term co-ordination as well as short term experimentation with protective measures to combat plagues of the crown of thorns starfish. It is important to remember that they were not able to come up with any specific solution. If this distinguished body of marine scientists could not make such a suggestion on the general problem of protecting all the Reef one can logically assume that the suggested areas of research mentioned in their report will constitute much of the original work of the new Marine Institute. 
But I again repeat the need for the Interim Council to make certain that the scope of the Townsville Institute has to be very much wider than protecting the Barrier Reef. Obviously, the acanthaster planci is a problem beyond the confines of the Barrier Reef. I would like to think that all investigations by the various Australian organisations will not only be co-ordinated per se but will also be part of an international investigation of what we presently regard as a pest of the seas. 
There would be few, if any. members in this House today who would dispute the wisdom of choosing Townsville as the site for the Marine Institute. I believe that the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  must be given the credit for having the Government make this decision. The honourable member is well known for his advocacy of the north and its claims for involvement in national activities. I know from personal visits to his area that the residents of North Queensland have many reasons to be grateful for their active federal member and his work on their behalf. To ensure that the members of the Interim Council will be fully alive to the necessity for collective action, both internationally and within Australia, I would hope that there will be included in the Budget Estimates later this year sufficient funds to facilitate visits by all the Council members to all the major marine institutes around the world. After all. if the Twentysixth Parliament could send a committee around the world to look at other houses of parliament then it should not be beyond the resources or the wit of the Twentyseventh Parliament to send 7 marine scientists on an equally important tour of discovery. Whether this type of expenditure is considered or not, I believe that the funds to be placed at the disposal of the Interim Council should be of generous proportion and fully adequate for this professional panel to perform professionally their most important of tasks for the future of Australia. If we do not start off on the right foot, because of unnecessary restriction on expenses relative to preliminary investigations, then we could well be frittering away the golden opportunity that is contained in the legislation before the House. 
The Prime Minister, in his policy speech, mentioned that the capital cost of the Marine Institute would approximate $3m. This sounds a sensible figure. But if the Institute is to become the centre of excellence, as the Prime Minister predicts, then adequate funds must also be made available for preliminary work and investigation. As the Minister mentioned in his second reading speech, this Bill 'makes formal provision for detailed planning of its functions and powers'. As I have mentioned previously, a considerable amount of valuable work is already being accomplished in marine geoscience in Australia. It was revealed at the Occanology International 1969 Conference in Britain a year ago that, in terms of fundamental study, interest in marine geoscience extended to all 14 Australian universities and university colleges. However, the two biggest existing oceanographic organisations in Australia are the Division of Fisheries and Oceanography of the CSIRO at Cronulla and the Royal Australian Navy. The former is in my electorate and is only a short distance away from my residence. It employs 113 professional people and it is the centre of the research into the prawning industry, amongst other industries, in Australian waters. I would hope that the Interim Council does not see its way to recommending the transfer of this unit to Townsville and that any suggestion of such a move will not be allowed to retard the already announced plans to extend the research facilities at Cronulla. 
The work of the Royal Australian Navy in oceanographic research is well known and the decision 2 years ago to design a specially built ocean science ship was proof that the Liberal-Country Party Government is concerned with the development of marine studies. Of course, the Royal Australian Navy has been concerned with defence matters but as so much of its research can be applied to civil marine science and technology I would hope that the Interim Council will be giving much thought to co-ordinating the efforts of the Royal Australian Navy and that the Royal Australian Navy in turn will be as cooperative as security will permit. 
Recently the annual conference of the Australian Marine Sciences Association was told by its  President, Mr R.  C. Sprigg, that there was 'a transcending need to establish a clearer dialogue between governments, research and industry'.  Mr Sprigg  went on to say that the seas were not being exploited sufficiently to feed the world and that there was a great need to investigate animal life cf the seas. This view was repeated by Germany's Federal Republic Oceanography Commission which also saw the need for exploitation of food reserves in the sea and, co-incidentally, the requirement that industry will play an increasingly important role in marine research. So I again make a suggestion to the Interim Council that it should include in its charter such provisions as will encourage industry to participate in marine research in Australia alongside the Institute and the universities. 
Coming as I do from an electorate which is almost completely surrounded by water and which has one of the largest shorelines of any Australian electorate, I am most anxious to see that the Marine Institute applies itself with enthusiasm to conservation of the Australian coast and overcoming water pollution and its revolting effects. There is scarcely a day passes that I am not made aware of the need not only to conserve but to improve the beaches that are part of Bate Bay. From Cronulla to Boat Harbour one is constantly aware of beach erosion and one is even more aware of the fact that none of the experts is prepared to say exactly what causes it. Some experts blame it on the concrete promenades which were built 30 years ago; others on the high-rise units that have been built on the waters edge during the past decade; while others blame the erosion on the regrettable removal of sand from the natural and once extensive Cronulla sand hills. The University of New South Wales has tried to help, the Sutherland Shire Council has turned its attention to it, but nobody can say with real certainty what Causes the beaches to disappear. Canute thought he had the answer by assuming his sovereignty over all he could see. But in Cronulla, and I know in many other beaches pound Australia, the sands run out and do not come back. If there was an area for urgent investigation by the Marine Institute it is in the field of hydrology and the implementation Of a conservation scheme, not only for Cronulla's beaches - important and beautiful «ft they are - but for all the beaches around the beautiful Australian coastline. For if we do not get some objective research put into this field we could well finish with no beaches before anybody can learn why the erosion occurs and where the financial responsibility of this conservation rests. One thing is certain: Local councils cannot be asked to assume this financial burden for all time. 
When reading through the White Paper on Marine Science and Technology which was presented to the United Kingdom Government in April 1969 one noticed a lot of space was given to pollution control and, more particularly, to sewage pollution of the seas. Again I would like to draw attention to the health hazards that are experienced by many surfers who use the beaches around our urban areas. Apart from having less beach to come back to, surfing loses a lot of its aesthetic charm and attraction when one is conscious of sharing a wave with what the scientists refer to, somewhat pointedly, as solid waste. I know there is no need to remind the honourable member whose electorate also boasts beaches almost as beautiful as Cronulla that an experience I have just described certainly takes the joy out of our national sport, surfing. It would be amusing if it was not so serious a matter. Premier Askin is to be congratulated on his recent decisions to spend large sums on communition as well as the construction and siting of longer outfalls for sewage discharge into the sea. But the tragedy of this pollution of man's environment by himself is the lack of research that has gone into this aspect of pollution. If it is that this problem has been fully researched and not put into practice then it is all the more serious and all the more reason for the Marine Institute to establish close lines of liaison with government and industry in all that it undertakes. It should see that all of its findings are quickly communicated to all interested parties so that the value of its research can be the more quickly put into practice for the advantage of all. 
The final suggestion I would like to make to the Interim Council at this time relates to legal problems that will surround this area of activity. It does not lie within the scope of this debate to discuss the legal problems surrounding the sea. Nor, I fancy, does it lie within the competence of the members of the Interim Council properly to interpret international law as it relates to the sea and as it is developing in this legal field. For example, Professor D. P. O'Connell of the Department of Law at Adelaide University has emerged as one of those whose expertise in the law of the sea is fast gaining international and local recognition. When Professor O'Connell sess fit to comment recently that the whole fabric of the law relating to the sea could be thrown open to challenge over such a simple matter as prosecuting a fisherman for taking an undersized fish, then it behoves the Interim Council of the Marine Institute to consider the establishment of a legal bureau to advise the institute about its legal competence to undertake specified research and development. If Professor O'Connell is not available to lead such a bureau or, at the least, accept a brief to establish such a legal department, then the Council should take pains to find :t legal mind of comparable excellence to do so. 
In conclusion may I again commend this legislation, lt promises a new era of understanding of our oceans and waterways, lt throws out a challenge for marine scientists, whether expatriate Australians or not, to come to Australia and share in a challenging new development in the next 2 decades which should equal anything we have experienced in Australia in the exciting decades that have just passed. It offers a chance for dramatic improvements in the quality of life, not only for Australians but for our less fortunate neighbours to the north, lt could mean that the future generations of Australians will see in the establishment of an Australian Marine Institute in Townsville one of the important political decisions of this decade, and it could well be that the Gorton Government will be remembered, among many other achievements, as having developed in the Australian nation a real and new awareness of the vital importance of our marine resources. I sincerely hope so. 
As  Chairman  I present the 115 th Report of the Public Accounts Committee.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to make a short statement. 
As Chairman, I present the 116th Report of the Public Accounts Committee which relates to Treasury minutes on the Committee's 100th and 109th Reports. I seek leave to make a short statement. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, much has been written and quite a deal has been said about the Export Payments Insurance Corporation since it was first established in 19S6. Nobody would deny that this Corporation has been a success not only in achieving its original goal of promoting and facilitating trade with overseas countries by providing insurance against certain commercial and political risks of loss, but in establishing an important aspect of the Australian financial scene which had been sadly lacking such facilities previously. As the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEvven)  mentioned in his second reading speech, its establishment was not without problems or criticism. I do not know whether it is fair to say that the establishment of EPIC was delayed at least 4 years for I am only aware of the delay between October 1954, when the then Prime Minister,  Mr Menzies,  received a deputation from the Associated Chambers of Manufactures, urging the establishment of such an export credit insurance scheme, and its introduction into the House in May 1956 by the Minister for Trade and Industry. Admittedly, no contracts were entered into by 30th June 1957 but this was surely the period of establishing the Corporation. Yet a year later there were 43 policy holders whose policies had a current face value of $22. 2m and premium income for that year was $37,406. 
Of course, there was hesitation on the part of certain manufacturers and from one's own experience there can be no denying the cautious nature in which the Australian trading banks, including the Government owned and directed Commonwealth Trading Bank, moved into accepting the insurance paper of EPIC as collateral security. This was clearly understandable. 
The mid-1950s was a time when the Government, and the trading banks, were encouraging Australian industries and interests to look beyond the Australian domestic market and think of servicing and supplying overseas markets, particularly South East Asian ones. It should not be forgotten that when EPIC was established, Australian exporters and traders could only avail themselves of insurance against marine risk, which insurance was available commercially, bank letters of credit and forward exchange cover from the Australian trading banks which was a short term protection against variations in exchange rates, vis a vis Australian currency. Forward exchange cover was, and still is, only available for specific export transactions. It required, and still requires, Australian exchange control approval and involved, and still involves, a slightly different exchange rate to the rate used for current transactions. Forward exchange cover, (hough well worth the stability it gives to the exporter for little extra cost, has never been popular with Australian traders. Yet up to 1957. it represented perhaps the only form of protection that was available to a manufacturer who was interested in seeking out markets in non-traditional areas. It remains the only practical form of protection against variations in exchange rates. 
Fifteen years ago individuals were shy in venturing forth into new overseas markets. The giants of Britain, the United States of America, France and Japan seemed invincible in the markets of Asia and Africa - and perhaps they would have remained so if the Australian Government, and particularly the Minister for Trade and Industry, had not taken such bold initiatives in encouraging incentives and rewards to those who wanted to move or, rather, those who should move forward into developing Australia into an important exporter of manufactured goods. Not the least of the actions taken by the Government was the establishment of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation 14 years ago. The mammoth role of the Minister for Trade and Industry in directing, influencing and moulding Australia into a significant international trader in all fields can never be adequately described and one can only wish that his personal achievement over a lifetime  of  public service will never be understated by any Australian  of  whatever political persuasion. 
Contrary to what some honourable members opposite may suggest, Australia's development as a significant international trader just did not happen. It came about as a result  of  a Government policy  of  encouragement and guidance. I must confess to being somewhat surprised to hear the Minister for Trade and Industry refer to the barrage of criticisms and opposition raised against EPIC from inside and outside government. I have researched the printed record  of  the mid-1950s and cannot find much public evidence  of  the attacks and blockages that were described by the Minister in his second reading speech. I must assume that most of this evidence is on departmental files and within the secrecy  of  Cabinet. From my own experience there was considerable caution by all financial institutions including, as I have already stated, the Commonwealth Government's own trading bank, but in view of prevailing opportunities, in view of a manufacturing structure which was enjoying the remarkable yet necessary protection of import control with protected and captured domestic markets, I believe there was need for caution and slow haste in relating such new devices as EPIC to individual companies and customers. Perhaps there was too much caution by some; perhaps there was  too  little appreciation by others of the needs of business to be sure rather than sorry  After all, it is one thing to believe that all manufacturers should export for the good of the country. It is quite another matter when the well being of a manufacturer is being considered in isolation "and his banker has to consider what volume pf credit and what degree of risk should be encouraged and allowed. 
But,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  no matter what initial caution may have surrounded the establishment of EPIC, 2 points should  Bow  be taken. In 1970 the scheme has succeeded up to and beyond the greatest hopes of its architects. Of course, the scheme has undergone substantial amend- ments since the initiating Act of 1 956 and shall briefly talk on these later. However, e second poult to be noted is that those who have 6een named among the early critics of the scheme - namely, the Australian trading banks - have now come around to suggesting to the Government that EPIC cover, as it now is offered, was a fundamental prerequisite, to use the Minister's words, before the banks would agree to extending credit to those Australian industries which, having the willingness and ability to supply the capital equipment required for the Bougainville project, were looking for Australian-generated credit which would allow them to hold their own with their international competitors. There can be no denying that the Bougainville project is of such magnitude and the international competition to supply equipment so keen, that all possible avenues to assist Australian industry should be opened. But what is the competition? We know that Euro-dollar loans have been negotiated by American financial interests. Long-term credits have been arranged for Japanese suppliers while there is a constant line of credit available to American manufacturers from the Export-Import Bank of the USA. There is evidence, then, that the Bougainville project, which is expected to cost, overall, about $400m, has most certainly attracted international notice. 
As members will be aware, Papua-New Guinea is outside the Australian customs area and so, contrary to what may have been thought by many, Australian suppliers enjoy no preferential treatment. Exporting from Australia to the Territory has been, in a competitive sense, just like exporting to any foreign country. In the sense that EPIC cover has been available to Australian suppliers in foreign markets, the suppliers to New Guinea have been at a disadvantage when one considers that longterm credit facilities have been available to Japanese interests, for example, who have come into the Territories' markets with such advantages over their Australian competition. Now why should we be extending EPIC facilities into Australian Territories now? The answer is simple. To date, most exports to Papua-New Guinea have been sold for cash or on very short term credit and this has presented no real problems - at least no greater problem than any member of this House would encounter when he goes to see how his own personal credit rating stands with his bank manager. But the market that is being opened by the Conzinc Rio-tinto of Australia Ltd copper development on Bougainville, presents a series of new factors. The credit required for housing, mining and transport equipment has to be offered on long-term suppliers' credit and as I have already mentioned, this form of credit is readily available and has, in fact, been made available to Australia's competitiors for this huge market. 
The Australian trading banks have announced their intention to assist in the sense that the Australian Banks' Export He-finance Corporation will make finance available to cover long-term credit sales by Australian interests to the Territories. However, such are the rigours of bank practices in Australia that collateral security is required especially when terms of 5 years and more are specified. It is here that EPIC paper proves its worth and it is in this context that the trading banks have suggested the need to secure EPIC guarantees so that the maximum credit can be extended. Quite obviously, unlimited credit will not secure, in itself, any market. But without sufficient credit, markets will be most certainly lost. Already there is reason to believe that Queensland suppliers have negotiated forward stiles estimated I believe at $20m, in the expectation of EPIC support. If these suppliers can be assisted and no other, then 1 believe the current amendment to the Act has been well worth while. But 1 have no doubt that many more contracts will be negotiated with other Australian suppliers and that the amendments currently before the House will bc seen, among other things, us one of the significant milestones in the development of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. Should Australian interests secure a major share of these attractive markets in Papua-New Guinea, then it could be an incentive to even more Australian-based companies to gear their production for export to overseas markets. 
In conclusion, I would like to commend EPIC on its financial administration. We have seen it stick to the requirement that it should endeavour to develop its business in such a way as to cover costs without coming to a profit. In its 13th Annual Report, the Commissioners have reported that since 1957, after insuring some $906m worth of exports, the Corporation has had a trading surplus of $35,510 only. In addition, it has been able to cut its premium rates without infringing the provisions of Article .16 of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade which does noi allow hidden subsidies through charging uneconomic rates. This has not been achieved without intelligent management and there would be few, if any, who would challenge EPIC on these grounds. EPIC is also to be congratulated on the amendments it has recommended during its 14 years of operation. Most of the points on which some hesitation was evident in the days of establishment have been progressively removed. Members win recall that several technical alterations have been made hut perhaps the most substantial alterations were made in 1964 when the Corporation was empowered to provide unconditional guarantees to lending institutions which finance exports of capital and semi-capital goods. Again, in 1965, when the Corporation was empowered to ensure on behalf of the Commonwealth, certain Australian investments abroad against the noncommercial risks of war, expropriation and exchange control restrictions. 
These extensions of protection have resulted in an increasing use being made by Australian exporters, albeit by rural industries, and if must be admitted that the Export Payments Insurance Corporation has made a worthwhile contribution to Australia's exporting programme to move, as provided Australian exporters with the large degree of security which has been necessary for the penetration of new markets. Now, if EPIC can continue with the same capacity to amend its operations as it has shown over the past 14 years and as has been indicated in the amending Bill before the House, then we surely can expect Australia's exporting programme to move, as progressively as financial encouragement will permit, well into the future. As the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson)  has already said in this debate, Australia's efforts in promoting exports far transcends those of any other country and this Government deserves the congratulations of all including those on the Opposition benches, and I am pleased that we have received such plaudits from the Opposition on this Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In Committee 
The Bill. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Education and Science been directed to a letter in the 'Canberra Times' this morning and to an article in that newspaper several days ago referring to an alleged rejection by Cabinet of a request from the Australian National University Council for increased student membership of that Council? Can the Minister say whether there is any basis for such a conclusion to be drawn? 
We have been listening to a collection of suave asides sliding all over a quaint speech by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  but what could scarcely be called an authoritative speech on economics and one which scarcely reflects the policies or platforms of the Australian Labor Party. I am pleased to see that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  is now at the table. One can only wish that he might have had the opportunity to speak. I am quite surprised that the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  and the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  with their economic backgrounds, have not as yet been given an opportunity to speak in this debate. 
The potential value of the Corporation proposed in this Bill should be assessed in relation to what implcations are seen in the very large inflow of foreign capital into this country in recent years. There are few subjects more complex than this one, and it is one in which it is easier to get opinions than facts. It is not always possible to separate emotional response from economic judgment in thinking about the issues raised by overseas investment, but it is very important that we do think about it and base whatever we do about it on a proper concern for the future development of this country. There can be no doubt that the huge sums invested here from abroad in recent years have been of crucial significance to the rapid industrial development we have seen taking place. Without this inflow of foreign capital we could not have developed all the new industries we have seen established; we could not have embarked on the immense new mining projects; we could not have developed our cities as they have developed or sustained our migrant intake. In fact, it is generally agreed that much of Australia's progress would have been delayed for who knows how long before Australians, acting alone, could have amassed the vast capital requirements needed or gained the technical and managerial know-how to undertake large scale projects without outside help. 
I do not believe there can be any real argument with the proposition that this foreign investment has brought great benefit to Australia at this vital stage of our development. However, I do not believe that it would be wise to arrive at that comfortable conclusion and let the matter rest. I think it right that we should occasionally look at the balance sheet and see what minuses, if any, there may ba developing. It is not so long ago that this country faced a series of crises in our balance of payments position. Honourable members will remember that there was a continuous battle to make ends meet in our international transactions. Terms of trade were and are working against Australia, as indeed with all major rural exporting countries. Manufactured exports were beginning to play an ever more significant part for us. But it was the dramatic development in the mineral industry in the past decade, backed by Government encouragement and guidance and largely financed from overseas sources, which came to the rescue of Australia's international trading situation and appears to have largely removed the threat to stability with which we had learned to live so precariously from year to year. 
Of course, there can be no disputing that the inflow of foreign capital itself has played a crucial task in balancing our accounts in some recent years. Other honourable members have pointed out some facts about the extent of foreign ownership in certain key areas of our economy. Others have referred to the growing bill which must be paid now, or in the future, for overseas funds which have been invested here. I would like to consider very briefly what these factors mean for our balance of payments. Simply put, a growing industrial structure means growing demands for capital equipment and the essential materials to sustain industrial growth. A growing population with full employment and rising living standards means growth in consumer spending. In turn, these growth factors generate imports which have increased from an annual bill of approximately $ 1,800m at the start of the 1960s to something of the order of $3,500m this financial year, representing an annual increase at the rate of 8% over the past decade. 
In addition to paying for imports we also need growing amounts of foreign exchange to meet deficits on invisibles such as freight, overseas travel, dividends and interest payable overseas. This need has been growing also. In 1959-60 the deficit in this area of our balance of payments was about $500m. Now this deficit is more than $l,000m a year and is growing. The burden of these items such as dividends, royalties and interest payments remitted abroad is also growing. In 10 years these remittances have more than doubled to about $340m today - a figure, I remind honourable members, which includes royalties. Irrespective of the precise base used or the particular factors considered, it will be agreed that the bill for these items is increasing and doing so significantly. 
Whether one agrees with the figures put forward by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  on whether one agrees with those which have been mentioned in this debate by my colleague, the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  is somewhat immaterial. Honourable members will recall that the Minister claimed that income remitted overseas had risen from 8.3% of our export earnings 5 years ago to 10.5% a year ago. The honourable member for Lilley, on the other hand, by removing certain data, claims that the figures should be from 6.6% to 8.6%. I have not had time to investigate thoroughly the figures of the honourable member for Lilley. However, I support them and his contention that royalties should not be considered in this context. Nevertheless, the reality is that both sets of figures show that, despite a substantial increase in the volume and value of our exports in the past 5 years, the cost of servicing foreign debt and foreign investment in Australia is steadily growing and, I venture to say, will continue to do so. Some time over the weekend I was able to do some figures too and I would suggest that perhaps the most significant figure to look at in this context when we consider that exports in 1964-65 amounted to $2,574m and in 1968-69 $3,220m, is the income earned after tax. This income payable on direct private overseas investment excluding royalties moved from $250m in 1964-65, which represented 9.7% of exports, to nearly double that figure in 1 968- 69 of $493m or 15.3% of that export figure. The danger is there and is one which we have to be careful about. 
In the last 5 years the annual rate of foreign capital inflow has doubled. In the last 2 years it has been at the level of some $ 1,200m. Coupled with the plough-back of profits by foreign owned companies in Australia, which itself has doubled in the last 5 years, the commitments we are now building up for future overseas payments in profits, royalties, interest and repayment of loans must be, as I think is generally admitted, rising at a considerable rate. It is to be regretted that nowhere near enough work has been done in (his field of inquiry and I would hope that the interest that was being shown at some of the universities - certainly at the University of Melbourne's commerce faculty - 10 years ago could be re-activated. There can be no questioning the great need for definitive research into forecasting trends for payments of income remitted abroad and 1 would commend it to any students who are contemplating a subject for their master's thesis. But back to the Australian Industry Development Corporation. One of the main purposes I read into the proposal for an Australian Industry Development Corporation is to encourage, not to force, but to encourage, a gradual build up in the Australian-owned share of the development now going on in order to moderate the rate of build up in our future commitments overseas for profits, royalties and interest payments. I believe this is common sense. 
As honourable members realise, capital inflow can come in a number of forms. It can come in as borrowing with a finite requirement to repay at fixed rates or as equity capital with a continuing and growing need for capital service payments. Overseas capital can come in to industries restricted by franchise imposed by parent companies overseas which prevent them exporting or to industries which develop exports and contribute to our export earnings. It can come in a way which leaves a large degree of Australian ownership and control or excludes Australian participation. In each of these alternatives, admittedly starkly posed for this speech, there is a choice between one way and another, with one choice being better for Australia's future. As 1 see it, the job for the Development Corporation will be to use its influence where it can in the projects for which its assistance is sought to see that the choice made between the available alternatives is that choice which is in the best interests of Australia. Perhaps its crucial role will be its ability to influence the proportions of overseas capital coming in in the form of fixed interest loan money as opposed to equity capital. As structured by this Bill I believe this Australian Industry Development Corporation can play this useful role certainly to the extent that its operations should result in a larger proportion of overseas capital coming into 
Australia in the form of loan moneys. These moneys will eventually be repaid, thus ending the commitment to send funds overseas to service them. Equity capital gains a right to participate in profits and there is no predictable end to the commitment. As the enterprise prospers and grows the overseas payments grow with it. 
As we are aware, the greater the share of profits of enterprises financed with capital from overseas which goes to Australians through equity holdings in our enterprises, the greater will be our capacity to finance our own further development and the stronger will bc our long term balance of payments position. These are simple facts and they have been simply put - oversimplified perhaps, but none the less important to this debate as it has developed. Of course, there remain big tasks to be undertaken in developing Australian industry and natural resources. This is not in dispute. Nor is it disputed that huge amounts of capital, both loan and equity, will need to be forthcoming for Australian development. It is in our long-term interests to encourage such measures as the Australian Industry Development Corporation, designed to assist the efforts of Australian companies to get overseas capital in the form best suited to what T believe are our best long term needs. 
Here in Australia we have developed many kinds of financial institutions each filling an important and specialised need. These institutions cover a wide range and reflect the rapid sophistication of the Australian money markers in the past decade or so. We have the large private trading banks and their savings banks, State government savings banks, the Export Payments Insurance Corporation established by the Federal Government, the private Australian Bankers Export Re-Finance Corporation, the Commonwealth Development Bank - wrongly incorporated, I still firmly believe, in the Government-owned Commonwealth Banking Corporation - the private Australian Resources Development Bank, the hire purchase finance companies, short term money market dealers who have evolved from major share broking firms, life insurance offices, overseas discount houses, the new and rapidly expanding credit unions, and so on. Furthermore there has been a great expansion of the Australian merchant banking system, increasingly in recent years in partnership with the internationally renowned merchant banks of Britain, Europe and, to a lesser extent, the commercial banks of the United States of America. 
All these institutions have largely grown up to meet a specialised need although there is inevitably some overlap between their interests and, contrary to what the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  suggested,, certainly a welcome element of competition between them. Some of these institutions perform banking functions for industry insofar as they provide short and medium term finance, deposit and overdraft facilities, and so on, although all of them, I would remind the House, do not operate as banks within the banking system. Some of them - the brokers, the short term money market dealers, the life offices and the merchant banks - provide the broad range of financing facilities, the underwriting and placement of share issues and the putting together from a variety of sources of the financial package needed to get a project off the ground and enable a company to expand. I feel there may be some confusion in the minds of the public and indeed in the minds of some honourable members simply because they have not realised that the proposed Corporation is not intended to act as a bank at all. It will not be performing banking functions any more than, say, the Australian United Corporation or the Development Finance Corporation perform such functions. 
A Corporation such as the Australian Industry Development Corporation will be a financial institution certainly; but it is not a bank. It wilt not, for example, have the privileges of a bank in accepting deposits. The Reserve Bank will not stand behind it lending support to its activities. So I do not see that the Corporation could be fairly looked upon as competing with the traditional role of the banks. At the same time, we must never underestimate the fundamental role that has been played by the Australian trading banks throughout Australia's history. The expertise that has developed from ISO years of diversified financial experience cannot and must not be understated. While the value of extending this expertise into certain other financial activities should be clearly understood and encouraged, I believe the Go vernment and the Reserve Bank have seen to this and I doubt whether there would be much credible objection from thinking Australian bankers on this matter. The trading banks have diversified not only in the way they have invested their capital funds into such activities as hire purchase, where, I might add, there has been great stabilisation following the extension of banking managerial expertise into this formerly volatile area of finance, but into the new areas of fund management and trust accounting, for example. 
At the same time we know that the banks have been forced into changing their philosophies, partly because of competition from newly developing financial organisations and partly because of policies of restriction put forward by the Reserve Bank. The Australian money market of 1970 bears no resemblance to the Australian money market of 1950  -  if, in fact, it deserved such a title 20 years ago. No,  Mr Speaker,  the role of the trading banks has changed over the past 2 decades and it is to the credit of private bank management in this country that the banking system has moved with the times so well. It has not always been a voluntary transition. Reserve Bank policy has not always been easy to follow and its directions have not always been to the advantage of the customers of the trading banks. Restrictions on lending policy, restrictive control of the trading banks' capacity to earn profit commensurate with capital involved and skills employed have not only challenged the trading banks to greater working efficiencies but they have forced bank management into new activities not, as is so often alleged by members of the Australian Labor Party, to protect their own ends, whatever these may be, but to ensure that bank customers are given the financial servicing and credit facilities their customers require. 
I do not intend this speech to be an apologia for the trading banks. I merely wish to put into some perspective what they have done, what they can do and what they believe themselves capable of achieving. I am not convinced that they have the facilities or the managerial experience to move into the activities that are planned for the AIDC. The merchant banks, for their part, do not normally, as will the AIDC, act as risk investors in their own right, with their own funds - lend to projects or participate significantly in the equity of a venture. Nor, perhaps, more importantly, have the merchant banks the capacity to raise a loan overseas for a venture which does not itself have a credit standing on the international money markets. So 1 can see no cause for concern here for the merchant banks. Rather. I believe, the AIDC should be seen as becoming a client, or an associate of the merchant banks and other related financial institutions. Indeed. I can envisage that there could be a substantial increase in business for them, as the Corporation's activities develop, both in acting in partnership with the Corporation in financing ventures and because of the growing number of projects in which Australian firms have an interest and will look to the existing financial institutions to provide their specialised services. 
As for the Australian Resources Development Bank, its role and importance for Australian development is unquestioned. lt will, I am certain, continue to receive unqualified support for its operations. But its activities are limited to the extractive industries and 1 am led to believe it does not participate in all stages, from mining to manufacture, of a new venture. For example, it would not be its purpose lo assist in the future development of an essentially mining venture into a fully fledged and integrated processing and manufacturing operation. Principally refinancing loans by its member banks, the Australian Resources Development Bank is essentially an extension of the traditional banking facilities for industry. Quite apart from all this, perhaps the main reason why an Australian Industry Development Corporation will not be in competition with existing financial institutions is that it is obviously intended to tap sources of funds not available to them; and it will be using these funds for a purpose which is not central to that of any of the exist:ng institutions, namely a charter responsibility to act - this is the important feature - to maximise Australian participation in industrial ventures. 
I see the AIDC as providing a new facility tailored especially to promote and encourage Australian participation in our industrial development in partnership and not in conflict with existing institutions. 
I imagine it will operate in a variety of ways, as determined by the particular needs of a venture it is engaged in, in providing finance solely for Australian partners in Australian ventures. I can understand that the AIDC can be and will be something of a catalyst in the putting together of attractive financial arrangements which would meet the needs of the partners in the project - the Australian companies involved, the overseas companies' involved and the other financial institutions involved - while at the same time achieving for all Australians the important policy objective of greater Australian ownership and control of Australian industrial development. 
The Bill gives the AIDC the flexibility not only to be a fixed interest borrower and lender but to provide through convertible notes, option warrants and .the like the equity sweetener that can attract to ventures funds which would not otherwise be available. On occasion, it may need to be an investment participant itself to secure its objectives of preserving Australian ownership for the future. Perhaps it is in this field that we may need some of these conditions to be considered. I know of no financial institution in Australia able to perform this task. An interesting new feature of the Corporation will be a systematic programme of borrowing overseas funds for development by Australian private industry of Australian resources and skills. I do not believe that the Corporation will always find it easy to borrow money on the international markets - whether in the recognised markets in Europe and the United States of America or from the less organised, but still significant, sources to be found elsewhere in the world. In fact,  I  believe the activities of the AIDC will be curtailed in the establishing period by the availability or non-availability of such funds overseas. Furthermore, I believe that the rate of interest that will have to be charged to clients of the Corporation, certainly at the present time, will prove to be a further dampener. 
If the Australian Industry Development Corporation, established by government* with large capital backing for all to see, cannot borrow overseas at reasonable rates of interest for investment in projects with investment appeal I have doubts that any Australian privately owned business would be able to do so. If such private businesses cannot do so then the scarcity of funds on the Austraiian loan market will mean minimal Australian ownership and control of the ventures. Internationally controlled companies do not suffer from either restriction and may still draw from captive overseas funds which they control. To sum up, with the safeguards written into its charter I believe no existing financial institution need fear the AIDC as a competitor. Indeed, existing institutions should look upon it not as a bank nor just as another financial intermediary but as a potential partner from whose activities they can gain business. As a new institution, with a specialised function of assisting Australian industrial development into private Australian ownership, it should help bring new funds into Australia. I have doubts about some details of this Bill and have agreed with many of the criticisms brought forward by honourable members on this side pf the House, particularly as to whether this Corporation will find the money it seeks overseas. But I believe we cannot know this until we try it. 
Let me add a final word about the threat of nationalising the AIDC whenever, and if, the Labor Party assumes office in Australia. I have listened to the words of nationalisation from the honourable members for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and Cunningham  (Mr Connor).  The latter member, honourable members will' recall, went so far as to say that his Party will put the AIDC to other and better uses when the Australian Labor Party assumes power. But not a word came from the Opposition  Leader  (Mr Whitlam)  regarding nationalisation. So what? These and similar comments by the Leader of the Opposition are based on one premise and one premise alone. The ALP still intends to nationalise, and I quote from page 10 of that Party's Platform Constitution and Rules', as approved in 1969, for 'nationalisation of banking, credit and insurance*. Later, in the same document, on the same page, the ALP plans 'Regulation of hire purchase and fringe institutions in conformity with regulations of the trading banks'. Or will it be 'Nationalisation by rationalisation of the trading banks'? Yet again on page 11 of the platform and policy the ALP declares for all to see that it plans 'to nationalise any industry or part thereof. The Australian Labor Party has never varied from its plans to nationalise, not just control, anything and everything it wants to. Now we will hear them say that the Constitution places limitations on them; that they, the Labor Party, will be restricted only insofar as they can get round the Constitution. If honourable members and the public think that that is merely a smart legalistic play on words by the legalistic Leader of the Australian Labor Party, then let them not be fooled. Let  Mr Jackson  and  Mr Scambler  of the banking world not be fooled. It is no argument to say that the AIDC should not come into operation because, at some future stage, that glorious party of the left- 
I know the honourable member for Sydney is not part of the left. I repeat that it is no argument to say that the AIDC should not come into operation because at some future stage the glorious party of the left might nationalise it. That glorious party of the left is going to nationalise everything. Even if it is intending to change its policy on State aid yet again - a policy, I might add, which the late Jim Fraser never repudiated for a moment, even when his political leaders did and even less when his opponents in the Australian Capital Territory ranks of the Labor Party campaigned against him on his support for State aid - let us recall that the Australian Labor Party is dedicated to nationalisation of credit whenever and wherever it can. 
I remind the House that the Reserve Bank still holds the power to cripple trading banks and their subsidiaries in Australia. The danger of nationalisation through restricted rationalisation of the Australian banks is present now, and the banking leaders of this country should recall this fact whenever they want to make public statements. Of course, the AIDC can be nationalised but where does the ALP think that it would get the funds from overseas to help it operate? From my own experience overseas there would be an immediate and lasting disenchantment with a socialised Australian Federal government. I venture to say that when the ALP does gain office the 
AIDC will cease to have the required overseas support and any resultant nationalisation of it will be of far less significance than the mammoth disruption that will shake our economy when the ALP nationalises the trading banks and their subsidiaries - and any other source of credit for that matter. 1 do not disagree with many of the criticisms made by honourable members on my side of the House. I do agree with many of them. Perhaps the case for the scheme before the House has been overstated. I believe there are areas for reconsideration. However, on balance, 1 believe the principles behind the scheme are sound and that they certainly deserve a trial. I support the Bill. 
When the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  said in his second reading speech that this legislation relating to the Bundaberg irrigation scheme in Queensland represented a significant move towards closer collaboration between the States and 
Commonwealth governments in the development of Australia's water resources, I believe he should have gone on to say that th s Bill represented a significant move towards maintaining the sovereign rights of the States and the Commonwealth. In practising the principle of federation insofar as it leaves the right of establishing priorities to the States, this Bill leaves the Queensland Government responsible to the Queensland electorate as to whether the Bundaberg scheme should have been at the top of the water development projects in that State" required for Queensland's economic development. Whether this factor will be appreciated by those in other parts of Queensland who claim to have equal or stronger cla:ms for such a priority from their State Government, remains to be seen. lt should be emphasised that the Federal Government is concerned only with examining the economic feasibility of such schemes as are put forward by the State governments before providing finance. It is not concerned with the priorities within a State. 1 can only hope that the residents of the less privileged regions are not encouraged to think otherwise. As for the Bundaberg scheme, it has one important factor as far as 1 am concerned. The scheme is concerned with the rehabilitation, protection and development of an already established region. It is concerned with the protection of a vast capital investment that has been built up by individual Australians, whether they be country or towns folk, over a period of 100 years. The Commonwealth Government is not concerned with forging new rural areas of doubtful economic utility. The Bundaberg scheme, I am pleased to note, is concerned with the maintenance of a provincial city of some 28,000 souls and a district of some 17,000 more, as a viable economic proposition. It is concerned with decentralisation, and from the many statistics which I have read on this district, a district which I have known for many years, it would seem that there is justification in the Commonwealth and Queensland governments spending SI 2.8m and $8. 3m respectively on stage 1 of the scheme. 
The Queensland Government has claimed that the objectives and effects of this scheme will mean the recovery and development of sugar production in the Bundaberg district, which is at present Queensland's third largest sugar producing region, with some 128,000. acres of assigned sugar lands held on 1,567 assignments serving 6 mills with an annual mill peak of 341,000 tons of sugar valued at something like $30m. I would like to quote from information provided by the Queensland Government regarding the scheme. The Queensland Government said: 
The scheme is planned for provision of works in 2 stages and development of sugar production in 3 stages in which the objectives and effects are as follows: 
To eliminate the effects of drought on sugar production by - 
providing irrigation from surface water to 1,181 existing assignments - 
And honourable members will recall that total' assignments are 1,567 only -  wilh a gross area of 93,433 acres in the 6 mill areas which include a number of assignments now irrigated from overused underground supplies; 
reserving use of underground supplies, to assure adequate supply for 277 existing assignments with a gross area of 25.000 acres. 
The scheme is also concerned: 
To raise the efficiency of sugar production harvesting and processing by - 
eliminating past chronic shortfalls thus raising average annual production within current peaks by some 46,070 tons of sugar valued at $4,100,000; 
reducing the annual production area required to produce existing peaks to an average of 52% of assigned areas as against an average of 65% at present. 
The scheme is also concerned with eliminating the possibility of catastrophic industry losses exceeding S50m that could occur with recurrence of prolonged drought such as that experienced at the turn of the century. Finally, the Queensland Government believed that the scheme was concerned with raising the efficiency of sugar production by eliminating drastic shortfalls in exports which could provide opportunities for other countries to take over established contracts. 
The scheme before the House is concerned only with this stage of the total development, and it will be seen that its prime purpose is to protect a vast capital investment which has been achieved only after a century of effort and, when drought has struck this fertile district of the lower Burnett, heartbreak. Other speakers will no doubt go into details of the benefit cost analysis which has been conducted by the Queensland Department of Primary Industries, the Queensland Irrigation and Water Supply Commission and the Snowy Mountains Authority. For my part, I accept the assurance I received from  Mr Ben  Anderson,  Chairman  of the Bundaberg and District Irrigation Committee, when he wrote saying that following intensive investigations by these authorities the Bundaberg scheme was shown to have a most favourable benefit cost ratio when compared with other schemes in Queensland either completed or contemplated. I also accept the assurance from the Minister for National Development, who is sitting at the table, and his predecessor, the honourabe member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  that this Bundaberg scheme has passed the Commonwealth's test of feasibility. 1 also accept the proposal that not only the farmers but the tertiary and secondary industries in the lower Burnett are equally dependent on the continuing viability of the sugar industry in this region. I am firmly convinced that without this irrigation scheme of recovery and protection, the sugar industry in the Bundaberg district will not remain a viable economic undertaking and that the district will slide into an area of confused economic worth. Much has been said about the increased income that will eventuate from this scheme. I would remind those who are suggesting that the scheme represents an unnecessary item of expenditure for the Commonwealth, that the Commonwealth Government still enjoys the power of taxing incomes and in time, perhaps not too far hence, we shall be reaping a considerable benefit from increased taxation from the greater and more reliable income that this scheme will bring to the Commonwealth. But it is not my intention to go through the benefit cost analyses that have been undertaken. 
I would, however, repeat my firm economic conviction that as far as irrigation schemes are planned for Australia then both Federal and State governments should be far more concerned with endorsing such schemes when they are related to improving and recovering established districts and regions rather than forging new frontiers of agricultural endeavour with unproved, untried and extremely doubtful economic advantage. 1 would also hope that the several governments do not overlook the need for sufficient water resources for our existing industrial development. There ;s little to support such a fear, but I know thai, on a continent which is the driest of all. water supply will always be a continuing problem, and 1 am happy that the area of establishing priorities under this scheme will remain with the States, which are, or should be. closer to this problem than any Commonwealth Government could be. Such a form of establishing priorities will ensure that no particular area of Australia will be favoured merely because it has greater representation in Canberra. I believe that the Bundaberg scheme must be supported, and this 1 do. 
Before concluding I would like to touch upon the form of parliamentary control we may anticipate over the $12.8m being granted towards the scheme by this Bill. As has already been mentioned during another debate today, the Parliament can lose the right to control expenditure when grants are made under section 96, as will be the case under this Bill. 1 agree with the honourable member for Farrer that it is urgent that this Parliament, not merely the Executive, supervise the spending of Commonwealth raised money. 1 do not know what form this control should take. Perhaps the Public Accounts Committee is in a position to examine expenditure once it has been undertaken on the Bundaberg scheme. I know I would feel a lot happier if there were a similar committee operating within the Queensland Government. At least we would know that that Government was examining large expenditures critically. ) do not say that the establishment of a Public Accounts Committee in the Queensland Parliament would be the answer to controlling section 96 grants to that State; however, I do believe that it would be a step in the right direction. The problems of parliamentary control of such large amount? of money must surely exercise the minds of all members of this Parliament. I believe this is not the Bill to work out this complex problem. I mention it now merely to warn that sooner or later we will have to wake up to the fact that the Federal Parliament is losing control over its own money and its own expenditure. Despite my concern at this lack of financial control in this Parliament  1  support the Bill. 
It is not my intention to take, much of the time of the House on this important Bill. I have spoken in this House on many occasions on matters relating to rehabilitation, and it is in this light that I would like to take the House's time. I am particularly pleased to speak in support of it because I believe the legislation brings the Commonwealth into an area of rehabilitation which it has not properly supported previously and reinforces my strong belief that the Commonwealth Government should undertake supportive measures in the field of rehabilitation rather than operate direct services to the handicapped. As the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  has said in his second reading speech, this Bill does give effect to another of the Government's policies announced last October by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton).  I am pleased to see that the Bill has the support of members from both sides of the House, though it may have been only partial support with some of the speakers. 
There are 2 points I would like to bring up. One is that I do not agree with the Opposition's contention that all the matters relating to the care of handicapped children should be under the responsibility of the Commonwealth. I believe that we have to be very careful that we do not take away the responsibility of local interest and local concern. We have seen the success in the aged persons home scheme in ensuring that local communities are concerned and work for the care of the aged in their district. We have to be very careful as a Federal Government that we do not allow the care of the Handicapped children to become the sole care of some remote unpersonalised bureaucracy sitting here in Canberra. The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  has mentioned the Handicapped Children's Centre of New South Wales. I would like to acknowledge the work he has done in this organisation. As he would be well aware, I too have had associations with this organisation. The both of us would be concerned with the future development of this important group. 
It has, sadly, functioned only too well without Commonwealth support to date. 1 would plead with the Minister for Social Services that the buildings which have been completed for the handicapped children's centre - and the  actual completion date must be very close to the date he mentioned in his second reading speech - be considered for inclusion within this scheme. The raising of money, as the honourable member for Hughes has said, has indeed been a very difficult task, lt has not been easy influencing service organisations and other interested people into supporting this very important and vital work in our community. To those of us who have been associated with this work, it is a heart-breaking thing to see the children and their parents living under the difficulties they have had. So I hope that this particular organisation will qualify under this scheme. If it does, I venture to say that many of the facilities that have been mentioned by the honourable member for Hughes will be within the reach of this organisation. 
But I believe that in looking at this legislation we should not bc merely sitting back and saying: 'It is a good thing', and leaving it at that. 1 do nor support the Opposition's amendment that we should have a limited inquiry into the handicapped children involving Commonwealth and State governments, local authorities and private agencies. 1 have in this House made a constant request - and it is in the record of Hansard and the Minister is fully aware of it - that a committee of inquiry be established, if it can be arranged through the auspices of. the Australian Council for Rehabilitation of the Disabled, to have a total investigation of all rehabilitation activities in this country to determine just what the role is of the Commonwealth Government, of the State governments, of the local governments and of the voluntary organisations. To assume, as one  speaker  on the Opposition side has said, that this should be within the care of the Commonwealth alone is, 1 believe, far too restrictive and far too cruel for such a matter as the handicapped children. If we cannot organise a scheme that demands local interest and local consideration then we might as well give the game away. One of the. things we have to appreciate in this whole field of rehabilitation is noi what the Commonwealth ha;, not done. This is past news.  We  are dealing tonight with legislation the Commonwealth has brought in. Let us forget the past 20 years. Let us forget what the Commonwealth has achieved in the past 20 years and. by golly, it has achieved at lor. 
Let us for a moment consider what the voluntary organisations have achieved. I listened with great interest to the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  and I support him in his remarks - that one of the great problems in this field is the provision of running expenses. I would hope that the next .stage will be that some scheme will evolve whereby the running expenses of these institutions will be assisted and met whether it be by Commonwealth or State or local government. But lel us not overlook how most of these handicapped childrens centres originated and how they started. They did not start because some grand idea was formulated within the Commonwealth Department of Social Services or a State Department of Social Welfare. Every single one of the voluntary organisations - no-one can challenge this - started because the people involved had children involved with that disability. 
 .fust a moment. The point to be taken here is that we cannot over'00 what volunteers do. Volunteers go into new areas far more quickly than any government department or government bureaucrat will do. The honourable member for Perth referred to the spastics organisation in Perth, and I know something of the spastics organisation in Sydney. If the honourable member for Bendigo does not know this he should learn about it. Both of these organisations were created by parents of spastic children. When there was no organisation around, when no Commonwealth, no Stale, no Liberal Party and no Labor Party had considered the matter it was the parents of the children involved who supported it. The Handicapped Children's Centre of New South Wales, which is now in Kirrawee, was started by the same process. So was the Slow Learners Association. Let us not overlook that, if 20 years ago we had been relying only upon Government support I venture to say that we would not have those institutions today. Let us not then allow this to happen in the future processes of handicapped children's centres. Let us nol, when we are considering rehabilitation in its total form, overlook the need to encourage the parents, those interested in particular disabilities. 
It is very hard to organise a district to be interested in autistic children if there is nal a body of people in the district, who are closely associated with autistic children. No amount of representation to any government, whether it is Liberal or Socialist, will bring this about if we do not have a voluntary organisation pushing, this particular interest. Let us. not be too noble about saying the Federal Government should be doing this and the Federal Government should not be doing that. I support the principle that we should today be having a total investigation of all spheres of rehabilitation, including the rehabilitation of the physically and mentally handicapped of all ages, whether they be under 21, whether they have an IQ of 30, whether they be aged 80 or whether they have an IQ of who knows what. 
The important thing is that we must have some form of investigation into what role the Commonwealth, the State and, I repeat, local government authorities and the voluntary organisations are to play in this matter. Most of us who are associated with the field of rehabilitation are very much aware that a  Mr Griffiths  from Perth has been conducting an investigation on behalf of the Department. I would hope that as a result of his preliminary inquiries - and I accept that his report has been to the Department alone - which report I am led to believe has gone forward to the Department already, it would not be long before the Minister for Social Services is able to announce that a committee of inquiry, professionally established and not politically constituted, is formed so that we can get some guide lines for the future direction of rehabilitation in this country. 
I agree with many of the criticisms that have been levelled at the Commonwealth Government. I am not being easy in saying this because, as the Minister is aware, I have made these criticisms since my maiden speech in this House 4 years ago. It is my own personal view that the Commonwealth role in rehabilitation has to be supportive. 
I believe that any system of rehabilitation of the disabled has to be concentrated on district hospitals. It has to be related to their medical conditions; it has to be related to their medical treatment; it has to be related as closely as possible to the point of their disability. I frankly do not believe that the Commonwealth Government is in a position to exercise this immediacy of treatment and development of services. I believe that we as a Federal  Government have to support State governments financially. I believe that we have to give them the lead within all these fields - and we have done it. We have done it in the field of sheltered workshops and we have done it tonight in the field of handicapped children. 
This Bill, as speakers from both sides of the House have said, despite some uninformed interjections, is beyond politics. It is something which must exercise the minds of us all. Those of us who over a period of years have attended to and shown interest in the problems of rehabilitation in all fields will be very conscious that the interest shown by members in this House has certainly gone beyond party loyalty. So,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I say to you tonight that I support the Government in this legislation before the House. It shows a forward move. As members have said before me this Government has been lax in this field of handicapped children. No-one on this side who knows anything about it would deny these allegations. But the important fact that is to be realised tonight is that we have done something about it. For this I am very pleased and I am certain that the thousands of families who are involved in this important and what has seemed frustrating situation will be very pleased too. I support the Bill. 
As  chairman  of the Public Accounts Committee, 1 present the 117th report relating to your Committee's11 0th report. I also present the 118th report relating to expenditure from the Consolidated Revenue Fund for the financial year 1968-69.  Mr Speaker  I seek leave to make a short statement. 
I seek leave to make a short statement in relation to the One Hundred and Nineteenth Report of the Public Accounts Committee which was tabled earlier today. 
As Chairman I present the 1 1 9th report of the Public Accounts Committee. I seek leave to make a short statement. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
In simple words I support the proposal. I do not agreed with the arguments that have been advanced by the honourable members for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  and Cunningham  (Mr Connor),  who, I think, at the moment is still objecting. I have found it difficult, however, to listen to such argument as was put forward by the honourable member for Oxley who regards the week away from Canberra as a week off. There would not be another member in this building - in this House or in the other place, which we still have to refer to it as - who would regard the time away from Canberra as a week off. However it is not my intention to continue with this type of debate. 
I rise to discuss a simple matter relating to committees. I agree with the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  that the proposals as put before us make it very difficult for joint statutory committees to meet. The Public Accounts Committee, of which I have the honour to be  Chairman,  cannot meet while the House is sitting. One of the problems we have already faced with the 4-day sittings arrangements we have until October is that by conducting the public sessions of the Committee, which we are required by this Parliament to conduct, certain members, who have to come from all States, have to stay in Canberra for at least 2 weeks at a stretch. I believe that we have to give greater consideration to the work of the existing joint parliamentary committees. If the proposals contained in the other paper that was tabled by  Mr Speaker  come into effect then I suggest that the hours as mentioned in paragraph 7 of the paper being discussed will not fit in with the correct and proper functioning of those committees. 
I agree with the honourable member for Cunningham that one of the great jobs of this Parliament is that we, as parliamentarians, should have our eye on the effects of administration by the bureaucracy. It is something that is creeping on us so quickly that we should be concerned about it. In any rearrangement of times, days, and timetables we must consider very emphatically the role of the committees that this Parliament itself appoints. If I have understood the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden),  I believe this is the time for me to give notice that the question of the sittings on the second Tuesday morning of the 2-week sittings will be the subject of an amendment from myself. I support the motion. 
The Minister for Shipping and Transport will be aware of the serious concern I have frequently expressed to him at the possibility of a serious oil spillage in Botany Bay. Is the Minister aware that in the last 2 days a spillage has occurred in that area? If he is aware, is he in a position to tell the House precisely what did happen on this occasion? Furthermore, will he say what can be done to ensure that there will not be a repetition of the event which has caused serious and well justified concern to the residents of Kurnell, a small township which, honourable members will recall, was so recently the national focal point of the Captain Cook bi-centenary celebrations? 
Has the Minister for External Affairs seen a report which appeared originally in the 'New York Times' which described Australian troops in Vietnam as mercenaries and suggested that the cost of maintaining Australian troops in Vietnam was met by the United Slates of America? Will the Minister comment on this scurrilous report in what so many people- 
As  Chairman  of the Public Accounts Committee, I present the 120th and 121st reports of the Committee.  Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to make a short statement. 
As Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee, I present the 122nd report of the Committee. I seek leave to make a short statement. 
Can the Minister for Social Services advise the House whether he intends to table the report which was recently prepared at his request by  Mr J.  Griffith of Perth and which made recommendations on possible future trends in governmental participation in the provision of adequate facilities for the physically and mentally handicapped? As the Minister has now received and read this report, will he now agree to establishing a committee, professionally oriented, to investigate more fully the findings of  Mr Griffith?  In this regard, will the Minister consider having discussions with, and perhaps using the services of, the new medical committee established under the auspices of the Austraiian Council for the Rehabilitation of the Disabled and headed by  Dr Burniston  of Sydney to investigate medical and health aspects of this most vital of subjects? 
I present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That due to higher living costs, including increasing charges for health services, most aged persons living on fixed incomes are suffering acute distress. 
That Australia is the only English-speaking country in the world to retain a means test for aged pensioners and that a number of European countries also have no means test. 
That today's aged persons have paid at least 7£ per cent of their taxable incomes towards social services since the absorption of special social services taxation in income tax and continue to make such  payments.  (Seven and one-half per cent of all taxable incomes for 1966-67 amounted to $783,032,150 and this year will produce more than S800,000,000, more than sufficient to abolish the means test immediately.) 
That the middle income group, the most heavilytaxed sector of the. community, subsidises the tax commitment of the upper income bracket through the amount of social services contributions collected by the government and not spent on the purposes for which they were imposed. 
That the abolition of the means test will give a boost to the economy by - 
additional tax revenue from pensions, 
swelling of the work force, and 
increased spending by pensioners. 
That it is considered just and right to allow people who have been frugal, have lived their lives with dignity and have been anything but an encumbrance on the nation, to maintain that dignity to the end of their lives free from fear of penury. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to abolish the means test for all people who have reached retiring age or who otherwise qualify for social service benefits or pensions. 
And your petitioners as in duly bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
It was not my intention to get up and take part in this debate, but so many remarkable things have come from the other side of the House that I felt that I had to answer one or two of them. I am pleased to see that the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  has now re-entered the House. I was amazed to find that the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  said that a migrant who does not speak English is not seriously disadvantaged. I would suggest to him that he might care to have a closer look at the problem. Let him try to get a job outside Melbourne or Sydney, for example, if he does not speak English. 
Let him try. too, but he is a trade union official so he would have no trouble. But lack of English is a basic disadvantage to migrants coming into this country when they are looking for jobs. I find it difficult to believe that any honourable member, including the honourable member for Wills or the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  who is calling out on my right hand side, could say that lack of English can prove to be of no disadvantage when one is looking for a job. However, it is not that about which I wish to speak. I believe that the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  gave one of the finest speeches we have heard on this subject when he spoke on the need for humanity when looking at the problem of migration. While not having suffered from the problem of lack of English, being a migrant myself I must say that the problem for people coming here is to be treated as a matter of people and not just of statistics. I should like to commend the honourable member for Prospect for saying that. But as I said.I rose to say only a couple of things. One was to comment upon the fact that I do not quite agree with the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  who referred to the use of machines for teaching though, of course, this is a very important aspect of teaching English. 
I think that over the  past 20  years a great strain has been placed on teachers in our State schools because children do absorb and children do learn English very quickly. But one of the great strains we have had has been with the teachers. Certainly in New South Wales teachers have had a great strain placed on them in trying to prepare children for their school lives. At this stageI should like to pay a tribute to the Sutherland District Parents and Citizens Association and the Sutherland Teachers Federation with whom I do not always see eye to eye. 
 As a matter of fact they are not in my electorate. I congratulate them on their continuing interest in this basic problem as it affects not so much the children but the teaching fraternity in New 
South Wales. I am certain that that fraternity will welcome this Bill and the Act when it is enacted without amendment. Without the continued pressure of those bodies I doubt whether this Bill would have been introduced. Whereas I do not support the amendment, I must agree with some of the sentiments in it. It is a shame that we did not have this legislation before the Parliament 10 or 20 years ago 
I feel I must comment upon the delay that has taken place in bringing this Bill before the House. It is now a year since the second reading speech was made and no doubt the officers who are involved in this authorising legislation will feel some nostalgia when they realise that it appeared on every House of Representatives notice paper issued in 1970. Now it is finally before the House for debate and passing on today, I sincerely hope, to the Senate. One can only anticipate that it will have a somewhat speedier passage in that other place. Such delays in legislation, irrespective of how great a national priority it mayor may not enjoy, cannot be condoned by members of this House. 
I ask the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  who is at the table, whether his colleague the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  can inform the House why the delay has taken place and what inconvenience has been caused to his Department by the fact that this Bill has lain on the table, seemingly ignored by the House, for such a lengthy period. The House will remember that in his second reading speech, on 5th March 1970, the Minister for National Development indicated that two of the primary purposes of this Bill were to authorise the right of entry by departmental mapping survey parties onto land, and to permit the clearing of trees and vegetation should this be necessary. 
The Minister told us that these authorisations were and are to apply only where these activities were necessary for Commonwealth purposes and only when proper advance notice, which must be given to the landowner, had been given. 
With the delay that has taken place in having such authority enacted, one must be concerned as to whether the rights of the survey parties and the landowners have been protected during this somewhat twilight period for this Bill. 1 sincerely hope these rights have been safeguarded and I would welcome clarification on these points from the Minister about what will happen to departmental officers against whom action may be taken in a court of competent jurisdiction. Are they protected by other Commonwealth Acts? What will happen to a landowner who seeks compensation for damage caused by survey parties since March 1970? 
The Minister mentioned that the survey parties are to do as little damage as possible but where damage must necessarily occur there is provision for compensation of the landowner. Of course, the history of the Department's survey parties has been satisfactory but 1 would hope that there is some retrospectivity in this legislation to cover both parties, at least for the period the Bill has lain, immovable it would seem, on the table. If not, will the Minister consider amending the Bill to achieve retrospective protection for all parties involved? 
The Bill contains another most important provision, and that is for the preservation of survey marks. The essential task of Commonwealth mapping organisations is to determine the latitude, longitude and height in relation to mean sea level of the natural surface of the Australian continent, of man made features located thereon, of the continental shelf offshore and of the seaward aids to navigation. 
In order to carry out their tasks, J am informed that surveyors establish an approximate grid pattern of very high precision alt over the country which are very well marked on the ground and which enable mapping operations to be started in isolated areas by any governmental or private mapping agency and to eventually merge into a perfectly co-ordinated pattern over the whole of Australia and its adjacent waters. On land I believe it is possible to set up special electronic survey equipment on these marked stations to enable accurate positioning of aircraft and of air photograph from which maps are made. Obviously these maps will  need to  b&gt;:  revised from lime to time, and additional mapping at larger scale and in greater density for particular areas will no doubt follow, but all these activities will fit into one homogeneous pattern because, and only because, of the continued existence of the basic survey marks. It is evident then that it has been necessary for provision to be made for the preservation of survey marks and I am certain most landowners will continue to co-operate in doing what is required of them in this regard for the national good. 
Along the coastline, survey stations are established for special radio equipment which permits the accurate positioning of survey vessels at sea where they would be used in sounding the depths of the sea bed. I am told that the hydrographic service of the Royal Australian Navy is engaged on the accurate survey of navigation route; between the ports situated around the Australian coastline. We all realise that navigation routes are being travelled by ships of rapidly increasing size to transport the great mineral wealth that has been discovered in recent years all over Australia, and we similarly realise how important the accurate surveying of these routes is going to be again for Australia's develop ment, and can only hope that the delay in this Bill's passage does not presage any reduction or postponement in this programme. I would welcome the Minister's assurance on thU point. 
Inquiries have shown that the Royal Australian Navy hopes to bring these surveys completely up to date during this decade and the Minister for National Development has announced that concurrently with these hydrographic surveys his department would engage on a 10-year programme to bathymetrically map the continental shelf. I am told this bathymetric mapping will be on a much broader scope than the detailed hydrographic surveys of navigation routes but will be co-ordinated with them. It will determine the contour and physiography of the continental shelf at a scale of 1 : 250,000 or approximately 4 miles to 1 inch or, in view of the trend to . metrication 2.5 kilometers to 1 centimetre. 
The ships making these surveys will also be accurately guided to their correct latitude and longitude position by special shore based equipment located on surveyed stations, to which I have already mad. reference. The end result will be a series of bathymetric maps which will provide accurate background data for, and enable the proper recording of, all sorts of scientific investigations of the surface of the continental shelf and of the waters above it, and of the resources thereon, therein and thereunder. 
As we know the Department of National Development is currently engaged on geological, magnetic, seismic and gravity surveys of the shelf. The Minister has described much of this in his second reading speech and although I have spoken before on the success of the Government's mapping division since the end of World War II when, I remind the House, only 5 per cent of Australia had been adequately mapped by Australians, I would repeat to the House that if we had not undertaken such a comprehensive mapping programme and  if  the programme had not achieved the success it has, in providing precise and accurate geological  maps  in sufficient detail, then the magnificent mineral development going on in Australia would not, and could not. have even been contemplated. This discovery was not an accident:  it  was the result of firm Government policy from this side.  1  am pleased to have been informed that the Government is still going ahead with the establishment of a marine sciences institution based in Townsville which will initiate, direct and co-ordinate other forms of scientific research  into  the waters surrounding  our  Australian coastline. In order that the results obtained from these scientific activities be co-ordinated into a perfect co-relation with each other and to permit full and complete environmental and ecological studies  it  is necessary for the ships on which observations are made to be accurately positioned in latitude and longitude. This will necessitate temporary but repeated location at previously marked survey stations of the same sort of radio positioning equipment that is used by the mappers. If these repetitive activities are to move on smoothly and efficiently the originally marked stations must also be preserved intact for continuing use by surveyors who must therefore also have reasonable rights of access to these sites. It is in order to preserve these survey marks that this Bill authorises the establishment of the survey marks in the first instance and provides penalties to discourage those who would damage them.  1  repeat that there is a necessity, not only to establish, but above all to maintain and preserve the survey marks that have been made and are being established by Commonwealth mapping surveyors. Of equal importance is the necessity to authorise reasonable access to these survey marks for the purposes not only of continuing map revision and map intensification, but also for the scientific and resources surveys that from henceforward will no doubt be a continuing pattern to provide the basic statistical information necessary for the complex problems associated with the balanced development and conservation of om great nation. I support the Bill but before  1  conclude my remarks I should like to pay a tribute to those who work in this service which has certainly come of age in the last few years. Our mapping services are indeed second to very few countries and possibly there would be only one or two nations which would have finer government operated mapping services. 
I have already spoken once durng the Committee stage but I would like to make one point on the matters that have been raised by previous speakers. Having said in my earlier speech that I was in favour of the reports of the Public Accounts Committee and this statement being debated at the same time, I wonder whether I might suggest to the previous speakers that if they speak again they may be interested in arguing why the amounts in the statements of the Advance to the Treasurer were in fact included rather than why there were expended. I think this would perhaps keep them within the scope of this debate. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  himself a former distinguished member of the Public Accounts Committee and perhaps one of the most informed men in this chamber on matters of public finance generally, kept himself within those bounds. I suggest to the previous speakers that that should be the area in which they should keep the debate. 
The point of the Advance to the Treasurer is that the money was expended between April and June in 1970. It was a policy decision, and the amount was to be spent over 12 months ago. I thought the interesting point for all of us on both sides of the chamber was not the policy underlying the figures but rather why on earth departments had to resort to the Treasurer's Advance as their forms of finance. I repeat that I think it may be well worth their while, as the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope),  who is sitting here, would no doubt agree, to read back and see what the Joint Committee has said on the Advance to the Treasurer during the last several years, and it may come as a surprise to realise how critical some of those reports have been on some of the very subjects that have been raised. 
We are speaking today on expenditure from Advance to the Treasurer for the financial year 1969-70. While it is somewhat unusual for the House to have the opportunity of commenting on this expenditure at this time of the year, as  Chairman  of the PublicAccounts Committee which, as you realise, has a vital and continuing interest in this expenditure, I welcome this opportunity to speak on the statement. No doubt, honourable members will have studied the one hundred and twenty-third report of the Committee which was tabled in the House on 28th October last and will be aware of the salient points raised by the Committee on the items of expenditure included in the Statement now before the House and examined by your Committee early in the last session of the Parliament.  Mr Chairman,  you will be aware that since the inception of the Public Accounts Committee in 1952, the Committee has taken a keen interest in the expenditure results achieved by departments. Indeed the first report of the Committee in 1953 related to the Supplementary Estimates, as they then were designated. In point of fact it would be fair to say that since then the Public Accounts Committee has occupied an important role in the development of present practices relating to the tabling of the Treasurer's Advance. 
Of particular importance from the viewpoint of principle, the thirty-first report of the Committee concluded: 
The Treasurer should submit, with a resolution seeking the approval of the Parliament, and in lieu of supplementary Estimates, a statement indicating the expenditure authorised by him from the Treasurer's Advance, as allocated to various heads of expenditure under Section 36a of the Audit Act. 
The Treasurer's Statement of Section 36a allocations should be tabled for the consideration of the Parliament as soon as possible within the financial year following the year to which they relate. 
The Joint Parliamentary Committee of Public Accounts should endeavour to prepare for the Parliament a Report on each Statement as early as possible in the ensuing financial year and, if practicable, by the date on which the Treasurer tables it. 
It is a matter of considerable satisfaction to past and present Committee members that these principles, enunciated by the Committee in that report in May 1957, now find their place in the normal financial administration of the Government and of the Parliament. It is of interest to note that the Committee which made these recommendations included among its members  Senator Dame  Ivy Wedgwood, the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme),  the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  and the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope).  Indeed'! would suggest to the House that the Public Accounts Committee through its annual inquiries into expenditures from the Advance to the Treasurer has greatly assisted members of Parliament in their participation in the financial administration of the Commonwealth. I would add, however, that there is a pressing need for greater and more effective parliamentary interest in the spending of the public purse and in assessing the proficiency of the Public Service in carrying out this duty on our behalf. We must realise that the right of the House to exercise an effective control over the public purse is as precious as any of the rights we so often defend. The Executive and the Public Service have an ever increasing control and, if we continue to leave this situation unchallenged, the very democracy we proclaim so proudly will slowly wither away. 
As I have already mentioned, the work of the Joint Parliamentary Committee of Public Accounts performs a very valuable service in this regard. But this is not sufficient. Individual members themselves must be in a position to play an effective part in the important field of parliamentary control over the public finance of the Commonwealth. Certain members on both sides of the House have the specific talents and background and they have made notable contributions. But if ever there was a case for honourable members to have personal assistants, as in the United States of America, it is in the area of financial review and examination. Sooner or later members of the Parliament will need personal staff to make it feasible for them to perform their basic task of governing the country. But we do not have such staff and I would not venture to guess as to when we may have them. But it must come about if we are to perform our duties with some degree of honesty and efficiency, particularly when we have the present opportunity of discussing the Advance to the Treasurer. 
In a leading article in the 'Canberra Times' today the suggestion was made for the establishment of a new joint parliamentary committee to investigate the growth of the Public Service in recent years. I would suggest that rather than establish yet another committee, there would be greater merit in strengthening the advisory resources of the Public Accounts Committee, which Committee has shown* through its general inquiries into the financial administration of departments, as well as its annual inquiry into the performances of departments relative to expenditure from the Advance to the Treasurer, no inhibitions in conducting inquiries in the important field of staff management and controls. Honourable members, if they have not already done so and I suspect some have not, may care to examine for themselves chapter 5 of the Committee's one hundred and twelfth report on the Commonwealth Advertising Department of the Treasury. I put it to you,  Mr Chairman,  that consideration should be given to strengthening the advisory resources of the Public Accounts Committee both in the public interest and in the interests of this Parliament. 
It is not my intention to repeat speeches made when reports of the Public Accounts Committee on the Advance to the Treasurer have been presented to the House in recent years. These are available in Hansard and though their message is certainly worth repeating I do not intend to do so now. Let me say, however, that the debate that is taking place today and which includes the Committee's report as well as the Statement of Expenditure from the Advance to the Treasurer would indicate that the timing of the presentation of the statement to the House could with advantage become a regular feature in the parliamentary calendar so that we may, following the example of the House of Commons, debate what the parliamentary committees are doing on behalf of the Parliament itself and therefore allow a more meaningful and more effective contribution, participation and I venture to say a more meaningful control of the public purse than has been the case up to date. 
I commend the fact that we have made this a joint discussion today. 1 was pleased to note that the 2 previous speakers from the Opposition side took the opportunity of mentioning matters that were raised in the last report - 1 believe it is the One Hundred and Twenty-third report - of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. We as backbenchers and as private members have goodness knows few enough opportunities to have a say in the financial control of our country. Unless we develop a capacity to speak on matters such as the Advance to the Treasurer, our role as private members will continue to decrease. Again, I suggest there are 2 needs. One is the need to strengthen the advisory staff of the existing joint standing committees, and that includes the Public Accounts Committee, and the other is that the position of private members- in this House should bc strengthened by granting them the use of personal staff who may help them with vital and necessary research into the financial administration of Australia. 
Progress reported. 
1  present the following petition: 
To i he Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the. needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education'. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
Thai the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to - 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the Slates for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
As  Chairman  I present the One Hundred and Twenty-fifth and One Hundred and Twenty-sixth Reports of the Public Accounts Committee. I seek leave to make a short statement. 
Is the Minister for Immigration aware of a public statement made in Perth yesterday by a visiting Japanese Government economic mission that future joint ventures between Australia and Japanese interests in Australia could be impeded unless our current migration policies insofar as they affect Japanese migrants, are altered? I ask the Minister: Is it not a fact that certain skilled Japanese workers may enter Australia under our immigration laws as they are applied at present, and that the real restrictions to which the Japanese dignitaries refer are industrial limitations imposed by certain sectors of the trade union movement? 
Or FORBES - 1 have seen 2 reports of what is alleged to have been said by this Japanese survey mission. The first one. a Melbourne report, referred to the fact that the Japanese were concerned about our restrictive immigration policies affecting joint ventures. Another one, a Sydney report, suggested that the head or the deputy head of the mission had appealed to the trade unions to change their attitude to the entry of temporary workers, particularly Japanese technicians. Government policy does permit well-qualified Japanese who are capable of being integrated into our community and who have qualifications which are positively valuable to Australia to migrate to this country and settle here. 
There is also a well denned Government policy in relation tO:the entry for temporary residence of workers who have specialist qualifications. It involves in every case consultation with the Department of Labour and National Service to determine whether workers with these qualifications are available in Australia, and I understand that in appropriate cases the Department of Labour and National Service consults with the trade unions. These rules are well known. They are laid down. They were handed to this Japanese economic mission and no questions were raised. I might say, too, because of the overtones of these articles, that these policies in relation to temporary residence apply equally to nonEuropeans and Europeans who wish to come to Australia to work on a temporary basis. 
Did the Minister for National Develoment see a recent Press report which stated that a drum of radioactive fuel had fallen accidentally from a truck in the Sydney area? If he did, can the Minister advise the facts of the matter and, more importantly, can he say whether strict safety procedures were followed in this case? 
f present the one hundred and twenty-seventh report of the Public Accounts Committee. I seek leave to make a statement. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation a question which is supplementary to the question asked by the honourable member for Corangamite. Can the Minister advise and comfort the House as to whether the Department of Civil Aviation will conduct noise tests on the BAC Concorde before it is permitted to use Australian airports? Can he also inform the House of the general powers of the Department in this field? 
-It is not my intention to take much time or to generalise too broadly on the Bills before the House, but I feel that I must say that in some of the generalisations of the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  regarding the precision of figures, there was some merit. I would be remiss if I did not bring to the attention of the House that in working out Budget papers and the Estimates we must still ask for precision in estimation and precision in the small figures from departments when it comes to departmental spending on an item by item basis. One could not disagree with the honourable member for Melbourne Ports that anticipating trends when one does not know what is going to happen with regard to the immense salaries content in the Budget is a very difficult problem. Therefore, I think there is wisdom in the principle we have adopted that departments should not include likely wage increases within their estimates, and certainly in Appropriation Bills (No. 1) and Appropriation Bill (No. 2). I believe that Appropriation Bill (No. 3) and Appropriation Bill (No. 4) before the House today may well be documents in which this could be more clearly spelt out. Having shared the experience of being on the Public Accounts Committee at different times, the previous  speaker  and I bask in the comfort of hindsight when it comes to commenting on the precision of departments in relation to their itemised spending. 
In speaking on Appropriation Bills (No. 3) and (No. 4) I want to remind honourable members that when the House is considering Appropriation Bills (No. 1) and (No. 2) each year it has the benefit of the Budget speech which outlines the policies of the Government and describes in some detail the expenditure proposals and the means of financing them. Honourable members are very conscious of the great volume of supporting material, including statistics, that is made available to us at that time. The honourable member who preceded me in this debate would have few peers in this place when it comes to critically analysing and understanding this substantial volume of supporting material that accompanies the presentation of the Budget speech in August each year. One of the casualties of his Party having sat on the Opposition benches for so long is that he has been shadow Treasurer for what is unquestionably a record term. It is difficult to know whether this term will ever be equalled. 
We hope not, too; perhaps even more fervently. Some may go so far as to say, when talking of the material supporting the Budget speech, that the material represents a veritable avalanche of statistics. Yet, as members of this House, I believe we must remain vigilant to ensure that within that mountain of material there is sufficient description and availability of pertinent facts to permit meaningful examination in the House. One of the matters which we must constantly consider is whether the availability of detail essential to the deliberations of this House is not obscured either by a constant endeavour on the part of the administration to simplify the presentation of the material or by the very volume of the material presented. 
While this is particularly apposite to Appropriation Bills (No. 1) and (No. 2), or, as they are more commonly called, the Budget, it has equal relevance when considering Appropriation Bills (No. 3) and (No. 4). The House must have comprehensive, pertinent and revealing information made available to it whenever appropriation of funds of such magnitude is being sought from this Parliament. It should be emphasised that while the amounts sought in the additional estimates before the 
House today are necessarily small compared with those sought at Budget time, nonetheless the Parliament is being asked to appropriate funds in the same way it is asked to appropriate funds in the Budget. Therefore, it is disturbing to find that the second reading speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  though it described in general terms the reasons for the total appropriation of $ 120.9m in Appropriation Bill (No. 3) and $32.7m in Appropriation Bill (No. 4), which is required to be approved by the House, does not contain sufficient supporting material to explain why approval for certain amounts is being sought from this House. I would like to thank the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt),  who is at the table, for having made available to me during the speech of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports some of the figures that he questioned, but I still maintain that this is a little late. 
We are here to debate the contents of these two Bills and though, as the previous  speaker  suggested, they are nothing in size when compared with the Budget and are infinitesimal when compared with our gross national product, I believe these Bills represent a principle which honourable members on both sides of this House should insist upon. As far as these Appropriation Bills are concerned, time obviously does not permit individual members to analyse all the items placed before us. I hope that when the Bill reaches the Committee stage there will be adequate material made available to honourable members to ensure meaningful debate within the time allotted for this purpose. As matters stand it would be to the great benefit of individual private members in the House, resulting in a more positive parliamentary interest and control of the public purse, if there could be adequate personal staff available to private members to examine financial data thoroughly. But it is not my intention at this stage to seek once more, seemingly in vain, the extra personal staff which each and every member of this House needs to play his part properly as a private member. 
So far as Appropriation Bill (No. 4) is concerned, it is noted that the amounts sought for capital works and services range from $1,000 for the Central Bureau of Satellite Geodesy to $12m as a single line item for payment to the Post Office Trust 
Account. Yet with regard to this latter significant amount I repeat that no information was placed before the House prior to the debate taking place on this subject, i believe that we were entitled to an earlier explanation of the reasons underlying what is an evident need. 
Like the previous  speaker,  1 remind the House that when the Post Office financial arrangements were changed to provide for one line appropriations, an assurance was given to honourable members that a paper relating to Post Office activities would be made available to honourable members in association with the Budget documents. As we know, several such papers have been placed before the Parliament so far, and, of course, such a paper cannot foreshadow all changes that will inevitably occur during the financial year. For this reason the Post Office paper presented in connection with the Budget in August last cannot be expected to have relevance to the amount of $12m sought in Appropriation Bill (No. 4). As no reasons were given in the second reading speech, I would hope that detail, sufficient to justify a single amount representing no less than 36 per cent of the total sought in Appropriation Bill (No. 4), will be made available to members of this House. I realise that time could be a factor in properly informing the House at this time. But I would commend to the Treasurer and to the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  the need for such detail to be made available to honourable members at the earliest opportunity and certainly for inclusion in future Appropriation Bills (Nos 3 and 4). 
Of course, the problem is that when these figures are brought before the House the supporting evidence must have been available for these figures to have been compiled, approved and brought before us. So 1 see little reason why these matters have not been presented to us. Of course, we do not wish this to be a repetition of the Budget, nor do we wish it to be regarded as a little Budget each year. Nor indeed in this debate should the Government's policy come under the close scrutiny that it does during the Budget debate in August and September. But if we, as a Parliament, have reached the stage of accepting a one-line item for such a major spender of Federal funds as the Post Office, I believe that the figures which have been placed before me - and 
I do not know whether I can table them or have them incorporated in Hansard; I suspect that I cannot - should in future times be made available to us. 
The point is that we have not only the problem which the honourable member for Melbourne Ports brought forward about the Post Office which we, as a Parliament, have accepted as a trust account financial situation in public finance, but also the situation of a department like the Department of Civil Aviation claiming $6.3m without any explanation at all being available for us to use. So I would repeat to the point of nausea, but it must be repeated, that the Parliament must have the figures. We must achieve a streamlining of the Budget Papers, and nobody would dispute, that. But when committees, such as the Public Accounts Committee, seek and receive an assurance on behalf of our constituents, namely the members of this House, that we will have sufficient data before these matters are placed before the House, then 1 believe that Appropriation Bills (Nos 3 and 4) should afford the equal courtesy, if it is a courtesy, that is extended to us in the Budget Papers. 
In listening to the comments and in accepting the broadness of the subjects mentioned at this time of the parliamentary year, I would like to say that with all the talk about the needy in the community perhaps there is no more needy and no more critical area in our social situation than that of the young widow with a small family. I should like to hear more comment come from both sides of the House on the tragic situations that are faced by the young unmarried mother and the young widow with small children who do not receive anywhere near enough support for their situations. None of us would complain about the allegations that aged pensioners never get enough. This is true. But too often we are blinded to the fact that the young widow in the community does not have herself as organised as she might be in order to have a meaningful and strong voice brought forward to this House. Despite my comments on Appropriation Bills (Nos 3 and 4), I will be supporting them. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
The Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State eduction services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to - 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State eduction services has established serious deficiencies in eduction. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to - 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. In view of the reports that several European countries have announced somewhat dramatically that foreign trading in their currencies has been suspended; in view of the very strong possibility of revaluation of those European currencies and the attendant possibility of a movement in the international valuation of the Japanese yen; and in view of the international paper which is held in those currencies by the Federal Government and certain of its instrumentalities, can the Treasurer inform the House to what extent and in what detail this crisis is being followed by Australian authorities? Furthermore, would the Treasurer be prepared to make a statement to the House during this day should important news be forthcoming from overseas on this crucial subject? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth - 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament Assembled. The humble petition of 4 electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
that the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2603 XXIV A (December 1969) declares that the Geneva Protocol of 1925, which Australia has ratified, prohibits the use in international armed conflict of any chemical agents of warfare - chemical substances whether gaseous, liquid or solid - employed for their direct toxic effects on man, animals or plants; 
that the World Health Organisation Report (January 1970) confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare; 
that the Australian Government does not accept this definition, but holds that the Geneva Protocol does not prevent the use in war of certain toxic chemical substances in the form of herbicides, defoliants and 'riotcontrol' agents. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray: 
that the Parliament take note of the consensus of international political, scientific and humanitarian opinion; and 
that Honourable Members urge upon the Government the desirability of . revising its interpretation of the Geneya Protocol, and declaring that it regards all chemical substances employed for their toxic effects on man, animals or plants as being included in the prohibitions laid down by that Protocol. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the one hundred and twenty-eighth report of the Public Accounts Committee which relates to the Australian Tourist Commission. I seek leave to make a short statement. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned showeth: 
That the Australian people both in metropolitan and rural areas should have the best of television programmes available to them and that television as a powerful means of communication should not be in the control of too few hands. 
The increased quota for Australian dramatic productions should not be imposed by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board at the expense of Australian professional variety or Australian documentary or educational programmes, but directed more towards cutting down expenditure on the purchase of imported productions, thus effecting a considerable saving in Australia's overseas balance of payments. 
The Australian Parliament has a responsibility to encourage the development of our National identity, character and heritage and the promulgation, for the sake of our children, of an adequate picture of Australia, her standards, morals nad way of life, particularly through the media of Radio and Television, which is in the immediate control of the Australian Government. 
Until constructive and positive action is taken by the Australian Government to promote Australian culture and protect the employment and professional standards of Australian writers, artists and producers in Australia itself there is little likelihood of stopping the flow of Australian talent from Australia to other countries. 
The Australian Broadcasting Control Board must insist that its new quota standards of Australian dramatic content on television are rigidly imposed and enforced on all commercial television stations. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled, should - 
Cause the Australian Government to recognise the right of Australian professional people engaged in the creative and performing arts to further develop their skills and talents in Australia, and to be protected from overseas programmes in a way that will encourage an Australian Television and Radio industry that can reflect and contribute to our identity and growth as a Nation. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
As  Chairman,  1 present the one hundred and twenty-nineth and one hundred and thirtieth reports of the Public Accounts Committee. I seek leave to make a short statement. 
I present the following pet  ition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned showeth: 
That the Australian people both in metropolitan and rural areas should have the best of television programmes available to them and that television as a powerful means of communication should not be in the control of too few hands. 
The increased quota for Australian dramatic productions should not be imposed- by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board at the expense of Australian professional variety or Australian documentary or educational programmes, but directed more towards cutting down expenditure on the purchase of imported productions, thus effecting a considerable saving in Australia's overseas balance of payments. 
The Australian Parliament has a responsibility to encourage the development of our national identity, character and heritage and the promulgation, for the sake of our children, of an adequate picture of Australia, her standards, mores and way of life, particularly through the media of radio and television, which is in the immediate control of the Australian Government. 
Until constructive and positive action is taken by the Australian Government to promote Australian culture and protect the employment and professional standards of Australian writers, artists and producers in Australia itself there is little likelihood of stopping the flow of Australian talent from Australia to other countries. 
The Australian Broadcasting Control Board must insist that its new quota standards of Australian dramatic content on television are rigidly imposed and enforced on all commercial television stations. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled, should - 
Cause the Australian Government to recognise the right of Australian professional people engaged in the creative and performing arts to further develop their skills and talents in Australia, and to be protected from overseas pro grammes in a way that will encourage an Australian television and radio industry that can reflect and contribute to our identity and growth as a nation. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-] present  the following  petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned showeth: 
That the Australian people both in Metropolitan and Rural areas should have the best of television programmes available to them and that television as a powerful means of communication should not be in the control of too few hands. 
The increased quota for Australian dramatic productions should not be imposed by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board at the expense of Australian professional variety or Australian documentary or educational programmes, but directed more towards cutting down expenditure on the purchase of imported productions, thus effecting a considerable saving in Australia's overseas balance of payments. 
The Australian Parliament has a responsibility to encourage the development of our National identity, character and heritage and the promulgation, for the sake of our children, of an adequate picture of Australia, her standards, morals and way of life, particularly through the media of Radio and Television, which is hi the immediate control of the Australian Government. 
Until constructive and positive action is taken by the Australian Government to promote Australian culture and protect the employment and professional standards of Australian writers, artists and producers in Australia itself there is little likelihood of stopping the flow of Australian talent from Australia to other countries. 
The Australian Broadcasting Control Board must insist that its new quota standards of Australian dramatic content on television are rigidly imposed and enforced on all commercial television stations. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled, should - 
Cause the Australian Government to recognise the right of Australian professional people engaged in the creative and performing arts to further develop their skills and talents in Australia, and to be protected from overseas programmes in a way that will encourage an Australian Television and Radio industry that can reflect and contribute to our identity and growth as a Nation. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members  of  the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned showeth: 
That the Australian people both in Metropolitan and rural areas should have the best of television programmes available to them and that television as a powerful means of communication should not be in the control of too few hands. 
The increased quota for Australian dramatic productions should not be imposed by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board at the expense  of  Australian professional variety or Australian documentary or edu1educational programmes, but directed more towards cutting down expenditure on the purchase  of  Imported productions, thus effecting a considerable saving in Australia's overseas balance  of  payments. 
The Australian Parliament has a responsibility to encourage the development of our National identity, character and heritage and the promulgation, for the sake of our children, of an adequate picture of Australia, her standards, mores and way of life, particularly through the media of radio and television, which is in the immediate control of the Australian Government. 
Until constructive and positive action is taken by the Australian Government to promote Australian culture and protect the employment and professional standards of Australian writers, artists and producers in Australia itself there is little likelihood of stopping the flow of Australian talent from Australia to other countries. 
The Australian Broadcasting Control Board must insist that its new quota standards of Australian dramatic content on television are rigidly imposed and enforced on all commercial television stations. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled, should - 
Cause the Australian Government to recognise the right of Australian professional people engaged in the creative and performing arts to further develop their skills and talents in Australia, and to be protected from overseas programmes in a way that will encourage an Australian Television and Radio industry that can reflect and contribute to our identity and growth as a Nation. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the National Service Act, under which young men who have objections to participating in the Vietnam war, are gaoled, should be repealed; and 
That Geoff Mullen, and other young men currently in gaol for refusing to fight in Vietnam, should be immediately released. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, will take immediate steps to release Geoff Mullen and other non-compliers with the National Service Act, and will repeal the National Service Act. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of government education services has established serious deficiencies in education, the most important areas being a severe shortage of teachers, inadequate accommodation, and, as a. result, oversized classes. 
That extra Federal finance is urgently required to save the government school system. 
That while the needs of the government schools are being neglected, large amounts of public money is being given, in various and numerous grants, to private schools. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to make emergency Federal finance available to the States for State school education, and divert the large sums of public money being spent on private schools, to the government school system for which the government is truly responsible. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 As the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  said in his second reading speech, the purpose of this Bill is to amend section 50 of the Public Service Act 1922-1968- 
There was no mention of any arrangement to me. 
I was completely unaware of that. 
Was there some arrangement? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I have called the Assistant Minister. 
The purpose of this Bill was described by the Minister for National Development in his second reading speech, but I would like to make a couple of remarks by way of explanation of the measure. The Joint Council, which made the recommendation to the Government in this regard, felt that the tribunal arrangements under which staff associations participate in intrastate appeals should be extended to the final determinations of interstate appeals. I believe the Government is to be congratulated on bringing forward this legislation. I am quite certain that it will meet with widespread approval among the officers of the Commonwealth Public Service. I believe that the essence of this amending legislation is that it will enable a central promotions appeal committee to deal with interstate appeals in the same way as the State promotions appeal committee currently handle intrastate appeals. As honourable members are aware, the State committees can make final determinations on those officers in up to and including Class 8 of the Third Division. 
Under the new system all interstate appeals will be made to a central promotions appeal committee which, by and large, will deal with cases on the basis of written reports forwarded from the appropriate State committees, but that in certain cases where necessary the central promotions appeal committee will call the parties involved for further interview. At present the Public Service Board makes this decision. So it can be said the appeal system as such is being extended to allow greater staff participation in appeals by officers in up to the level of Class 8 while above that level the final determinations will be still made by the Pubic Service Board. 1 believe that something like 95 per cent of the officers in the Commonwealth Public Service are on or below the level of Class 8 and are therefore affected by this legislation, which J believe has the support of not only the Opposition but also the Public Service unions and associations involved. 1 think it is important to the efficiency of the Public Service, which provides a nationwide service, that the officers who work for it should feel free to move interstate in pursuance of their personal careers. As far as the appeals system is concerned, I believe that this amending Bill should facilitate such interstate transfers. 
The honourable member ibr Hindmarsh, who has indicated his support of the Bill, has now commended me for my speech and suggested that I round it off, which I will now do. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I thank honourable members opposite who have spoken for their courtesy in providing me with the opportunity to speak for a few minutes in this debate on the Appropriation Bills Nos (4) and (5). I shall not occupy much of the time of the House but I should like to raise the subject of allowing sullage charges as income tax deductions. I understand that as the law now stands, deductions can be allowed only if authorised by section 72 of the Income Tax Assessment Act, in that this section permits the allowance of deductions for outgoings for which the taxpayer personally is liable and which constitute rates which are annually assessed. As those of us in this House whose electorates are burdened by this socially revolting practice of sullage - or sewage pump-out. as it is technically called - know, there is a diversity of practice in the imposition and calculation of charges for the removal of sewage. It is this diversity which has caused the Commissioner of Taxation some doubt as to his ability to allow charges in respect of sewage pump-out to be classified as rates which are annually assessed. 
Honourable members will realise that I have been asking for these expenses to be made tax deductible since I was elected to this House in 1966. Again I ask the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  to consider making an appropriate amendment to section 72 of the Income Tax Assessment Act so that specific provision of the law will allow these outgoings of a private and domestic nature to become deductible for income tax purposes. For those who do not live in the Sydney metropolitan area and who are not acquainted with the dreadful social disadvantages which attach to weekly or twice weekly removal of sullage from their septic tanks, I can assure them that this practice is just about as barbaric as the dry pan system which also is still used in the metropolitan area of Sydney. I believe that those people who are suffering from the necessity of having a sullage system for sewage disposal should not be penalised a second time by not having the expenses, which are very often high, allowed as a tax deduction. So, yet again, 1 ask the Treasurer to give this matter a very high priority consideration in connection with the 1972-73 Budget. It is an anomaly which deserves rectification. 
I am pleased to hear that the honourable member for Robertson agrees. He also suffers from this problem and 1 notice that people do not sit next to him. I ask the Treasurer to give this matter very high priority when considering the next Budget. While talking on tax deductions I would also like to put forward yet again a case to the Treasurer to consider allowing tax deductions for donations to the scouting and the guiding movements whose magnificent contributions to the quality of life in Australia most of us know. I have always thought it unfortunate that donations to these magnificent movements, which, strangely, do not enjoy the support of ali members of the Opposition, do not qualify as tax deductions, so 1 make this request to the Treasurer again. 
In considering these 2 Appropriation Bills I would like to point out to honourable members the competence of the Public Accounts Committee and the role it performs in helping this House to control such financial Bills as come before it, including Appropriation Bills. I would hope that the Parliament would not under-estimate the role of this Committee, which is so ably chaired by the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham),  but I would like to say that it is seldom that this House seriously considers the financial management of the country. At the present time the only way and the only forum for this House to control the financial system and its ramifications is through the Public Accounts Committee. I would hope that we would see the reports of the Public Accounts Committee which are brought to this House debated in the same manner as is being done these days with reports coming forward from the Public Works Committee, which in turn is so ably headed by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  1 hope that in this House we will follow the system that is followed in the House of Commons in that members of the Public Accounts Committee will see their way clear to commenting on the report within the Parliament. As we are aware, in the Commons members of the Public Accounts Committee speak on specific sections of the reports and this brings into the House itself a realisation not only of the work that is done by the Committee but also of the ramifications of the important role that Parliament should be undertaking in the financial management of the country. 
In conclusion, I would like to express my personal regret that a very well known and loved member of the Public Accounts Committee,  Senator Joe  Fitzgerald, was forced to resign today from the Committee due to ill health. 1 would like recorded in Hansard my own personal appreciation of the dedicated work he gave to that Committee for many years. I hope that this reduction in his duties will help him in his medical recovery. 
I address a question to the Minister for Supply. Having regard to certain inquiries conducted by the Public Accounts Committee over recent years and the comment by the Auditor-General in his latest report regarding the purchase of certain vehicular equipment bearing on procurement arrangements, can the Minister advise the House what principles and associated administrative arrangements currently operate when Australian and overseas firms tender for goods and services? 
While this is a very restricted debate, my purpose in rising to speak briefly in it is to remind the House not only of the value of the Public Works Committee, which is obviously known to members on both sides, but also to remind this House in our bicameral Parliament of the value of having joint statutory committees. I believe that the matters raised by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  will be adequately and more properly answered and commented upon by the  Chairman  of the Committee, the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  I would like to remind the House that when public works items are referred, as they must be under the Public Works Committee Act, to the Public Works Committee for scrutiny they are not being referred to some select committee or standing committee being a lesser part of one House or the other. They are in fact referred to a legally constituted statutory authority of the whole Parliament, thereby representing both Houses, operating conjointly through a committee and encompassing also capacities available from both sides of each chamber. The importance of this lies in the fact that the views of the joint statutory committees truly reflect the views of the Parliament as distinct from the views of one House or the other. 
It might be noted that the importance of this cardinal principle of parliamentary operations has been recognised lately, it would seem, by the United Kingdom Government as well. We are all very much aware that through its long struggles the British Parliament has developed into 2 distinct Houses. This has given rise historically to the development of committees in one House or the other. Because of this it is now most interesting to note the recently expressed views of the United Kindom Government that there would appear to be scope for the development of joint House committees designed to consider matters that are not controversial in a party policy sense. As recently as last year the British Government was known to be considering proposals for this purpose. 
As honourable members are aware, the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia has 3 joint statutory committees, including the committee whose appropriation is under review today. The other two, of course, are the Broadcasting of Parliamentary Proceedings and the Public Accounts Committees. 
In passing, I would hope that the work of select and standing committees of either House of this Commonwealth Parliament is not underestimated or understated. But we should be very much aware that the role of the joint committees, including the joint statutory committees, should likewise not be understated or underestimated by any member of this House or the Senate. There can be no doubt that the joint statu tory committees are engaged in work which is clearly in the public interest. However, there are only 9 members of the Public Works Committee and only 10 of the Public Accounts Committee. These  Te  indeed slender resources of membership, having regard to the growth areas of responsibility confronting these committees. At a time when we are considering an increase in the appropriation of the Public Works Committee from $20,000 to $30,000, as outlined in the Bill before us, to meet the increased allowances and travelling costs of the existing membership, I put it to this House that it might turn its mind with considerable advantage to the question of providing not only the Public Works Committee but also the Public Accounts Committee with increased membership from both Houses. 
The governing Acts of these 2 committees provide for sectional committee operations. While it is pleasing to me as a former Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee to note that that Committee has recently decided to make maximum use of its sectional committee powers, I believe, based on my personal experience of 5 years membership, that this Committee would benefit greatly from increasing its membership from all represented parties in both Houses. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the sitting was suspended I had been mentioning the need and the advisability for the 2 joint standing committees - the Public Accounts Committee and the Public Works Committee - to use more of their sectional committee powers. Allied to this I see a pressing need for both committees to be adequately serviced by professional staff of the highest quality. The efforts of present and past staffs should be properly acknowledged by this House, and these resources should be further strengthened, not only in the interests of this Parliament but also in the interests of sound public administration. 
Unfortunately, time does not permit me to canvass these issues in greater depth, but in acknowledging the increasing workload of the Public Works Committee by passing the Bill which authorises a proper increase in expenditure in payments to its 9 members, this House will be implicitly accep- ting my thesis relating to the abiding importance of joint statutory committees which reflect, in very real terms, the views of the Parliament and not those of either this House of Representatives or the Senate alone. Mention was made by the honourable member for Hughes of the desirability for these parliamentary committees to remain non-political. I would suggest that, unless they are strictly non-political, the role of all parliamentary committees in reporting to the House will be doomed. I support the Bill and commend both committees for the fine work they are doing on behalf of this House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
I am pleased to have this opportunity to speak briefly on this important Bill. As the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Garland),  who introduced this Bill into the House in May, mentioned, it is certainly in Australia's best interest for this Government to continue its policy of supporting the Asian Development Bank by taking up, in full, the increase in capital subscription to which Australia is entitled under the terms mentioned in the Bill before the House. Furthermore, I believe that Australia should proceed to take up the increase to which it is entitled as soon as possible. 
The tentative deadline is set for 30th September this year, and although this may be extended to 28th February next year, I believe it is important that Australia should be seen to take us its options as soon as possible. Member countries are not obligated to subscribe to this authorised increase and in fact, as the Minister mentioned, there are some member countries who are still in doubt as to whether they should take up the increases to which they are entitled. This is therefore an opportunity for Australia, by early subscription, to set an example among donor countries and to encourage other donors to the Asian region to weigh in with their contributions. It is worth recalling that the basic role of international development banks is to supplement, and add  10,  the flow of aid going to developing countries from Government sources. The banks have available to them large amounts of capital from donor governments, which is not paid in but is callable and thus serves as a guarantee for their borrowing activities on the capital markets of the world. The banks then re-lend the amounts they have borrowed to the developing countries at relatively low rates of interest. The developing countries themselves either do not have access to these markets or else would have to pay far higher rates of interest. The international development banks thus add substantially to the amounts of capital available to the poorer countries of the world for development purposes. 
The Asian Development Bank was established to promote investment in the Asian region of public and private capital for developmental purposes. I believe Australians should derive some satisfaction from the fact that, of the present subscribers to the capital stock of the Asian Development Bank, Australia is the third largest of the regional members coming after Japan and India, while among the non-regional members only the United States of America contributes more than Australia. This heavy capital commitment by Australia surely reflects the sincere wish of this Liberal Government to assume all its responsibilities in the South East Asian area, whether they be matters of security, education, commerce or finance. There is no question on this side of the House that we should not accept this added involvement in a venture which must be regarded as a vital part of Australia's total overseas aid. 
The technical financial details relating to our involvement have been clearly set out in the second reading speech and it is not my intention to take the time of the House in re-telling them. But I would like to recall that as at 31st December last year the Asian Development Bank had approved 87 loans in 16 developing member countries aggregating SUS639.4m. This is no mean effort for an institution which was established only 5 years earlier. In addition to its regular lending activities, the Bank also lends at very low rates of interest to the poorest of its member countries. This lending comes from the soft' window of the Bank - its  special  funds. Of the loans that have already been made $US100m have come from these special funds. As the Bank's regular lending increases following this newly authorised increase in capital it is my hope that the volume of 'soft' lending will also increase. This, of course, will require an expansion of its special funds, and I was pleased to see the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  indicate in another place that when the Bank has formulated a proposal for the expansion of these funds Australia will be ready to accept its responsibilities in this field of 'soft' lending. It will go a long way towards overcoming some of the criticisms that are being levelled at the Asian Development Bank about the countries to which its main lending seems to be heading. 
It is a significant reflection of the self help nature of this Bank that of its membership of 37 countries, 23 are from the Asian region, and the Asian regional members have contributed two-thirds of the paid up capital of. the Bank, and have accepted responsibility for a similar proportion of the callable capital as well. It is woath while reminding the House that Papua New Guinea stands as a member of the Asian Development Bank in its own right, although at the time of Papua New Guinea being accepted as a member, Australia agreed to stand behind Papua New Guinea's obligations until such time as it was able to take over these responsibilities for itself. A loan of $US4.5m was approved by the Bank on concessional terms from its special funds for the Papua New Guinea Development Bank late last year. This loan allowed the Papua New Guinea Development Bank to expand its own lending to small businesses and  Other  development activities with special  emphasis  on indigenous enterprise. 
Although this type of legislation sounds as though it is concerned only with international finance and capital markets, in reality and in practical terms the increased bank lending which it will permit will, among other things, facilitate loans to personal and small scale enterprises by the indigenous population - not only in Papua New Guinea through its own Development Bank, but also in many other Asian countries. 

 Mr Speaker, this is no remote financial measure requiring a mere formal acceptance by the Parliament. It is an extension of an aid programme which demonstrates the Libera] Government's concern and practical involvement in the needs of the Asian region. I commend the Bill to the House. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  it will come as no surprise to you to realise that I do nol agree with the remarks of the last  speaker,  the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  I believe that there can be no doubt that the Budget we are discussing has proved to be very popular with the public. More importantly, I believe that it has proved itself to be a responsible Budget in every regard. It is fair to say that the Budget has tackled the economic situation truthfully. It has shown that this McMahon Liberal-Country Party Government is concerned with the welfare of every section of the community, and its concern for the social welfare of all Australians has been clearly demonstrated. 
What this Budget has highlighted, in effect, is that, contrary to what the Opposition has said during this Budget debate, the Government has been prepared to lay its cards on the table and to show the people of Australia not only What it is going to do but also what is to be done right now. The reduction in personal income taxation is immediate. The size of the tax deductibility which has been set to favour the family man and to assist oneincome families is not only popular; it is proper, just and immediate. We have shown that when the Government speaks it acts. We have shown that the Government means business. 
As a former Secretary of the Government Members' Taxation Committee 1 am particularly pleased to see the fundamental and progressive change in the tax structure provided for in the Budget.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  it is not my intention to go through the Budget and discuss the general economic situation. That has been adequately and very well covered by members on this side of the House. I do support the concept of a deficit Budget in these times that require stimulation, and I believe it has been correct economic strategy to have followed the paths that have been laid down by the Federal Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in this most successful Budget. 
There have been some splendid speeches on this side of the House, not the least of which was the speech by the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  who properly posed the question regarding the response of the spending public to this Budget, for it would be truthful to say that no government could have done more with the tools of the Budget available to it, to have stimulated economic growth, than has been done in this Budget. We now have to wait and see whether the concessions which have been made, whether the Budget strategy that has been mapped, will have the desired effect of getting the public to spend wisely as well as save wisely, and to spend money for consumer items. However, as the honourable member for Moore so clearly pointed out, the Government has not been static, it has not waited for the Budget before bringing in measures to stimulate the economy during 1972. It is, I repeat, a good Budget and one that has had no meaningful or fundamental criticism. Having been in the field of economics before coming into this House, I am particularly impressed with the overwhelming support that has come from economists normally highly critical of all things in the economic field. 
But what of the Opposition? What have we heard from the Opposition? Quite surprisingly we find members of their front bench are, in the main, giving personal opinions only. We find that the shadow Treasurer of the past 18 years, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  one of the most responsible men in the Opposition, when questioned on speeches he has made regarding Labor Party policy on income tax deductions, not committing his Party but rather, if I can quote one of the newspapers, exploiting some ruminations of his own as distinct from actual Federal Labor policy. 
What then is the policy of the Labor Party on the deductions and the structure of the taxation system itself? Who in this House will do more than give a personal opinion? Who in this House can or will give the policy of the Labor Party vis-a-vis present economic and social conditions? We have seen a situation wherein the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has claimed that he will now bring the means test abolition by his Party from a declared and presumably agreed 6-year programme back to match that which has been brought into this Budget by the Government. Is this more exploitation of personal ruminations, or has the Leader of the Party the power to declare policy without reference to the Federal Executive of his Party? Is there any basis for assuming that the statement by the Labor Parliamentary Leader can be more than a mere recital of his personal thoughts and ambitions? 
The Leader of the Opposition, after a Budget speech wherein he had limitless time - and we should remember that the Leader of the Opposition, by tradition, had no limit to the time available to him - immediately upon leaving the House after his Budget speech, makes a statement that he believes the value of Australian currency should be changed. No mention of this vital economic subject was made in what must be regarded as his annual economic assessment. No, it was a post-speech Press release. Yet we find another member of the front bench of the Labor Party, the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  who has mentioned the subject of currency values in this House, going on to say that when his Leader spoke outside the House on this most vital subject relating to economic planning and economic assessment, he, the Leader of the Opposition, was speaking from personal reminiscence only. And for once, we hear the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  agreeing with the honourable member for Dawson on matters relating to economic rural policy, and we find the honourable member for Riverina putting in his bid and saying that the Leader of the Opposition is speaking personally and not officially for the Labor Party. 
How many of the Labor Party front bench, how many of the Labor Party speeches during this Budget debate have represented Labor Policy, how many have represented personal opinion? There is no doubt this question must be related to the Leader of the Opposition, my good friend the honourable member for Melbourne Ports, the honourable member for Dawson, and perhaps even the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  Are they speaking personally whenever they speak in this House? If their reference, at all times, on all subjects, cannot be resolved among themselves, must they go to the Federal Executive of their Party for approval? Of course they must. And yet we are asked to believe that in response to this excellent Budget brought down by the Government, the Opposition will amend its time programme for the abolition of the means test; nothing else, just a date for the abolition of the means test. Presumably those in the Opposition who have spoken on currency revaluation have also proffered personal opinions only. What, in all the contributions from the Opposition during this Budget debate, represents solid Labor policy on this subject? 
Even last night when talking on the enquiry into poverty, we find the honourable member for Oxley stating what he would do personally. Like many members on this side of the House, as I listened to the Budget speech given by the Leader of the Opposition on 22nd August I began to think that we were listening to the Labor policy. I began to think that as we listened to the beautifully worded and exquisitely phrased speech by the Leader of the Opposition, here at last was a statement on Labor policy regarding current economic problems. Whatever else it was, the speech was certainly no such economic analysis. That same speech did not contain a reference to currency revaluation, the subject which within that very night the Leader of the Opposition was to regard as being of national importance and of vital significance to the country at the present moment. The Leader of the Opposition was, in fact, making good prose. He was certainly not making economic sense. He was not presenting an alternative economic assessment. He remained, as ever, personal. 
But so much for the Opposition, so much for the Leader of the Opposition's grand strategy. All we want and all the public want is some statement, some official statement, on some major policy, to bring the voters into the secret which the Labor Party has kept a mystery right up to date. Perhaps the Leader of the Opposition does not think it is necessary; perhaps the Leader of the Opposition is concerned that when he does announce his economic policy it will be economically irresponsible and socially incompetent. Let us hear in the remaining time in this debate some firm statements about the costing of Labor policies, let us hear some of the honourable members opposite tell us what they think is Labor policy when their leaders speak, and what they think is personal statement. The voting public is keen to know. What is known is that this is a popular Budget, and that the voters appreciate the real advantages they have gained from it. 
One of the features of the Budget and related Government moves shows that this Government is declaring itself .publicly, for public scrutiny. Let us see the Labor Party do the same thing and let the Opposition benches get down to some of , the 'nittygritty'. What would the Opposition have done for the pensioners now;, what would the Opposition have done for; returned servicemen now; what would the alternative Government that sits on the Opposition benches have done for the family man now; what would the Opposition have done for the disabled now?. Let us hear some frank statements of policy from that side of the House related to present economic conditions and the- . assessment of honourable members opposite/of the economic future of this country. . . 
As I mentioned earlier, the LiberalCountry Party Government has shown a total concern for the social welfare of all Australians in this Budget. In the field of repatriation benefits I believe that it is one of the most effective Budgets' we have yet seen. I have had many favourable responses in my own electorate from exservicemen and their families, whether they are in receipt of a Service pension or not. With all the hoo-ha going on in the Press at the present time about wasting money on repatriation benefits, I remind those people who are being hypercritical of the system that there is an element in repatriation benefits which revolves around the basis of common decency. It is based on the premise that those people who have served their country in times of peril and have suffered as a result should receive remuneration for, and equally important, recognition of their services to their country. Furthermore, my experience as a member of the Federal Parliament when helping many of my constituents in thenappeals against appeal tribunal determinations has been that it is not an easy task to have such a determination changed on medical grounds. 
In regard to social services, it is fair to repeat that proposals in this field provide the most dramatic and extensive changes in our social service system that the Federal Parliament has ever known. The precise figures have been repeated constantly throughout this debate and had I the time 1 would go through them all again, for they certainly are well worth repeating. I believe that the increase in the basic rates of pensions has been very well received. However, 1 am concerned that all the beneficiaries provided for in the Budget are not as yet fully aware of what they are to receive. I doubt whether many married pensioners are aware that it is now possible for them to earn $60 a week and still receive the full pension and that part pensioners will continue to be paid until their means reach $103.50 a week, in the case of a married couple, before the pension cuts out. 
I believe that the new means test that will be applied by this Budget will be of particular interest and of great benefit to ali who are already on superannuation. It will be of great comfort to the hundreds of thousands of people who will reach 65 years of age in the near future and of great solace to their families as well. The Budget certainly provides a new deal for pensioners and many of my constituents with whom I have had contact in the past 2 weeks have been frankly unbelieving. 1 have spoken to many of my constituents who made applications over the years for allowances as pensioners' wives and were told that they were not entitled to receive them. When I told one constituent last week that he would receive an increase of $16.25 a week he frankly did not believe me. When this Liberal-Country Party Government, which the last  speaker,  the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  claimed has no regard for a social conscience in this country, introduced the tapered means test 3 years ago people did not believe that they were entitled to the pensions they went on to receive. I hope the Department of Social Services will again conduct an extensive advertising campaign not only in the daily Press but also in the suburban Press throughout Australia to tell the people that they are entitled to receive pensions and to tell them to apply for those pensions. It has been estimated that the liberalisation of the means test will make over 50,000 people eligible for some part of the pension for the first time and the interesting point is that they must apply for the pension. As we know, those already receiving a pension will have their pensions increased automatically but those people who will become entitled to a pension for the first time will have to make an application to the Department. I suggest to the Government that it spares no effort in informing of the fact, those people in the community who will be entitled to a pension under the new proposals. 
There are 2 more points in the field of social services that I would like to repeat for they have not received the publicity that they should have received. Firstly, I would like to mention the new payment of $14 a week which will be given subject to medical certification to those people caring for sick, aged persons in their own homes. This is a most humane move and I commend the Government for having introduced this measure. Again, there is a need for people to be told about this new benefit and I would hope that members of the Press, who manage to write so much about the Government, will have the fairness on this occasion to give plenty of publicity to this new proposal. The second point which again was mentioned by one daily newspaper only in Australia was the Government's decision to impose strict controls on fees charged by nursing homes for the aged as part of the Government's new plan to assist patients and their families. This is one of the most forthright proposals contained in the Budget. The stringent new controls will prevent exploitation of people in hardened circumstances and again I hope that we will receive plenty of publicity from the Press in regard to this matter, not because this will advantage the Government - we are far too noble to suggest that - but so that those who are entitled to the benefit will eventually receive this advantage. Of course I support the Budget and of course I oppose the superficial and, I presume, personal amendment which has been moved by the Leader of the Opposition. 
Because we have you on our side of the House. In conclusion, I would like to express the personal satisfaction I received when the Royal Lifesaving Society of Australia and the Surf Lifesaving Association of Australia received an increase in the grants in aid from the Department responsible to the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  who is now sitting at the table. I can assure the Minister that the increase pf $16,000 which I was privileged to support on behalf of each body has been well received; they are very grateful for it. The other point I would like to make in regard to grants in aid and which again has gone unheralded is that this Goverment, which is said to have no concern for conservation or for the ecology of the country, has managed to increase its grant in aid to the Australian Conservation Foundation by 300 per cent. 
As I started my speech by saying, this is one of the finest Budgets that We have ever seen in the Federal Parliament. It is a Budget that, I repeat, has received no meaningful or fundamental criticism either in this House or around the country. It is significant that those who give economic advice on all matters to all sections of the community have been surprisingly supportive of this Budget. I commend it not just to the House and I support it not just as a Government supporter but I also commend it for what it will do for the future of Australia. 
Is the Minister for Customs and Excise aware of recent Press reports that at least 20 babies have died in France following the use of a talcum powder which contains the wrong proportion of the chemical hexachloropene? In view of the great concern that this has caused in Australia, a concern which has been reflected in a very large number of inquiries from constituents in my electorate of Cook, can the Minister inform the House whether any importations of the powder into Australia have occurred and, if so, what steps are being taken to prevent their sale? Can he inform the House also whether steps are being taken to prevent its importation in the future? 
I have been interested in the remarks of the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  on the availability and desirability of various forms of export finance and export credit. I hope I will not offend him when I say thatI believe that the matter of export credit is not as simplistic as he has described it to the House. It is not just a matter of what the Government will do; it is not just a matter of what the trading banks have done or have not done; it is not just a matter of who finances marine insurance; and it is not just a matter of saying to traders that the credit is available and therefore trade shall flow. I believe that the establishment of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation many years ago was one of the significant moves in the growing sophistication of the credit market of Australia. 
I have debated this matter with the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  on several previous occasions in this House. I was pleased to hear that both he and the honourable member for Blaxland support the principle of the Export 
Payments Insurance Corporation. There can be no denying that the Corporation has achieved its initial goal. One of the problems of financing exporters of goods from Australia is to provide them with an incentive to go beyond the domestic market, although we have had such facilities as forward exchange cover available for many years. 
The cold, hard truth of the matter is that Australian businessmen, irrespective of whether they bank with private trading banks or with the Commonwealth Trading Bank, still do not like to utilise forward exchange cover. I believe that more businessmen could in that way establish sound financial relationships with their overseas traders but the fact remains that the Export Payments Insurance Corporation remains the only practical form of protection against variations in exchange rates. This is what EPIC was formed for. This is what EPIC is all about. Fifteen years ago people were shy of moving into export markets and I believe that the 2 previous speakers from the other side of the House, were they to become informed on the export market, would find that people today are equally shy about it. 
It is not my intention to speak for very long on this matter as the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  is to make a statement directly, but one point I would like to make relates to what is the Labor Party's policy with regard to this type of finance. The honourable member for Blaxland was pleased with the general thought of export finance we provide under this legislation. The shadow Treasurer for the last 18 years, our good friend the honourable member for Melbourne Ports, has long said that he views it favourably but we have not heard from the Labor Party what it will do or to whom it will make this insurance available. We have heard in recent weeks the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  declare firmly and without any doubts - although we are told that this is his personal opinion only - that he will go for a qualitative control of insurance company investments. We know that it is part of the Labor Party's policy to have qualitative control of bank advances. 
I venture to say to the House today that I believe it is the policy of the Labor Party to bring in the same qualitative control over people who go for policies with EPIC. If it does not like you as an individual you will not get insurance under this scheme if Labor ever becomes the government. So when I heard the honourable member for Blaxland move into this area and say that he thought the Government should take over marine insurance I thought: 'Here we go again. The Labor Party is once more moving into the field of nationalising all forms of credit in our country.' Together with everybody else on this side of the House I strongly support the Export Payments Insurance Corporation and what happened 18 years ago. It will be interesting to see whether in 18 years time the honourable member for Blaxland relates what he has said today. This is a fine measure. It is helping Australian exports. I commend it to the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. - Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
 I was somewhat disappointed that the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  saw fit to comment on some of the private activities of the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer).  I have reason to believe that the honourable member undertakes some of these activities himself in the city of Adelaide. If I am wrong in that I apologise, but I have been told this on other occasions. However, it is not my point to bring this before the notice of the House; I mention it in reply to his implication aimed at the honourable member for Bennelong. 
I rise to speak in strong support of this most admirable Budget measure. In giving it my strongest possible support 1 am struck by the small number of speakers from the Australian Labor Party who previously had indicated a wish to debate this matter. I think this contrasts very sadly with the enthusiastic support that has come from this side of the House. The lack of speakers from the other side of the House could mean either that Labor supporters have great confidence in the capacity and capability of the few speakers who have spoken already - I have no doubt that is the case - or that honourable members opposite also support this legislation and will not rise to say so. After all, their 1971 Launceston conference endorsed and supported this Liberal-Country Party programme of assisting young home owners. 
Then again, the lack of Australian Labor Party speakers could mean that in considering this further development and widening of an already successful scheme to assist and encourage people to move into the first home of their own it has become obvious that the Opposition has no manageable or acceptable alternative method in which to assist this vitally important section of the community. The facts support this contention. In point of fact, there is little of interest in the Australian Labor Party's housing programme, apart from providing subsidies. At page 18 of the Platform, Constitution and Rules of the Australian Labor Party, as approved by the 29th Commonwealth Conference in 1971, it is stated that the Australian Labor Party will provide subsidies to institutional lenders to reduce by 2 per cent the rate of interest paid in the first 1 0 years of marriage. 
On a previous occasion the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  demonstrated clearly and effectively that this proposal of the Opposition will be unworkable. Since the Minister's denunciation it is an interesting fact that the Opposition has stopped mentioning this declared part of its socalled new housing policy, and so far in the debate today I have not heard one of its 3 speakers put it forward as a basic part of the Party's programme. Yet on every occasion this Government has brought in progressive policies in regard to housing the Opposition has tried to denigrate them in almost every possible way open to it. We have seen this happen again with this Bill. Yet no really sensible new policy has come from the other side of the House. In fact, it is fascinating to see that at least 2 of the policies as stated in the Australian Labor Party's official platform clearly endorse this Government's homes savings grant scheme as being one that it would keep if and when its members sit on the treasury benches of this Parliament. Why do honourable members opposite not mention this in their speeches? They do not say that they will remove the homes savings grant scheme. As stated in clause 7 on page 18 of its platform as decided at Launceston, the Opposition will remove such anomalies, as its sees them, such as the age limit of 36. 
Opposition speakers have mentioned a couple of other points. For the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  to call the scheme a bribe and for my political neighbour the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  to call it a gimmick is to go not against our scheme but to go against the platform and policy as publicly declared by their own Party. 1 believe the Government is to be congratulated without reservation on widening the scheme to include a property to the value of $22,500, increasing the size of the grant to a new maximum of $750 and, very importantly, raising the limit on the amount of savings made in any one year to $900. The reasons for these changes have been clearly spelt out by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  and other speakers on this side of the House. The reasons are sound and just. They fairly continue the joint purpose of this scheme to encourage young people to save for home ownership and to give much needed subsidies. However, I repeat that not enough is said of the incentive that this scheme has given to the young people of Australia to save for their first home. I believe that the homes savings grant scheme has caused a fundamental change in the spending and saving patterns among the young people of Australia since it was introduced 8 years ago. This is a factor which many economists have not examined or considered properly in their economic analyses. I would commend this subject to these economists for serious and deep economic research at all levels in our community. 1 am particularly pleased and personally pleased with the decision of the McMahon Government to ease conditions applicable to the recognition of savings in credit unions for the purpose of this scheme. As we know, the provisions have been changed so that where a credit union can show that not less than 20 per cent of the total amount lent to its members in the most recently completed financial year has been in the form of housing loans and undertakes to maintain this 20 per cent proportion each year, savings with such a credit union will be recognised by the homes savings grant scheme in the same way as savings in banks and building societies. It should be stressed in this debate that for the purposes of the Act as it applies to credit unions, a housing loan is defined as a loan to buy land, to buy or build a house, and to pay for associated expenses. This represents a significant easing of conditions and brings the homes savings grant scheme fairly and squarely into the important and fast growing credit union movement in Australia. Because of my long-standing interest in and association with credit unions, I am particularly pleased with this aspect of the Bill before the House. 
When I took part in the debate in this place on the Homes Savings Grant Bill in 1970 I said that the Government made no criticism of the credit union movement. Rather, in showing a concern to see that all forms of credit are available to the Australian community, I then stated that in this pattern the Government readily admits and welcomes the role of credit unions. I need hardly add that the decision by the Government now being considered is most certainly a very tangible reaffirmation of the Government's high regard for the important role of credit unionism in the Australian financial scene. Since speaking in the debate in 1970 it has been my privilege to attend 2 annual meetings of the New South Wales Credit Union League Limited as the representative of the Liberal Country Party Government, and this year I was privileged to be the guest  speaker  of that organisation on 7th April. Few honourable members in the present Parliament would be unaware of the remarkable growth that has taken place in the Australian credit union movement. Likewise, nobody who has been associated with any financial institution for any length of time can fail to be similarly impressed. Any financial institution that can increase its assets from S6m in 1960 to $I25m 10 years later is to be studied closely and regarded highly. 
 Tom, you made that interjection in 1970. Its future must be the concern of all whose interests are in the field of economic management and financial development. Professor Neil Runcie is such a person and I commend his fine book on the subject of credit unions to all who hear or read this speech of mine. Credit unions, because of their very self help nature  -  I wish on this occasion the member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  were in the House - are stable and efficient members of the Australian financial community. At present the role of the Commonwealth Government is secondary to the State governments' as far as controlling authority is concerned. I am happy that there is an excellent relationship between the Credit Union League and the New South Wales State Liberal Government at least, and that both parties have publicly stated this fact. 
As for the role of the Commonwealth Government, we come into the picture only when there is some special matter such as income tax law or provisions attaching to the Homes Savings Grant Act. Regarding the former. I believe that the New South Wales Credit Union League is continuing its fight for tax relief, but I do not intend to discuss this matter which lies beyond the ambit of the Bill before us. As far as the homes savings grant aspect is concerned, certainly the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  who also takes a keen interest in the credit union movement, and I recall the controversy that developed about the relevance of fairness of the conditions which were applied in 1970 to permit acceptance of savings with a credit union then approved for the purposes of the scheme. As I mentioned in my speech to the Credit Union League in April of this year, the fact that no credit union had formally sought to be so approved suggested that a lot more negotiation would be the order of the day between the credit union movement and the Government. Such negotiation and reconsideration by the Government is evidenced by this easing of conditions to which reference has already been made. I believe that the credit union movement is very pleased and I would like to quote  Mr Dermot  Ryan, Chief Executive Officer of the Australian Federation of Credit Union Leagues, who was reported in the August 1972 edition of the 'Credit Union Quest', when speaking of credit unions, as&lt; follows: 
We are grateful that the Government has accepted our submission that the conditions in the Act should be drastically eased. The conditions now to be deleted made it impossible for any credit union in Australia to qualify. We are hopeful that every credit union will now be able to qualify within  a  reasonable time. 
Congratulations are in order both for the dedicated and devoted leaders of the credit unions and, I may say, for the Federal Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  who has shown a rare quality not only to come to grips with the detailed intricacies of home finance but also to understand the broad economic and social responsibilities that governments must assume in this field. 

 Mr Speaker, I have already said on several occasions that it remains for individual credit unions to determine whether they shall move more earnestly into housing loans, as now defined by the Act. It is a problem, now, for individual credit unions to work out for themselves. I have no doubt that many of these credit unions will follow overseas trends and move into the area of home financing to a sufficient degree to qualify. As I have mentioned in this House before, there is a diverse pattern in overseas credit leagues and I have every confidence that the Australian credit unions which decide to qualify for recognition under the homes savings grant scheme will do so responsibly and with as little disturbance as possible to their current lending patterns. 
The credit union movement by its self help nature, brings with it stability and efficiency at local levels which, in turn, bring about low costs of operation and a low incidence of bad debts. However, another great philosophical advantage of the credit unions, whose underlying philosophy is the acceptance of the ethic that we are our brother's keeper, is that each credit union has its own local control and decisionmaking process. There is strong evidence that credit unions in country areas are assuming the independent decisionmaking role that branch bank managers enjoyed many years ago. This local control, local interest and local concern is a precious element in the credit union movement, and I hope that the extension of the homes savings grant scheme to facilitate the inclusion of credit unions will not see any largescale amalgamation or centralising of authority and decision making. 
I have limited my remarks on the credit union aspect of this Bill. The whole subject of credit unionism is one which deserves greater debate in this House, but then so do all financial matters. However, I would remind the credit union movement, as I did at the recent opening of the new premises for the ABC Staff Employees Credit Union, that it is no use looking to the Australian Labor Party and thinking that it is going to control qualitatively and quantitatively all other forms of available credit in Australia and leave the credit union movement alone. Members of the credit union movement should ponder the thought when the Australian Labor Party makes its rash promises about what it will do for the credit unions - and there was much of this at the opening of the premises that I have referred to - and remember that any government that is big enough to give everything is also big enough to take it away. This legislation extending the homes savings grant scheme is good. It is timely. It is a further step in the right direction. I strongly support it and the philosophy behind it. 
by leave - As the immediate past  Chairman  of the Public Accounts Committee I welcome the speech of the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  I have advocated for a long time that this House should debate the reports of this Committee. We have seen it happen with the Public Works Committee reports, I think, to the advantage of the Parliament. I would hope that with all ensuing reports that come before the House we will see a similar type of debate on the reports of the Public Accounts Committee. I commend the statement by the present  Chairman (Mr Graham),  and I certainly commend the  Deputy Chairman  for his remarks here today. I hope their speeches are the start of something new in this House. 
I ask the Minister for Education and Science a question. In view of his public invitation on Friday last to the Leader of the Opposition can the Minister advise whether there has been any response from the honourable gentleman to the Minister's invitation to debate the national issues of education at a public meeting to be held in my electorate of Cook on 13th October? 
 The estimates we are debating have to cover the most widespread and diverse activities of any Federal department as they are presently defined. In this variety of activities I would like to mention that section which relates to grants to national organisations. The Government has cause to be proud of its actions in this field. I congratulate the Government on its decision to increase its aid to the Surf Life Saving Association from $36,000 to$50,000. There is no worthier group in Australia, I know how relieved the National Council of the SLSA was when it heard the news. Both  Mr Speaker  and I, as the honourable members for Phillip and Cook, had received representations from the surf clubs. I know 
I speak for both of us when 1 say how pleased we were when we were asked to make representations on behalf of the clubs for this increase. 
Time in this debate does not permit me to do justice to the hard-working, dedicated people who conduct the life saving clubs or to do justice to the work they do on our beaches. It is true to say that they undertake a most Australian of Australian activities. If the SLSA did not exist, the average Australian would not be able to enjoy that greatest of our natural resources for recreation - the golden surfing beaches for which Australia has justified its world reputation. However, if there is not some co-ordinated serious research undertaken into the causes of beach erosion around the continent then we may, in my own electorate for sample, see in the not too distant future the day when there are no natural beaches for the lifesavers to patrol or for the public to enjoy. 
Already Cronulla beach is like Waikiki in that most of its sand is brought to an otherwise sandless area. This research might be undertaken by the newly established Institute of Marine Science or again it might be undertaken by the Maritime Services Board of New South Wales at its magnificent hydrological research establishment on Botany Bay. However, I do hope that in the coming 12 months this serious matter of beach erosion and the causes thereof will be referred to some coordinating authority, for example the Austraiian Environment Council for consideration. As honourable members will realise, the Council is chaired by the Minister for Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, who is at the table, and the several States are represented by the appropriate State Ministers. 
I believe that the problem of beach erosion is national in its extent and requires a combined Federal-State government solution. Of course, the Federal Liberal Government has readily and generously accepted the need for its responsibility for financial aid in times of such national disasters as the cyclone in Queensland last summer. But I am suggesting that the need for serious and co-ordinated research into the causes of beach erosion should be recognised and accepted as a joint CommonwealthState area of responsibility and action. Many individual theories about beach erosion come forward, and I cannot recall having visited any annual general meeting of a surf club in my own electorate in the past 7 years or so - and I attend them all - when the problem of beach erosion has not been seriously discussed. I commend my earlier suggestion on this subject to the Minister. 
The second grant to which I would like to direct a few remarks is the grant of $150,000 which has been made to the Australian Conservation Foundation. I would like to quote the Foundation's executive who said in its September 1972 newsletter 
I will . repeat the amount for the honourable member for Sturt, lt is $150,000, which is 3 times the original grant. The executive of the Foundation said in its September 1972 newsletter: 
We are most grateful to the Australian Government for its prompt action in providing such a useful grant. 
It will enable the Foundation to continue its task of re-organising for. the future; its administrative machinery has been strained far beyond ils capacity. 
I was interested to see that this grant will allow the Foundation now to employ a chief executive officer and I am sure that al! honourable members will be interested to know that the Foundation is offering him a salary of $20,000. Honourable members on the other side of the House may be interested in applying for this position after November, or whatever the date of the election is to be. 
The sincerity of the Government must be obvious to all in that the Commonwealth is moving ahead as quickly as its constitutional power permits into encouraging this great field of conservation. To those of us who have had a lifetime interest in the preservation and protection of national parks this is most gratifying. I would also commend the decision of the Minister to make an initial grant of $20,000 to the Keep Australia Beautiful Council. In my own electorate " there are several organisations which have been formed to protect local areas of natural beauty or to restore them. In particular I  am thinking of the Save Kurnell Committee with which I have been associated and to which I give my full personal and public support, The Save Kurnell Committee represents an interested and active group of local residents who are concerned about the future development of the Kurnell peninsula. I would like to put forward their resolution of action as decided 2 years ago. At that time they decided that they would move that all unoccupied land on the Kurnell peninsula be zoned as country open space; that all lands adjacent to the Captain Cook landing place be so zoned and be added to the original reserve; that Towra Point be left in its natural condition for educational, scientific and passive recreational purposes; that the remaining ground zoned as country open space will be available for active recreational purposes; and that the Kurnell Committee present their plan to the Government for approval 
Along with many other interested people in my area, including the present Chief Secretary of New South Wales, I spent a field day a year or so ago with this organisation and I believe that it was amply illustrated to the people outside my electorate, as well as to many inside it, that saving the Kurnell peninsula is indeed a very fine example of conservation being organised at the local level. Kurnell is a great heritage for Australia and I look forward to very strong support being given to the Save Kurnell Committee from the Australian Conservation Foundation. I certainly continue to support the Committee's aims and activities. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a short article on the brief history of Kurnell which has been written by the Secretary of the Sutherland Historical Society. 
I thank the House. Time does not allow honourable members to cover adequately the activities of the Department of the Environment. Aborigines and the Arts. However, I would just say that it is a very interesting fact that whereas the Labor Party has been saying for a very long time that all the ecology, environment and conservation problems of Australia should be compounded into a responsibility of one monstrous, huge centralised organisation here in Canberra, this has never been, and never will be, I am sure, the policy of the Liberal-Country Party Government. I mention this fact today merely to point out that it is fascinating to see, from what has been said by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  who is the Labor Party's spokesman on these matters, that the Labor Party has finally come round to agreeing with Liberal Party policy on this matter and has agreed that the Federal Government should not adopt a policy of controlling and activating all actions in this field. I commend the policies of the Government; I commend its activities in this vital, and may I say, newly discovered field of political interest in Australia. 
I am sorry that we did not hear the quotation from the honourable member for the ACT  (Mr Enderby)  who has just spoken. I can only hope that the quotation he missed giving us was more appropriate to the subject of aid than his speech was. I think we should bear in mind when we talk of aid given by the large European and developed countries that the aid given by Australia is in the form of direct aid and that the aid given by the large European developed countries is in the form of credit, loans and tied aid right along the line. Talk to Asian countries, talk to African countries or talk to any country that has received aid from Russia, for example. Talk to the Indonesian's and see what they think of the aid they received from the eastern European countries. It is certainly a strange story. 
While we are talking about quotes, let me quote what our Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  said is really the main purpose of Australian aid. It is strange that honourable members from the other side of the House are interjecting. The Prime Minister said that the purpose of the Australian aid programme is: 
To assist with the economic development of other countries. We do not want recipients to tell us of their everlasting gratitude and friendship for Australia. We do not use it as a substitute for trade promotion. Our aid should always maintain the primary characteristic of being humanitarian and moral. 
That is the policy of this Liberal-Country Party Government in the field of aid. If some members of the Opposition had stopped to talk to some of the people of the Asian countries around which they have traipsed about what they think of our aid programmes, they would get a reaction favouring Australia's policy in regard to aid. They would be told the truth about the aid that comes from some of the European countries. One only has to go to the suburbs of Djakarta to see the rotting machinery that has been left there by the Russians. One need only go to the Indian sub-continent to see some of the other aid that has been given by western countries and which is lying rotting on the ground. 
I was not going to talk about aid tonight; I intended to talk about the South Pacific. But I think we should bear in mind that we are talking about these estimates. We are talking about the appropriation that is being sought by the Department of Foreign Affairs in Appropriation Bill (No. 1). I invite all honourable members on both sides of the Chamber to look at page 43 of the Bill that we are discussing. They will see that the aid for which the approval of the House is being sought represents an increase of nearly $7m over the previous year. 
It does not convey anything to the honourable member for Sturt, but it does convey a lot to the countries that will receive this untied aid from Australia. Let us look at some of the things. 
I will give the honourable member time to work out the percentage. Let us look through the actual figures. 
It may be a bit much, but I gave him the offer. I can yell louder than the honourable member if I want to. We see from the Bill that special aid to Indonesia is to go up from $9m to S 12m a year. We see that the South Pacific aid programme, on which I was hoping to speak tonight, moving from Sim to $1.6m. We see every conceivable area of aid being increased and we do not see any of it tied to Australian credits or to Australian manufacturers. It is not tied. This is aid, as declared by the Australian Prime Minister - the Prime Minister who I am sure will lead us to a very resounding victory on 2nd December. 
I do not like to be political in an Estimates debate because this is far too serious a matter to be political about. I think the reality of our aid programme has been that it is not political; it has been related to countries that need aid, which is given in the form that they have wanted it. If we go to Nepal, Bhutan and some of the small countries of the world we will find that they have Australian aid. What possible political advantage is there in Australia giving aid to these small countries? There is none. This Government is giving aid for humanitarian purposes. I suppose there are many honourable member from both sides of the chamber who receive many letters, deputations and representations at the present time about the level of our aid programme. They all admit that the level of our aid programme has been solid and good and high, and they say it should be higher. This is desirable; of course it should be higher. But let us not overlook the fact that the community in Australia admits to the success of our aid programme and commends the Government for it. The increased aid to the South Pacific and to Indonesia, which has not as yet been included in these estimates, is further evidence of the Australian LiberalCountry Party Government's plan and intention to continue increasing its aid to countries less fortunate than Australia, and will continue to do this for as long as it is in government - and that will be for a very long time. 
I am sure that the honourable member for Mitchell will be here in 10 or 15 years time. 
Gladstone was even older. I was going to mention the fact that our aid to the South Pacific area concerns mainly training programmes. The great things we are doing in the South Pacific area relate to training programmes and one of the surprising things that I found when I visited Fiji on behalf of the Government in July was that nearly one-half of the training programmes related to administration programmes. Of course, we should be looking more towards the South Pacific area. 1 believe that as a Government we are. I believe that the aid we have been giving to Papua New Guinea has been of great assistance. Along with everybody on this side of the House who has shown a keen interest in the development and the sane progress of Papua New Guinea and the announcements made tonight, I think I must agree that Australia and Papua New Guinea will have to look more towards the South Pacific area than they have as yet done, because the South Pacific area is part of an area in which the political and constitutional change is dynamic. It is to Australia's - what shall I say - not advantage but its Australia's responsibility- 
Thank you. That is a good phrase. 
Not the same person as writes your speeches, I am glad to say.  Mr Cameron  cannot write speeches for me. I think Australia's performance in the South Pacific is something of which we can be justly proud, but above ali we have had an aid programme for which every Australian can thank *r  Federal Liberal-Country 
Party Government because it : has taken such a humanitarian and moral attitude in relation to it. 
I ask the Minister for Defence: Is it a fact that the shadow Minister for Defence recently visited Holland for the purpose of inspecting defence equipment. Will the Minister inform the House whether he gave any assistance to the shadow Minister with his arrangements while in Holland? Will the Minister inform the House of the purpose of the visit? 
I seek leave to make a short statement to the House. 
As the  Chairman  of the Public Accounts Committee during the first half of this Parliament I, too, would like to join in the tributes that have been paid by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  and the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman).  I should like to reemphasise to the House, which is the master of this Committee, that I would like to see in the future, as we have mentioned before, greater debates on reports that come forward from the Committee and a greater awareness on the part of this House of the financial matters that are discussed by the Committee. I hope that is something that we will see in the next Parliament. You,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  have occupied the position of  Deputy Chairman  of this Committee. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  who is at present in the House, is one of the most distinguished past members of the Committee. I hope that, with all the other reports that have come before the House today from parliamentary committees the reports of the Public Accounts Committee will not just be debated for the sake of debate but rather that there will be a growing awareness by individual members of what public finance is all about. Far too often do we hear criticism that the Parliament does not take any interest in the financial administration of the country. I regret to say that this is all too true. 
The tributes that have been paid to the staff are well deserved. The tributes that have been paid to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  are very well deserved. But I should like to say, in view of the criticisms and comments made by this Committee over the years, that it would be unfair if we did not also emphasise that one of the things that comes to the minds of all members of the Public Accounts Committee is the growing professionalism, the amazing dedication, of members of the Commonwealth Public Service. On some committees we tend to examine closely and to criticise, but let us not forget that underlying all this is a huge body of professional men and women who are serving this country very well. I commend the reports. I congratulate the members of the Committee for the excellent standard of their reports. I hope that in future the Public Accounts Committee will not be swamped by the proliferation of other committees of this House and that we will come to the stage where there is intelligent and continued non-partisan debate on the subject to be examined. 
-I ask the Minister for Transport whether his attention has been drawn to a recent Press report that a Trans-Australia Airlines captain, due to sudden ill health, was unable to continue in control of a jet aircraft he was piloting interstate. Can the Minister assure the House that medical examinations of air crew are carried out strictly in accordance with air safety regulations and that the Australian airlines take due notice of such medical examinations? 
I do not propose to take much of the House 's time. Having been a member of joint parliamentary committees for some 4 years or so and not having had the advantage of sitting in this place during the past 3 years when these matters were discussed, I should like at this time to add my support to the concept of Estimates committees and to endorse the hopes of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  for the establishment of such committees before the start of the winter recess. I do not agree with the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  I believe that probably enough work has gone into the question. But I should like just to mention one or two points that should be discussed in this House. No doubt members of the previous Committee went into great consideration of and deliberations on the terms of reference that they intended to put before the House for approval. However, I reemphasise and believe all of us in this House should re-emphasise the need for care to avoid possible conflict in the terms of reference for the already established committees and those that will apply for the new Estimates committees. 
Many of my colleagues, some of whom are sitting in the House today, have told me that the Public Accounts Committee, for example, has little relevance because it deals with past events and spends little time in determining what format should be considered when administering the public finances of the Commonwealth. Of course there is truth in this. I would commend to the Joint Committee on Committees for the Parliament that consideration be given to maintaining the Public Accounts Committee and that the PAC should remain non-controversial in the Party political sense. There is a good example to follow in the British and Indian practices whereby the public accounts committees, after putting their reports to their respective parliaments, have a significant annual debate wherein trends in public finance are discussed in detail. 
One of the problems of this House has always been that when matters of public finance are brought before it no real or meaningful debate takes place. No principles are established; no interest is shown. I think it is true for students of public and political science in this country to say that truly the Federal Parliament has absolutely no idea of how it is going to control public finance. So I believe that there should be considerable readjustment of the functions of the Public Accounts Committee if the Parliament is to agree to the establishment of a joint parliamentary estimates committee or, as is now being spoken of, the establishment of an estimates committee in the House of Representatives. Older members of the House will be aware of my keen concern, when  Chairman  of the Public Accounts Committee, to strengthen and streamline its operations. I am very pleased to say that such changes did take place under the fine leadership and chairmanship of the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham).  I compliment him and the members of those two joint parliamentary committees for the vital and important role that they played in the development of financial control coming from this House. 
Thank you. Time does not permit a full discussion of technical matters now. The Prime Minister in his speech in this House yesterday has shown himself to be very much aware of the need for 'improved financial scrutiny of the departments of the Executive '. I support that idea. I believe that the creation of an estimates committee of the House of Representatives will achieve just this. However, I believe it is fair to raise the question of whether an estimates committee can or should consider matters before they reach the House. It is important that any estimates committee in acting as a watchdog of proposed expenditure does not supplant the responsibility of the executive government. I beseech the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary 
Committee System to be cognisant of this fundamental factor and that lessons be learnt from the British system and the errors and trauma that Britain has lived through during the past 50 years in trying to establish a competent system of expenditure committees. 
I trust that the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System will also be aware of the need to be aware that the system of committees for each House being considered for our Commonwealth Parliament, though working under the traditions of the Westminster system and its general practice, is more akin to the United States system where independent committees from each of the Senate and the House of Representatives of that country run in parallel activity. The role of the Executive of this Parliament, as it is compared with the role of the executive government in the United States, must be clearly established in respect of the workings of any proposed estimates committees of this House which will run in parallel activity with the estimates committees of the Senate. I rather suspect that as yet such a clear definition has not been established. However, despite the many difficulties that I see I am sure that they can be overcome. I trust that at the least the report of the Joint Committee on Committees of the Parliament will be debated in full by this House on a strictly non-party basis. This is surely important enough to go beyond the bounds of party policy or loyalty, because surely the very future of parliamentary government in this country is at stake. Though that may sound dramatic, I put it to honourable members that perhaps this is as fundamental a change in parliamentary government in the federal system as we have seen for over 50 years. It is important that when the report of this Committee is tabled it is considered and that those of us on either side of the House will not be restricted by any party affiliations in our attitudes towards it. 
In conclusion, I strongly support the previous  speaker  in his claims about and comments on the staffing of the committees. For this new system of committees to work the staffing of committees must be senior and numerically sufficient to establish and maintain the standards that the new system will bring to this Parliament House. I should like to talk for a very much longer time on this matter. I envy those who have had the opportunity to appear before the previous committee. However, I sincerely trust that when the report is brought down here and a decision is made by the Parliament- not by the Governmenta full debate will be allowed and will ensue. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 -Mr Speaker, it is an honour to be back in this House again representing the constituents of Cook. I should like to thank the many folk who campaigned so resolutely to have the seat of Cook returned to the Liberal Party, not merely as part of the Fraser coalition team, but to support the principles, platform and policies of the Liberal Party of Australia which we have seen from the elections in December are clearly regarded by the vast majority of Australians as the only way to safeguard the future welfare of all Australians. But as the honourable member for Cook to what have I come back? The Governor-General's 
Speech referred to the fact that Australia now has the highest unemployment for over 40 years. In Cook, the Whitlam socialist policies and actions brought about unemployment for more than 3000 of my constituents at the end of last year. Half of those were aged under 2 1 years. Unemployment in Cook was not just the worst for over 40 years as a result of Labor's actions; unemployment of serious proportions was brought into the area for the first time ever. 
The socialist Governments of 1972 to 1975 stand condemned, not just for the record number of unemployed or the total economic uncertainty and chaos that Australia found itself in at the end of their rule, but also for the monstrous sense of hopelessness that has been engendered in the community, especially among the young. The false notion of a socialist Utopia that was so thoroughly propagated at the start of the 1970s by members opposite and their brethren who are no longer in the Parliament has been replaced by the harsh realisation that the socialist Utopia offered no career opportunities, no apprenticeships, no home finance and no real encouragement for doing one 's own thing; in fact, it offered no hope- no hope whatsoever. 
The Labor Government brought with it the despair and hopelessness of the early 1930s. It did its best to undermine the egalitarianism of Australian society. It strove to reintroduce class distinctions, an industrial and political elite, a racial background for social division. Its rush into an allegedly idealistic international Third World of socialism was further marred by the obvious personal ambitions of its individual members to achieve economic and social revolution while leaving their mark on the pages of Australian history. I mention these points for it is well to recall again and again why the Labor Party was beaten at the last election. The Australian community rejected the Labor Party for its actions and for its rush into revolution. It rejected the Labor Party for its divisiveness and for its disregard for traditional Australian values. The Australian community rejected the Labor Party for its inability to govern intelligently. The Labor Party stands condemned and shall remain condemned. 
With this background and with an unbelievable heritage of disarray after only 3 years of Labor Government, the responsibilities and tasks required of this Fraser coalition Government are awesome indeed. Many speakers on this side of the House have described and commented upon the policies that shall need to be followed for us to return to even a semblance of economic sanity. It is not my intention in this debate to discuss economic policy apart from strongly endorsing the contention of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that the control of inflation must have the No. 1 priority in all government action. For those of us in this House with a background in economic and or financial matters, the task quite obviously will be without much cheer in 1976. It will be an intolerable task unless we have the co-operation and the understanding of the whole Australian community in order to bring back confidence, not just in economic terms, but a confidence in Australia itself. 
One of the most obvious aspects of the Australian way of life has been the degree to which the average Australian gets involved in voluntary organisations. Who among us hi this Parliament has not been exposed as a daily event to the work and interests of community groups concerned with the welfare of the less fortunate or the less able? We take it as basic whenever we are considering the quality of life in our nation. In his Speech, the Governor-General on 17 February said: 
It is believed by the Government that voluntary welfare organisations are a critically important part of the Australian welfare system. 
And so they are. Whether the organisation is Meals on Wheels, the surf life saving movement, handicapped children's centres or whatever, the Government must not only accept its proper financial responsibility to those in need and unable to cope or care for themselves, but also it must encourage the voluntary organisations in our communities. 
One of the lamentable actions of the Whitlam regime was the way in which voluntary nongovernmental agencies were set back and downgraded. Perhaps the effect of the Labor Party was summed up very properly in the editorial in the October 1975 issue of  Rehabilitation in Australia.  This is the official publication of the Australian Council for Rehabilitation of Disabled, ACROD. I ask for leave to incorporate that editorial in  Hansard. 
-I thank the House. In effect, this editorial strongly condemns the last Government for continuing to give a low priority to the provision of services to handicapped people. A broader look at social welfare activities quickly reveals that the role of voluntary organisations was being downgraded very noticeably at the time of this Government's return to office. I was pleased to see such a strong mention in the Governor-General's Speech supporting the role and function of voluntary welfare organisations in the community and the strong assertion to continue financial assistance in this area as well as 'placing Public Service resources at their disposal through improving opportunities for transferability of staff between the Government and the non-government sector'. This is good news to the large number of voluntary organisations in my electorate of Cook which have been having a very tough time of it in the past 1 8 months or so. 
At this stage I would like to mention briefly the changing role of the Surf Live Saving Association of Australia, a most splendid and active organisation which has 4 clubs in my electorate. The value of this Association and its vital role in safeguarding Australians who use our surfing beaches for recreational purposes are well known and need no great comment. I believe it is about time that all members of this Parliament, in accepting and acknowledging the dedication of the thousands of young men who volunteer their time and efforts to help their fellow Australians enjoy themselves, were made to realise that, with the increasing requirement for more sophisticated equipment to save lives on the beaches, the movement is now supplying a service which can develop only into an even greater and more effective scheme. I trust that the Government will view the Surf Life Saving Association not merely as an activity for the welfare of its members but as a self-helping voluntary welfare organisation totally deserving of this Government's support. I could go on, but time does not permit a longer discussion. However, in passing, I would be remiss if I did not pay my personal tribute to the greatness of  Sir Adrian  Curlewis who this year retired after a remarkable 42 years as National  President  of our Surf Live Saving Association. 
I have already said it is not my intention to speak in this debate on economic matters. As Secretary of the Government Members Treasury Committee, it is my intention to involve myself with the economic debates that take place in this House and beyond. However, I would like to draw the attention of the House to the basic economic fact that within the next 10 years we will have to direct unprecedented proportions of our national and international resources towards capital formation rather than towards consumption expenditure and the public sector. This means that the Australian business community as well as members of this Government will have to publicise the need to counter anti-profit and anti-business attitudes and policies which have taken hold in surprising quarters in Australia. The problem of capital formation must be set forth in terms that can be understood by all. The solutions must be the constant care of this Government. We have a deep responsibility to see that business has not only the incentive but the means to meet capital requirements of the future. New areas of advanced technology with astronomically high costs, the requirement of preserving and improving the natural environment, the constant erosion of balance sheets by inflation are some of the causes which clearly reveal that the risks to private industry are growing even faster than the need for capital. So we find ourselves in the position in which the incentives and capabilities for investment are falling while the need for them is growing. 
It is obvious that government policy- some of it has already been announced- will try to ameliorate the situation, but I suspect that a great deal of research is required from non-government and non-academic sources to consider what tax policies, what foreign investment policies, what fiscal reforms generally are required to set the proper climate to permit the proper and desired expansion of the private sector. It is time we stopped listening to the allegation that profit is a dirty word. It is the most efficient way of capitalising a country's future. We must state this without embarrassment and without hesitation. There is a crying need for public debate on and a public acceptance of the critical role of private capital formation in the intelligent future development of Australia. 
Like my colleague the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean),  I did not come into this House to be a member of a Government without a social conscience. We were not elected to supervise the disintegration of the traditional Australian way of life or the concern of the average Australian citizen for his fellow man. We on this side of the House are concerned with the welfare of all Australians and I remind honourable members opposite that it was a LiberalCountry Party Government which instituted the Inquiry into Poverty. It has been LiberalCountry Party governments which have moved into all new areas of social welfare and concern and I am confident that in the years ahead it will still be the Liberal and National Country Parties, with their concern for the individual Australian and for his or her welfare, which will lead-and here is the great difference between our parties and the Opposition parties- in conjunction with community organisations to achieve the most effective welfare and advantage for' all Australians. 
I suppose the most crying need in my.electorate in social terms and in terms of public debate concerns the child welfare scheme, and I compliment some of the actions taken by the previous Labor Government in this regard. However, the people of Australia should be constantly reminded that even after 3 years of Labor Government and the criticisms we have heard about child welfare and its implementation, we are still operating under a Liberal Government's legislation. It would be an interesting exercise if honourable members went through all our social welfare programs to see to what extent we are operating under legislation instituted by the Liberal-Country Party Government parties. 
I would like to talk for a great length of time but before I sit down I take this opportunity to congratulate you,  Mr Speaker,  on your election to that position. As has been said, you are bringing great dignity to that office and I am certain that the welfare of Parliament itself will be enhanced by your occupation of that most important chair. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. I refer the right honourable gentleman to the target levels he set earlier this year with regard to the size of the Commonwealth Public Service. Is he in a position to inform the House of the progress which has been made towards achieving those targets? 
-I ask the Minister for Defence: Can he inform the House whether there has been any delay in settling the well publicised industrial disputes at the Garden Island Naval Dockyard in Sydney Harbour? Is there any reason for this House to believe that a series of industrial disputes at Garden Island has brought about the situation wherein the Royal Australian Navy is threatened with a virtual blockade in its own ports? 
-I rise, with very little notice I must confess, to speak briefly on this Bill. I am given great support from the realisation that the debate on the Audit Amendment Bill is a non-political activity of this House. The sad scene is that there are so few honourable members in the chamber. It is of interest to know that sitting in the House today during the debate on this BUI are 3 former chairmen of the Public Accounts Committee. I think that that is most significant. It is significant because the chairmen of the Committee who have dealt with the Audi: Act have seen the need for amendment. As the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  so rightly said, for those of us who have dealt with it it is a source of great pleasure that the Bill will be passed here today. 
As the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  said in his second reading speech, this is a technical Bill and the amendments are of a most technical nature. It is not my intention or my position to canvass those again for, without being unduly flattering to the Minister, I believe that he did the job most capably and well. The interesting thing is tha: the amendments have the total support of the Auditor-General himself. If I may digress for a moment, I believe that the status of the AuditorGeneral in the Public Service should be looked at. I believe that the Auditor-General should not have any person in the Public Service of Australia senior to him in status. I regret to say that there are still certain First Division officers of the Public Service who have a higher status than the Auditor-General. As the second reading speech indicated, the importance of auditing to the Australian public is reflected in the fact that the first Audit Act in 1901 was the fourth piece of legislation enacted by the Commonwealth Parliament. That information came as a surprise to me. I hope that if the members of the Remuneration Tribunal are listening somewhere or will read  Hansard  at some stage they will reconsider the status of the Auditor-General in the Public Service. As I say, no person should be senior to him. 
I was interested to see that the amendments to the Act do not suggest any change in the powers and responsibilities of the Auditor-General. In the spirit of the Opposition, and of the Government which has brought this legislation forward, I accept that but I suggest that we cannot rest here. The honourable member for Adelaide properly talked about the need for clarification of where efficiency audits should take place.. Obviously the present situation is not satisfactory. As I have said previously in the House, it is a sad commentary that so few members of this Parliament understand public accounting and public finance in any detail. I am pleased to see sitting opposite the former Treasurer, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  who himself has taken a role in the development of these changes to the Audit Act. I do not know that I agree with the previous  speaker  who said that it should be the role of the new Expenditure Committee to carry out efficiency audits, nor do I quite agree with the suggestion that we should move more towards the American system. I too have been fortunate to study the American government accounting office. I think that in this case we should look more to the House of Commons practice where- certainly in regard to the estimates but I am not sure about the expenditure the Auditor-General's staff services the parliamentary committees. In the United Kingdom there is a staff of something like 7 SO assisting parliamentary committees when matters arise relating to audit styles or to approaches to means of controlling or examining public finance in general terms. I suggest that we should be moving more along these lines. 
It would be improper for me to discuss what the present Public Accounts Committee is considering but I could not let this opportunity go without mentioning the need to examine the format of accounting in governmental institutions which are run on commercial lines. We members of the, Public Accounts Committee are presently looking into one of those institutions. I do not mention its name now for reasons of propriety. However, I do suggest it is a forward move. It is the next area at which we in the Parliament should look. We are talking of the Audit Act and the role of the Auditor-General and I think we should very closely consider the stage at which we should start applying commercial accounting examinations of these public accounts. 
As we have heard, this is a technical Bill and there is delight on the part of those of us who have been associated with it over the years that it now has come to pass. It comes as no surprise to many of us that there would be no opposition in the House to the technical matters described. I suggest, however, that in the not too distant future but rather immediately after this Bill is passed the Government listens to submissions as to the role of the Auditor-General, his status and the problems he has with his staffing situation. I commend to the Minister the sentiments he described in the last paragraph of his second reading speech wherein he said that he does not propose to change the powers and responsibilities of the Auditor-General. I suggest that this be the subject of a select committee investigation. I suggest with respect that this should be done by a parliamentary committee or, at the least, a joint Government and Opposition committee so that the decision to look into the new realms of auditing and accounting in public matters can in no way be regarded as having a political content but rather be regarded as a matter of concern for an effective and efficient approach to properly accounting and auditing the massive public accounts which obviously need constant review. I am delighted to support the Bill. 
I refer the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs to the statement made by him earlier this year when he so properly revoked the insidious system of the Whitlam Government requiring - 
I ask the Minister for Construction whether he has seen reports of recent statements that the construction industry is suffering its severest recession since World War II as a result of the recently announced economic measures by the Government. I further ask the Minister whether, in view of the very serious conditions existing in the building industry in New South Wales, he can inform the House whether the allegations of the severest recession throughout Australia are in fact true. 
I ask the Treasurer a question following his most admirable and excellent presentation of a very fine Budget last night and following the absence of questions from any of the 3 former Treasurers sitting opposite. Will he give details to the House of the Budget forecasts for economic growth this year? 
I direct a question to the Treasurer. I preface it by referring him to the final June quarterly statistics for the national accounts, which became available to members of this House today. I ask: Has the Treasurer had time to study the latest statistics? If so, do the movements in the company profit levels and the savings ratio indicate whether those elements mean that the economy is beginning to move in the right direction after 3 years of disastrous economic policy? 
-It is not my intention to follow the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass),  and discuss Medibank, but he used the word 'balderdash* in relation to costs of health schemes increasing. I would refer him to articles, particularly in today's Press, about what is happening to the French scheme. Without the proper costs and proper controls which have been introduced by this Government I put it to the House that we might well have been in the same position as the French. At this stage of the Budget debate- and we are debating the Budget- most of the issues have been raised and presented by members who sit on the Government benches. The experience, the talent, the compassion and the concern of my Party collegues have been illustrated for all to see. It would be fair and objective to say that no Parliament in Australia's history has been able to boast such a great collective talent as that which normally sits on the Government side during debates. As most Australians realise- this was said in a famous stage musicalthe country is in the very best of hands. 
But what of the contributions to this most important of economic debates by members of the socialist Party who occupy the Opposition benches? What can be said about them and their contributions? Most of the socialists in this House have demonstrated clearly that they just do not understand how to run a country. They have shown by their continuing attitudes that they have learned absolutely nothing from their past mistakes. They continue to promote the theme of class consciousness. They hide their ignorance of economics by sliding into personal abuse. They refuse to accept that it is as a result of their utter disregard for responsible government, as opposed to popular government for sectional interests, that Australia has been forced into its parlous economic position. In one speech after another in this debate there has been an almost unbelievably stubborn refusal by members of the Labor Party to accept that their socialist theories were impractical, that their socialist doctrines were self-centred and, for Australia, almost self-destroying. Not one member opposite has seen the error of his ways. Not one member opposite has revealed the slightest concern for the plight into which Labor plunged Australia. 
The small business operator was a particular target for Labor, and no wonder. It is the classical socialist program to destroy small business, remove the spirit of individual enterprise and then, when it is good and ready, to nationalise and socialise the major industries one by one. Centralise, nationalise and socialise the lot- that was Labor's battle cry. Let us not be fooled into forgetting, nor letting the Australian public forget, that Labor had no other ambition during its 3 years of government. The sense of hopelessness which it brought to young Australians, the lack of opportunities for satisfying their desired careers, its almost manic concern for changing the very structure of the Australian economy, and its disregard for established social patterns- all these ambitions, all these sinister nearachievements were the background against which an almost total economic collapse would have occurred had there not been a change of government at the end of 1975; and the Australian public knew that too. 
It is the background against which the Australian electorate voted in the Fraser Government in what was the greatest political victory ever known in Australia. It is the background against which the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has had to make serious economic decisions, as the facts 'of the previous Whitlam Government's mismanagement of the country regularly reveal themselves. Not for 40 years has an incoming Treasurer had to grapple with so much confusion inherited from a previous government. It is against that background that this Budget must be assessed and critically examined. It is against the Fraser Government's ambition to restore real values to the Australian way of life that Australians should regard the Budget. 
How have they regarded it? First of all, let me say that I believe that this Budget has been accepted by the man in the street. After all the drama we have experienced with the Whitlam reign of mismanagement, the average Australian is very relieved to know that despite the need for redirection in money matters the Fraser Government has not raised any major tax. Contrary to the prognostications of the ladies and gentlemen in the Canberra Press Gallery, the price of beer did not increase, petrol did not become more expensive, and cigarettes were not increased in price. Popular though those concessions were with so many people in the community, the really important acceptance of this Lynch Budget related to the tax indexation of personal incomes, together with the decision to increase social welfare in real terms, to accept a greater financial responsibility in the field of education, again in real terms, and to bring back some realism in the field of defence spending. 
What happened on 17 August 1976 showed that the Fraser Administration was determined not to follow the lead of the Whitlamites of robbing the working man of his financial independence and his hopes. It showed that this Administration, the Fraser Administration, was fair dinkum in its plan to show a special concern for the underprivileged in the Australian community. It showed that the Fraser Administration was game enough to come out and make responsible decisions to put the whole economy back on the right road. 
Now that we have the Budget before us, we know that the family allowance scheme was not a flash in the pan. This Government is compassionately concerned with raising the disadvantaged beyond and out of their disadvantage. After years of discussion by all parties in this House, pensions have been taken out of a wretched political arena. Although the Government must continue to proceed again next year with the policy plan of removing the means test, the formal attachment of the pension rate to the consumer price index is a grand move forward. It is a humane and dignified decision which all sections of this House must support, for all sections of this House have, in one way and another, worked towards it. It is not a decision that should be viewed with party political pride. It should be seen as a culmination of much effort that has been put into the welfare of the aged by members who sit in this House today representing such electorates as Mackellar, Sturt and Oxley. The family allowance is so fundamental a decision that one wonders why on earth none of us had not thought of it before. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  will be remembered long and affectionately for that significant policy decision. 
The increase in payments to handicapped children from $10 to $ 1 5 is also most welcome, but I am sure that the Treasurer is aware of the great needs which still remain for educating the handicapped child into the tertiary area of education. Of course much has been done and there are countless stories of young people who have overcome not only their own disability but often the education systems themselves to achieve success. My own memory in this regard goes back to when I was being tutored by a totally blind graduate in Queensland when I was preparing for matriculation. That person, Miss Mercy Griffin, was one of the great people that Australia has produced.  Her  achievements were the result of her own great efforts. It remains very much within the motivation of many significantly deaf and blind young folk themselves to achieve higher educational awards. I hope that next year's Budget will see the extension of appropriate educational allowances and the extension of invalid pensions to disabled children over the age of 16 years who remain full-time students. It is an area that seems to have been cruelly overlooked, and perhaps that may be due to the fact that the numbers involved are not great. However, it is my intention to speak on this subject more fully in debates other than the one presently before the House. 
I support the economic thrust of the Lynch Budget. I believe it has made a very honest attempt to restore confidence and to provide stimuli in needy quarters. We all accept the need for promoting private entrepreneurial skills, and it is fascinating to read that in my own State we now have a socialist Premier who is making noises in support of private industry in a way which would have him driven out of the Federal section of this Party. In vain have I waited for just one honourable member opposite to mention the need for reviewing that section of the economy which provides three-quarters of the job opportunities in Australia. It is gratifying to note that the Australian Chamber of Commerce, for example, has found that its State chambers are unanimously agreed that the Budget represents a responsible and courageous approach to Australias present economic problems. The Chambers of Commerce said that they are confident that the incentives provided in the Budget will encourage business enterprises and consumers to enter new spending commitments and thus help lift the level of activity in the economy. The  President  of the Australian Chamber of Commerce said: 
Responsible economic management has to be accompanied by resposible community attitudes and realistic expectations. 
I am certain that industry, commerce and the community are awaiting strong leads and are most anxious to promote what is becoming a consumer based recovery. There can be no doubt that one of the great hurdles we have to overcome is the high level of interest rates. We are all aware of it. Quite obviously there is no easy or quick solution to that problem. I believe, however, that we have room for certain negotiations and initiatives. I would like to put forward one thought: Recent comments by the Australian money market dealers suggest that they are no longer confident in the prospect of an early or sharp drop in interest rates. I share that concern, yet I realise that there is no easy government action which can be taken. I know that the level of interest rates does have the Treasurer's keen attention and that he is concerned. I would not wish to deny the extraordinary complexities which surround the establishment of interest rates by those whose duties are involved with money management. 
However, I want to draw the attention of the House to one aspect of interest rates. I refer to the interest rate that is paid by the Reserve Bank of Australia for statutory reserve deposits. As honourable members are no doubt aware, the rate of 0.75 per cent has been paid, apart from a short break in 1956, since 1941. That rate was originally established to secure that the trading profits of the trading banks did not exceed the average of their annual trading profit for the 3 years ended 31 August 1939. That interest rate has been enshrined in official thinking ever since. While the rate was designed as a form of profit control, h was also related to a discount on the Treasury bill rate. Despite what could be referred to as radical changes in the rates of interest in the markets for money in Australia, the rate paid for statutory reserve deposits remains at 0.75 per cent. It is no longer possible to say with any sanity or responsibility that the rate bears any direct relationship to any other interest rate in the market, with the exception perhaps of the non-market and archaic Treasury bill rate. Histories of statutory reserve deposits and their interest rates are really quite crazy. I put it to honourable members that they have the same anachronism that the payroll tax had when it was introduced to pay child endowment. I believe we have reached this stage where statutory reserve deposits should attract an interest rate commercially viable and which would allow the trading banks the chance for greater downward mobility in the rates of interest it charges for its lending to its customers. I do hope that the Treasurer, as a matter of some urgency, will enter into serious discussions not only with the Reserve Bank, but also with the trading banks involved, to see what would be achieved if statutory reserve deposits were taken on a commercial interest rate. I believe personally that such a move would allow a reduction in bank rates on overdrafts to commence. 
To illustrate the problem of interest rates, I refer to a table in the March 1976 issue of  Reserve Bank Statistics  which shows that in December 1972 when the Liberal Party last governed the country 90 per cent of total advances outstanding were being charged less than 8 per cent. After 3 years of Labor Government, that is in December 1975, 90 per cent of total advances outstanding were being charged less than 13 per cent. In other words, the level being charged as a result of the unknowing, uninformed economic policies of the people opposite when in government, is some 5 per cent more. It is a serious burden on all borrowers, especially the individual customer and especially too for the home borrower who is badly affected by the level of interest rates over a very long period. 
The position of interest rates must be improved, and respectfully I put forward the thought that a thorough investigation of the position of interest paid by the Reserve Bank on statutory reserve deposits could be the starting point we are looking for. I believe that this rate can be changed by the Reserve Bank with the approval of the Treasurer from time to time and it does not require parliamentary legislation. The interest rate on the statutory reserve deposits, as I have said, is archaic. It must be seen as no longer serving its original purpose of profit control of the trading banks of Australia, but rather I believe it must be seen in its true light of having a deleterious and distorting effect on the various money markets in Australia. 
As an aside, I would like to comment a little on the revaluation of the Australian dollar, about which much has been said in recent days. During my recent trip overseas I spoke to many people interested in investing in Australia. My professional associations with them showed that they all clearly indicated that although there is some international uncertainty regarding the continuing value placed on the Australian dollar, the real barriers which are causing some reluctance for investment in Australia are related to confusion as to the application of our overseas investment guidelines. But even more important than that is the ever present threat of industrial turmoil and the fear of another socialist government coming to power with its attitude towards killing profits as a matter of political dogma. The latter day Fabians, who sit opposite still  (Quorum formed) 
I support the Budget. It is responsible and it is considerate. It is a vehicle upon which Australia's economic recovery will be based. I commend the Treasurer on his first of many Budgets. 
It has been most interesting to hear the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  talking on inflation, unemployment, the role of the Treasury and the incapacity to determine what is 'saving' and what is not. I am reminded- I hope I have the wording right- of a statement by the honourable member some years ago in which he said that an increase in one man's wage was costing another man his job. I think if we care to look at that a little further we would be looking perhaps at what inflation and unemployment are all about and how they are connected. But I do agree with the honourable member very strongly that much more time should be given to an analysis of the unemployment figures. I think for years now we have had to look at the unemployment figures completely in the blind. We do not know really who is unemployed. I am sure we all have studied our local figures and the national figures, but it is very hard to determine what the situation is. The only hope I have is that I am pleased to be able to say that in my own area of Sydney the unemployment figure has dropped drastically since we came into office last December. 
My friend interjects and says that it is a credit to me. I wish that were the case. There are problems. The whole point of the amendment which has been brought in today by the Opposition is a total and complete farce. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  wants to reduce the proposed expenditure for the Treasury by $10. What does he want to reduce? Does he want the $8,265,300 reimbursement to Government departments and payments to agents for statistical services reduced by $10? Obviously not, because he now wants the Australian Bureau of Statistics to have more money. Does he want the proposed appropriation for Treasury salaries reduced by $10? Does he want overtime reduced? Does he want the proposed appropriation for computer services reduced? No, he does not. He does not say why he wants the proposed appropriation reduced. He wants it reduced yet he goes on to talk about increasing the amount of money the Commonwealth should be appropriating under every other item relating to the Commonwealth Statistician. 
Let me deal with what has really happened with the Bureau of Statistics. In respect of the appropriation for postages, telegram and telephone services, although no increase in the rates were announced in the Budget- not one increase- the proposed estimate for the Bureau of Statistics for these items has been increased by 14.8 per cent or something like $300,000. The proposed appropriation for computer services within the Bureau of Statistics has increased by something like $900,000. There is a 42 per cent increase in this year's Budget for the Australian Bureau of Statistics. Yet the shadow Treasurer has moved this amendment. I am sure that the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  who is sitting at the table, would not agree with what the honourable member for Adelaide is saying because he has too great a knowledge of statistics. But imagine saying that the appropriation for the Australian Bureau of Statistics  is  inadequate. There is a 42 per cent increase in the appropriation for services. There is a 15 per cent increase in the appropriation for other services including the collection of data. Also, there are the other ordinary increases in allocations. I think that the whole thrust of this amendment is total and complete stupidity. It is nonsense and represents an insult to this House. 
However, there are areas in which the Statistician should be improving his position. Although I would not go quite so far as my friend and colleague, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  went in his statement on the Budget the other day, I believe that all governments suffer through a lack of current statistics from the Bureau. I hope that the new Statistician,  Mr Cole,  will be spending some of this large increase in funds in assessing new ways of collecting data. I believe that one of the areas to which the staff of the Bureau could very usefully direct their minds and efforts would be to the use of sampling techniques in the collection of current economic data. Surely, there is no other area in which staleness is so expensive than in the collection of economic data to study the current trends and to make forecasts for economic policy. My remarks in this respect apply to both sides of the chamber. I hope that we will see a movement in the office of the Australian Bureau of Statistics towards the greater use of computers. As I have said, with a 42 per cent increase in the appropriation for computer services, I hope that we will see a greater use of the sampling techniques. 
I would mention to the Committee by way of aside that I was involved in the creation of the Bank of New South Wales and Associated 
Chamber of Manufactures business survey some ten or fifteen years ago. This proved to be a most useful tool for all assessors of economic affairs. I hope that the Australian Government Statistician will start moving more into this area of activity instead of just the mere collection of data. Anyone connected with the collection of data realises that it is not the statistician who is at fault; it is the people who supply the information. The time involved in collecting data is of necessity time consuming. When that data has to be collected from throughout Australia, difficulties arise. My hope is that the increase of 14.8 per cent in the item for postage, telegrams and telephone services will be directed towards achieving greater speed in the collection of data and, as I have said, moving into new areas of activity. 
I think it is interesting to note also that in the appropriation for the Department of the Treasury which involves an increased appropriation of some $48m over last year, some $22m of that amount relates to increases in salaries and allowances. Thus, I have difficulty in accepting the comments of the previous speaker that inflation is not affecting employment. Although there has been no increase in staff for this Department, we have a $22m increase in the item for salaries and allowances. Surely some sanity has to be brought into the whole field of wages, salaries and allowances. 
I would like to use the last few moments of this short speech to reiterate what I said in my Budget speech. I ask the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  to consider strongly changing the interest rate imposed on the statutory reserve deposits held on behalf of the trading banks. I mentioned it then and I mention it again briefly today. The interest rate has been .75 per cent since 1941. It was related then to the level of the Treasury bill rate and  to  the controlling of profits by the trading banks in Australia. I believe that that interest rate is now enshrined in some archaic attitude held by the Reserve Bank of Australia as something that cannot be changed. I think that we have had enough of this traditional nonmovement of enshrined ideas. I am pleased to see that I am entertaining the honourable member for Mackellar. 
It is a very honest tribute. However, I hope that the Treasurer will confer not only with the Reserve Bank but also that he will take the trouble to talk with the trading banks as well to see what effect action in this area will have on all interest rates. It may be decided that a more viable interest rate could be paid on funds held on statutory reserve deposit. I believe that if this were done, it could provide the start that the Government is seeking in respect of a downward movement of interest rates. There can be no doubting that if changes were made in this interest rate we could see a greater downward mobility by the trading banks m all their lending rates to the community. I commend to the Treasurer that he takes urgent action on this matter because it is important. It would provide the opportunity to start reducing interest rates all round. In conclusion, I say that I reject completely the amendment put forward by the honourable member for Adelaide. It is a total exercise in farce and futility. 
Has the Minister for Transport noticed a report that the New South Wales Minister for Transport wishes to electrify the southern railway line to Wollongong, provided the Federal Government supplies the necessary funds? Did the Minister in fact offer to provide two-thirds of the cost of the electrification of the line to Waterfall and did the New South Wales Labor Minister for Transport reject that offer some months ago? Will the Minister advise the House of the present situation regarding this matter? 
-I refer the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs to widespread Press reports that the Government has decided to review tariff levels consequent upon the devaluation. I ask the Minister whether these reports are correct. 
-I refer the Minister for Health to reports that at least 30 people were admitted to a major hospital in Sydney over the weekend suffering from severe gastro-enteritis after travelling on British Airways Flight BA888 from Hong Kong. As this follows the outbreak of typhoid fever among travellers on another flight by this airline into Australia earner in the same week, I ask the Minister whether he listened to the radio program  AM  this morning when a spokesman for that airline denied responsibility for this serious breakdown in health surveillance and control? In view of the many thousands of Australians about to proceed on their annual holidays with international airlines, will the Minister advise the House where responsibility for such breakdowns in health and quarantine controls rests? I further ask the Minister whether he will arrange for a stricter application of health measures on all nights entering Australia. 
Is the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware that proprietors of fish and chip shops, among others, are having great difficulty in obtaining unskilled workers and that these proprietors are being disadvantaged by the present immigration policy of excluding such likely workers coming from overseas on the grounds that such workers are still available in Australia? Will the Minister consider instituting a more sophisticated yet practical classification system within his Department which will relate with greater accuracy and realism all those activities in Australia which continue to experience great difficulties in filling job vacancies including, of course, fish and chip shops? 
-I listened with great interest to the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  I must confess that I had difficulty following his comments upon the Asian Development Bank.  His  remarks on the common fund meeting which is about to take place in Africa, which occupied most of his speech, were interesting. I suppose it would be fair to say that there would be few people in this House who would not approve of the common fund in general principle. But governments cannot live on those sorts of aspects to international affairs. I point out to the previous  speaker  that when we talk of the common fund we cannot ignore existing international arrangements in all commodities and particularly commodities about which the common fund people are presently talking. I was pleased to hear that the Opposition supports this Bill. It is not my intention to repeat the second reading speech of the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Viner). 
In view of my professional experiences with the Asian Development Bank during the 3 years when I was not representing the electorate of Cook in this Parliament, I shall make a few points in this debate. Firstly, I believe that it should be clearly emphasised, despite what the Opposition has said, that Australia's heavy involvement in the Asian Development Bankonly Japan, United States of America and India exceed our subscriptions to it- reflects the very strong view of this Liberal Government and particularly preceding Liberal governments that our contributions should pave the way for large scale development projects in the Asian and Pacific region. They have done this. As a result of its successful operation this Bank has emerged as a major force for development in the work of the Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East. As the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs who is at the table has said, the Bank should be regarded as an effective and efficient vehicle for regional co-operation and development in our pan of the world. 
It is worth recalling that the basic role of international development banks- I point this out to the previous  speaker-  which have available to them large amounts of capital from donor governments, is to supplement and to add to the flow of aid going to developing countries from government sources. Developing countries themselves either do not have access to these markets or else would be required to borrow at very much higher rates of interest. I believe that the Asian Development Bank was established to add substantially to the amount of capital available for development purposes to the poorer countries of Asia. I think it is worth pointing out to this not exactly full House that something like 62.5 per cent of the subscriptions are held by regional members and that only 37.5 per cent is available for such non-regional members as the United States, Canada, the Federal Republic of Germany and the United Kingdom. So the Bank will be seen to be a good example of Asian regional countries looking towards caring for their own less affluent areas. 
There is no question- I repeat that- there is no question on this side of the House that we should not accept this added involvement in a venture which must be regarded as a vital part of Australia's total overseas aid. It reflects this Liberal Government's sincere wish to assume all its responsibilities in the South East Asian area. It is worth pointing out to members that although this Bill seems to be concerned only with international finance and capital markets, it will facilitate in real and practical terms loans to personal and small scale enterprises throughout Asia and the South Pacific region. I believe that our contribution to this Bank cannot be viewed in isolation from our general foreign aid program, nor in isolation from our involvement in other international agencies, which, with their ability to draw on the resources of many donor countries, have the capability of determining by expert long-term analysis and experience the needs of developing countries in our region. In fact, I believe that our involvement in the Asian Development Bank and other similar international agencies has allowed Australian governments on both sides of the political spectrum to plan more effectively aid programs to neighbouring countries. 
A little earlier, I mentioned the 'Asianness' of the Asian Development Bank. I believe honourable members would be interested to know that nearly all the Bank's technical officers and senior staff are from regional member countries. These officers are superbly professional and able and we should be grateful that people of their character and capabilities are drawn to the ADB as a career. I would be failing in my duty if I did not pay tribute to the great contribution made by Australians at the Manila headquarters over the years. In particular I pay tribute to the present Director of Operations,  Dr David  Fisher, an outstanding public servant, who has made a most significant contribution in this sensitive and responsible senior position for some years now. It is to be hoped that when  Dr Fisher's  term of office ends, Australia will make full and appropriate use of his remarkable experience with the ADB. However, there are a large number of Australians on the staff there and I pay tribute to each of them as well. Here in Canberra there is a fine group of public servants who give advice to Australian professional consultants wishing to tender for many of the ADB's projects. Much of the success of Australian firms which have won tenders has been as a direct result of the objective, professional advice given by these Canberra-based people. 
Nevertheless, I believe that this is an area where much yet remains to be achieved. Goodness knows, our engineering, architectural and management skills- and they rank among the world 's best- are being under-utilised at the moment. I believe that we could use some of the Japanese techniques in having our experts employed more than is the case at present in these major Asian developmental projects. I seek a fairer go for Australian professionals in this aspect of the Asian Development Bank which is to provide technical assistance to developing member countries. The fault does not lie entirely with the ADB, for many Australian firms have not geared themselves to providing the service specifically required. Our Government would do well to devote more effort into informing and coaching, if not training, likely Australian firms for this most important aspect of the ADB's operations. Admittedly it can be very confusing for Australian consulting firms to work out the appropriate method of registering with the various international organisations and without local lobbyists in Manila to assist, registration for the various tendering documents that come forward from time to time is too often delayed for Australian organisations. As I have suggested previously, perhaps consideration could be given by the Government to a better method of disseminating information by using more effectively our trade commissioner facilities in Manila as well as developing further the facilities in the Department of Overseas Trade in Canberra. 
I do not wish to take up much of the time of the House on this aspect, but I should like to quote from one of the Asian Development Bank's documents as to why technical assistance is such an important element of the Bank's developmental role and why I am most anxious for Australian consulting firms to play a much more important part. The Bank says: 
Such assistance is particularly needed by the Bank's smaller and less developed countries where there are generally substantial gaps in technical know-how and expertise. 
The Bank, therefore, attaches considerable importance to this branch of activity, which covers assistance in project preparation and implementation, sectoral studies, policy formulation, development planning, institution building and any other economic problem of national or regional concern. As in the case of lending activities, the Bank has also given specific attention in its technical assistance projects to the training of local personnel. 
The Bank's technical assistance operations have been widely appreciated because of their beneficial impact on the capacity of developing member countries, especially the smaller or less developed countries, to utilize external financing. No less important, such assistance also helps to replenish the pipeline of loan applications to the Bank. 
The use of the technical assistance aspect of this organisation is vital and it is one in which we can play a pan. My colleague, the honourable member for Eden Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  who will follow me as the next  speaker  from this side of the House, will no doubt talk about the number of Australian organisations which have been used. I include in that list the Snowy Mountains Authority, or rather, its successor. But as the Asian Development Bank has declared that 44 per cent of the total amount of technical assistance has been given in the agricultural and agroindustry sector, it becomes obvious that we have a great deal to offer in the way of consultative expertise. You,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  are very involved in that activity in Australia and would be very well aware of it. I know that the senior officers of the Asian Development Bank would gladly use more Australian technical consultants either as individuals or as organisations. It behoves us as a Government to do all we can to prepare Australians for this task. 
If this were a debate on our aid program, I would take the trouble to answer all the questions raised by the previous speaker; but the debate is limited to the Asian Development Bank, our involvement and its role. I think one of the interesting aspects is that since the Bank's establishment back in 1966 it has received bipartisan support in this Parliament. I think it is fair to comment that all countries in the region are pleased, if not always completely satisfied, with the general thrust of the Bank's policies. I believe it must continue to function in its strictly nonpolitical way as indeed do all the international banks. I believe that the future of the Bank must always remain an integral part of our aid policy. 
At this stage I feel inclined to answer one criticism. For the past 2 decades Australia has been renowned amongst recipient countries as being one of the few countries that have not tied their aid to their own advantage. I think it is totally distressing that a man who now has the responsibility of such matters for the Opposition- the shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Adelaide- should believe that our aid program is tied, as perhaps may be alleged with regard to one or two European countries, to the donor country's advantage. If there is one thing in our aid program on which we can hold our heads very high it is that we have maintained a policy of not tying our aid to our own advantage. I strongly support this move by the Government and I am delighted to see that on the list of speakers there is a large number of people on this side of the House wishing to speak and to show their great interest in what I think is a most significant part of this Government's aid program. 
-One rises tonight to speak in this debate in a sort of agonised fashion because here we are dealing first of all with an emotional, political subject. We are dealing with the reputation of one of our most respected members in this House. We are talking on a subject for which a small number of speakers is listed. But I think it would be fair to say that amongst the speakers listed, in the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  and the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  we have three of the people who, by their actions and experiences in the past 2 decades, have shown a real and deep concern for the subject matter under dispute. 
However, I believe that this is not the occasion on which to speak about the rights and wrongs or the details of the report. What we have before us tonight is a problem which faces all parliamentary committees. I have spoken in this House for some years on the desirability of Joint Committee of Public Accounts reports being the subject of earnest and serious debate in this place. I am saddened to think that we have had to wait for a challenge between a former Minister of the Crown and a departmental head, first of all to be given the time to debate such a report and, secondly, to have needed this situation to have developed the interest. 
Now we come into philosophical problems. I do not wish to bore the House or anyone here on that part of the matter, but it should be mentioned because the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  if I read him rightly, impugned certain sincerities of the Auditor-General. 
Well, if the honourable member did not do so, then I apologise. I withdraw the comment. But this is one of the constant problems we face. We, as members of this House, have the right to discuss and talk on any matter political in this place. Public servants who appear before parliamentary committees are sworn witnesses and they, within their own conscience, have the problem of speaking in truth at all times to all questions. Knowing both the then Minister, the honourable member for Wills and the then Permanent Head of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, I stand here in complete personal anguish because I know each to be a man of great sincerity. Though I was not here at the time- it was during one of the aberrations of the Australian electorate- as of course the honourable member for Hughes went through an aberrated period of the electorate not understanding him either - 
Like Brylcreem, I came back. 
I strongly support the Bill before the House, namely, the Australian 
Development Assistance Agency (Repeal) Bill 1977. When the Bill establishing the agency was introduced into the House back in 1974 1 was not a member of this Parliament. However, I did not then approve of the creation of the Agency for practical reasons. I am happy that the Fraser Government is now taking this action to repeal the Bill and to transfer the functions of the Agency to a bureau within the Department of Foreign Affairs. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  has carefully spelt out in his second reading speech that with the creation of the new Australian Development Assistance Bureau within the Department of Foreign Affairs there has already been a closer relationship between the staff of the whole Department and the staff of the Bureau. In time this will bring a broader outlook towards aid within our foreign policies generally. 
I note that staff of the new Bureau will act with certain autonomy. My original objection to the creation of the Agency in 1974 was that it isolated all staff concerned with aid programs away from the main flow of governmentcumdepartmental policy making decisions with foreign countries. I therefore welcome the decision to integrate not only here at the home base in Canberra but very much more importantly also at all of our posts overseas. I believe it was at all of our overseas posts that the Agency just did not work in bringing back information as to what our aid programs should be all about. However I believe it would be appropriate to pay tribute to such men as Max Loveday who performed excel.lently to get the old Agency under way. I am sure all members of the House, irrespective of their views on this legislation, have no doubt that there will be equal dedication and application by those who are now charged with the responsibility of integrating our aid program with our general foreign policy making processes. 
I was pleased to note that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has advised that arrangements are currently being made with the Public Service Board so that experts can continue to be engaged to work on special projects. However, I should like some further assurance from the Minister that discussions between his officers and those of the Board are not revealing any serious impediment to a solution of this technical staffing situation. Obviously we must employ as far as practicable such research experts under the Public Service Act. This is Government policy and I support it. But I am alarmed that we may face some impediment from the Public Service Board when we come to employ, on a short term basis, specific skills and expertise. I hope we do not face a future of compromise in this regard. I take some reassurance from the Minister's second reading speech when he expressed his confidence that the new arrangement will allow the new Bureau to place experts overseas quickly and effectively. However I remain concerned that as of today we still do not have final arrangements between the Department of Foreign Affairs and the Public Service Board as to what conditions shall apply to employment of such experts and researchers whose skills are necessarily required on a short term basis only. I am certain that the Minister is determined in this matter and I look forward to his advice revealing success in negotiations with the Public Service Board. 
As with the excellent speech that has just been given by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  this Bill also shows the gaps that exist between this side of the House and the Labor Opposition. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  had the temerity to say that times are changing or times have changed. I shall resist the temptation to list the way things have changed for that honourable gentleman from Werriwa at present both in foreign and domestic affairs. I notice that the honourable gentleman from the Opposition sitting at the table is expressionless in this situation. What the Leader of the Opposition managed to show was that economies of administration still have no recognition in his mental processes or his political assessments. I should like at a later stage of my speech to correct a total misstatement of facts as he put them forward with regard to aid to the South Pacific countries. 
As we all know, aid must not become a form of outside economic control of developing countries. There are some sorry examples of large countries trying to dominate the countries to which they are offering and giving aid. It is certain that Australian aid has not moved in this direction- certainly not under Liberal-National Country Party governments. I said in a recent debate on the Asian Development Bank that no criticism can be made of the form of foreign aid, or its intention. The level of our aid program is often under fire, perhaps with occasional justification. I have no doubt that from the long list of Opposition speakers to be heard in this debate we will hear further criticisms in this regard. But the straightforward facts are that in comparison with other Western donors the proportion of our research allocated to foreign aid remains high. We have been consistently among the top four or five major aid donors. 
The Minister has confirmed in unequivocal terms that the Fraser Government remains firmly committed to achievement of the internationally accepted target of 0.7 per cent of gross national product being provided in aid. If one cared to measure our aid program as certain other overseas donor countries sometimes do and included voluntary contributions as well as private investment, export credits and other financial transfers, we could show a figure far in excess of the target. But I believe this method of assessment is not an honest measurement and we must accept the fact that 0.7 per cent remains and ambition which as an ardent foreign aid supporter I hope will not be too long in being realised. 
I turn to our aid program as it relates to regional co-operation. I was glad when the Foreign Minister announced last October that it had been decided to increase our aid to the island nations of the Pacific region fourfold. As the Minister knows, that area has been of great interest to me both while a member of Parliament and while not a member of Parliament. The announcement by the Minister last October was a highlight in what really has been an otherwise less than exciting improvement in our aid program. The significance of this increase in our aid to the Pacific region has been its innovative nature. I should like to quote from the Minister's speech last October. He said: 
Another innovation in our aid program will be our willingness to provide grants to Pacific island governments to strengthen development banks and related financial institutions. 
This is a most forward thinking move and follows closely the work and the decision by the Asian Development Bank to finance the operation of the development bank in Tonga. I hope that the Government continues to press for support of development banks throughout this area. One has started in Fiji and is doing very well. I shall now spend a few minutes regarding Australia's involvement in the Pacific region and spend a moment or two completely denying the allegations made by the Leader of the Opposition. Earlier in this debate he had taken the present Minister for Foreign Affairs to task for saying that we had increased the aid to the Pacific area fourfold. He claimed that in point of fact when he was the Prime Minister, and presumably when he was the Foreign Minister, aid was increased fourfold during the Labor Government's term of office. Nothing could be further from the truth. Let me state quite categorically that it was the McMahon Government which in May 1972 declared a $15m grant program lasting till the end of 1975. This was the figure about which the Leader of the Opposition made such emphatic statements. He mentioned that we had given only $1.5m in aid in our last year of government. The cold hard fact remains -and every nation in the South Pacific area knows it, remembers it and is aware of it- that the Labor Government, while it was in power, did not increase its aid to the Pacific region by a solitary cent. It lived on and stayed with the policy brought down by the then Liberal Government in 1972. 
Today we have the Minister for Foreign Affairs going on to state quite properly that one of the things of which this Government should be very proud is the fact that we have again increased fourfold the aid program to the South Pacific countries. It is complete balderdash for the Leader of the Opposition to make statements such as he made today. If he likes to hold on to the incredible statement that he was one of our greatest Foreign Ministers ever, perhaps he would do well to go back and check occasionally some of the figures he uses in debates in this House. 
I believe it is understood that this Government does seek to work closely with out neighbours in the Pacific region and to meet and overcome the many problems which face the region. We seek to share what skills and experience we possess. Above all, we must seek a true and full partnership on a firm basis of friendship, understanding, equality and trust. Have we gone close to meeting these criteria? I believe we have. It is a sobering thought to realise that only 200 years ago there was little or no contact between people in our part of the world. It is difficult to conceive the extent of this isolation in the past when it is realised that I can fly from Sydney to Nadi in roughly the same time as it takes me to drive the 190 miles from my electorate to Canberra, lt is also worth remembering that at the close of the 19th century, only 80 years ago, 6 metropolitan governments from the northern hemisphere were separately administering 19 territories in the region. The past 30 years have been incredible in the emergence of so many independent sovereign nations in this Pacific region. It is obvious that Australia has wanted to become involved in this area and its changing status. 
One criterion by which Australia's interest in the region can be gauged is the extent of our official representation in the area. We have had a High Commissioner in Wellington since 1943; a Consul in Noumea since 1940; a Commissioner in Fiji since 1964, becoming a High Commissioner in 1970 and accredited to Western Samoa and Tonga, and an official representative in Nauru since 1968. These representatives regularly visit the other territories in the region where as yet Australia is not formally represented. Through them the Australian Government is provided with a regular flow of first hand reports on development throughout the region. But just as important, these official representatives are able to keep the governments of the region in close touch with Australian thinking and attitudes on matters of common concern. I believe that the creation of this new bureau within the Department and the Bill which is repealing the Agency will help our representatives in this area to report back much more effectively to the Government the aid needs of these many emerging and existing island nations of the Pacific. 
I think it would be rude not to talk on the trade problems of this area. Trade relations are always a complex matter, particularly in the Pacific area when a country such as Australia produces many goods in demand in other parts of the region while other countries of the region generally do not produce the equivalent quantities of goods which are in demand in Australia. It becomes even more complex when one of Australia's most important trading customers is the Pacific area. As a major producer we have become an important supplier of a wide range of products to our neighbours. The significance of the area becomes clear when it is realised that New Zealand is our fourth largest market, Papua New Guinea our fifth largest market and the Pacific Islands the twelfth largest market for Australian exports. Australia must remain conscious- I am confident the Fraser Government will be keeping to this policy- of the difficulties some of the island countries are facing in trade matters. We have always made known our desire to assist where possible in the development of import substitute industries. I am most hopeful that the South Pacific Bureau for Economic Co-operation will continue to play an important role in rationalising the long established trade patterns of the region and in stepping up the flow of trade within the region and between it and the rest of the world. 
We count ourselves fortunate to live in an area which retains as much of the value as well as the romantic aura of its traditions and customs. But tourism can destroy valuable aspects of the past. Controlled, as it has been in these parts so far, it can make a great contribution to a growing sense of identity amongst the people of the region as well as bringing a knowledge of our region to those outside it. Tourism is an area which calls for the closest possible regional co-operation so that all may benefit and so that adequate steps may be taken to ensure that what we value in our cultures is properly protected. The economic and financial rewards of tourism can be immense. Our duty as Australians is to gain the maximum benefit without permitting any undermining of these values which all of us regard as important. 
What then of our aid? An important element, in fact a vital element, in regional co-operation at present and always is economic an technical assistance from more developed members of the region to those who are seeking to provide for the rapid economic and social advance of their peoples. We in Australia have long recognised this and the relative advantage which we have in terms of economic development. I should like to remind the House of what Prime Minister McMahon said some years ago. He said: 
The main purpose of Australia's aid program is to assist with the economic development of other countries. We do not want recipients to tell us of their ever-lasting gratitude and friendship for Australia. We do not use it as a substitute for trade promotion. Our aid should always maintain the primary characteristic of being humanitarian and moral. 
He went on to say: 
The 1970s, designated as the Second Development Decade, provide the opportunity for the rich countries collectively to do more and to provide the imagination on which our future patterns of development and progress can be based. Australia will not stand back from this challenge. 
It would be my pleasure to read the history and the details of our aid to the Pacific area. Strangely, time does not permit. But as far as the South Pacific area is concerned Australia has met the standards that were set by our Prime Minister back in 1972. I believe that we can hold our heads high. I believe that the Bill before the House is another example of a practical application, of a practical regard for what is right and what should be appropriate when thinking of any aid program. I hope that in the remaining speeches in the debate we do not hear unbecoming, cynical remarks from any members of this House on what is really an issue that should go beyond party politics and personal feelings. 
I rise to speak on the 2 Bills before the House, one of which amends the Insurance Act of 1973 and the other of which amends the Life Insurance Act 1945. 1 believe that the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  gave a very good account of the background of the insurance industry. Before I address myself to the Bills I would like to say that in general terms I support my friend, the honourable member for Lilley, in his statement about the principle of maintaining a tax rebate system in one form or another- I underline the words 'in one form or another '-for those on low incomes. I do not know that the present form or that introduced in the 1 975 Budget in any way meets any ideal, but the system as described by the honourable member for Lilley does in fact encompass my views. 
I was a little surprised when I heard the previous  speaker  in the debate, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  talking about the use of advertising in the insurance industry. Although it was not my privilege to sit in this House during the 3 years period that he occupied the front bench on this side of the chamber, I must say that between 1972 and 1975, as an ordinary citizen I was constantly amazed at the amount of advertising that was done by the then Labor Government in regard to monopolistic governmental activities in the community. I had difficulty in relating the level of government advertising for something that was provided only by the government of the day with his comments today about the costs involved for policy holders in the private insurance industry. If we had a monolithic, central, monopolistic government insurance corporation, which the Labor Government tried to achieve, I venture to say that there would have been as much advertising for that as the socialist government used for all its purely governmental activities between 1972 and 1975. 
As the honourable member for Bendigo says so properly, the taxpayer and not the user would pay for it. 
The Bills before the House are interesting in the sense that one is designed to amend one old Act and the other is designed to amend a new Act. A further interesting aspect is that both Acts were introduced by Labor governments. I can only hope that the Insurance Act 1973 proves to be as good an Act as the Life Insurance Act 1945. That has been proven to be a good Act. It has been, I believe, an effective supervisor of the life insurance industry. We have not seen the collapse of any life insurance companies during the period of its operation. Despite the aberrations of the 1972-75 period-I venture to say that for insurance purposes we cannot classify that period as a national disaster- I suppose it would be fair to say that there has been a need to update some aspects of the Life Insurance Act. 
It is not my intention to deal with that matter at length at this stage. I believe it will be taken care of during the committee stage. However, I am pleased to see that it is proposed to increase the amounts governing payments of policy proceeds from $2,000 to $6,000. For the benefit of those people who read  Hansard  and those people who may be listening to the broadcast of these proceedings at the moment, that means that the amount of a policy that can be paid without taking probate or letters of administrationthat involves a long process for beneficiarieshas increased from $2,000 to $6,000. 
-I take the point made by the honourable member for Lilley. The amount of $6,000 is below the level of the average policy being taken out today. 
The honourable member mentions the surrender value as well. I think the point to be made is that the increase is a step in the right direction. I believe that it will cover a very large proportion of policies already held. So, to that extent, I believe it does have merit. Like my friend from Lilley, I hope that we will move to larger amounts as time goes by. 
Another proposed amendment to the Actprevious speakers have touched on it- is to be found in clause 36, which will enable changes to the minimum valuation basis in the Fourth Schedule to the Act, which covers the valuation of liabilities under policies, to be made by regulation. Although I can understand the honourable member for Lilley wanting some indication of the direction which the amendments will take, I do support the principle of the regulation-making power being brought into this Act. I think there are advantages to be gained from it. The point is, I think, that we have to keep up to date with interest rates and mortality tables and the expenditure made on selling policies. As most honourable members would realise, that would mean that policy holders would benefit in the sense that the life insurance companies would have larger surpluses. Although it will be the responsibility of individual life assurance companies to determine these matters, it should manifest itself in better bonuses for policy holders. I take the point raised by the honourable member for Lilley: It is important to know which mortality tables are going to be used. 
I think that we should bear in mind that these Bills are essentially technical. I do not believe that the second reading debate is the occasion to become involved in their detail. However, I point out that I support totally the updating and improving of what has been a very successful Act, namely, the Life Insurance Act 1945. 1 support also the principle of moving the appeals machinery to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. Obviously I disagree with the previous speaker in that regard. Although I would like to bow to his greater experience, I am afraid that I cannot. I support what is proposed. 
I shall take only a short time to deal with the other Bill which is concerned with general insurance. The amendments proposed are even more technical than those proposed to the Life Insurance Act. I believe that they will strengthen the administrative machinery and overcome a number of weaknesses to be found in the 1973 Act. They will have the effect of allowing the Government to collect information on the amount of business being sent overseas by, for example, brokers and agents. While I am informed that that is essentially an informationgathering exercise, I can only hope that it does not frighten off the continued practice of sending premium business overseas. As was shown by the cyclone Tracy experience, that practice does work very heavily to Australia's advantage. I think it should be realised that something like two-thirds of the cost of the Darwin disaster was borne by overseas reinsurers. I think that people of all political persuasions have to be very careful in introducing legislation which may damage the close relationship we have with overseas reinsurers, particularly British reinsurers. 
I ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  who is sitting at the table, to be cautious in any future moves that may take place which could damage the practice of Australian brokers and agents re-insuring overseas. It is very easy to be nationalistic and to talk about insuring ourselves and keeping our premiums. But Darwin has shown the dangers in such thinking. I would like to take the liberty of quoting from the second annual report of the Insurance Commissioner. I doubt whether he has been quoted more often than he has on this occasion. I refer in particular to page 34 of the report where he refers to the national disaster insurance scheme which, of course, is what everyone in this place should have in mind when talking about general insurance. There may be differences of philosophy in regard to general insurance. I almost said 'theology' because insurance has been put into the ranks of theology by some people on both sides of the political scene in this country - 
Which God does the honourable member have in mind? The scene is such that even the Insurance Commissioner makes certain that he mentions in his report the great difficulties in establishing a national disaster insurance scheme. One of the things that gives me hope is his statement that the insurance industry representatives have co-operated closely in the work done towards developing a suitable disaster insurance scheme. 
I think that what we have to bear in mind and what we have to be very sensible about is the proposition that the insurance industry is perhaps the best vehicle we can use to come to a solution in regard to natural disaster insurance. I put it to the House that I do not believe that any government department will ever have the real expertise to find a solution itself. I believe that we cannot find a suitable natural disaster scheme complex and difficult as it will be to find, without the full and continuing co-operation of the insurance industry itself. If we want any reminder of that we need only look at the damage that was caused in Darwin by cyclone Tracy. We need look no further than even the occasional earth quakes that occur in Western Australia. the State from which my friend the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  comes. Overseas re-insurance has been to our great advantage. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I resist the temptation to speak further on the Bills we are now discussing. I have given an undertaking to my Whip that I will limit my remarks. I believe in essence that the amendments to the legislation are necessary. They have been introduced to overcome the teething problems of the 1973 Act which was brought in sincerely. Although we are proposing regulation making powers in this legislation this House, and hopefully more honourable members than are sitting here at the moment, will have to take a greater interest in this area because, as the honourable member for Lilley said, insurance cannot be looked at in isolation; it has to be regarded as part of our general economic situation. Any economic policy of this country needs to include a solution to the problems of insurance. I strongly support both Bills. 
Sitting suspended from 5.59 to 8 p.m. 
-We are at present debating Appropriation Bill (No. 3) and Appropriation Bill (No. 4). Before I get to the substance of my speech there are one or two items that I would like to bring before the House. First I would like to say it is some source of satisfaction to see that the accounting procedures of departments are such that the demands for funds under these Bills are 35 per cent less than they were at this time last year. In other words, the Government is seeking only a further $326m as opposed to a necessary $506m last year. Having just heard the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  speak in the House I looked at his Department's requirements. I am intrigued to find that there is an estimated saving in his Department this year of $4. 19m under an item headed 'Maintenance, enforcement and property matters, reimbursements to States'. I would be interested to have more details of the estimate at a later time. 
I am also intrigued to find that there is to be a saving in our appropriations this year of $1,065,000 in respect of our defence cooperation with Indonesia. I sincerely hope that this does not indicate a lessening of our association with that country. 
When I heard the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  claim earlier in this debate that too much of present day economic debate was centred on the untrue fact that the Labor Government was responsible for economic chaos in Australia I could scarcely believe what I was hearing. I do not know whether I have used his exact words, but every thinking Australian is only too aware not only of the chaos that resulted from 3 years of what is now outdated socialist rule but also of the unbelievable speed with which the Whitlam Government achieved this chaos. I do not doubt the sincerity and goodwill of the honourable member for Adelaide. But I believe that if he were ever Treasurer of this country and the Party opposite were to govern again the constant adherence to the economic philosophy that was followed by Labor Treasurers would once more undo the work that the present Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has been undertaking for the past 18 months. The honourable member for Adelaide should bear in mind the comments of the then United States Secretary of the Treasury, the Honourable William Simon, when he addressed a meeting of the World Bank at Manila on 5 October last year. He said: 
Unfortunately, good economics is not always perceived to be good politics. My experience has been that politics is an art with a high rate of discount. And while the pay-off to good economics is real, it takes time. This lag, as the economists call it, is a politician 's nightmare. 
Fortunately, I think that more and more people now understand that this is the case- and I sense growing suspicion of the proposed instant solution, the quick fix. In a world of unlimited demands and limited resources, finance ministers are not only inevitably unpopular, but indeed cannot afford to be popular. We are required to be the bearers of bad tidings- to reiterate the unpleasant but inescapable fact that resources are scarce while wants are limitless. 
It is our lot, whatever our country's economic system and whatever its circumstances, to speak out for financial responsibilityto call for prudence in an age of fiscal adventure. 

 Mr Speaker, as you well know, this is the fact and the burden of a Treasurer of this House. The honourable member for Adelaide, whose amendment is made up of easy glib words, should bear this in mind. We should not forget that the last major economic statement made by the honourable member for Adelaide was selfadmittedly inflationary. We must get back to the fact that the duty of any government is not to shield its citizens from the facts. The job of our Treasurer is to reveal the facts as they are. It should not be forgotten that we are still reeling under the effects and forward commitments of the socialist Whitlam-Hayden policies of 1974 and 1975. 1 hope that the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  of the Fraser Government will, in his public statements, give more emphasis to the reasons why we have found ourselves in the economic position we now face. I am reminded of Macawber's simple statement. Macawber. as honourable members will recall, is a character from David Copperfield who in turn migrated to Australia. He said: 
Annual income £20 Os.Od.; annual expenditure £19 19s.6d.; result happiness. 
Annual income £20 Os.Od.; annual expenditure £20 0s.6d.; result misery. 
I will bring that slightly up to date and say annual income $22 billion; annual expenditure  $2lVi  billion; result happiness. Annual income $22 billion; annual expenditure $24Vi billion; result misery. There is no joy in being a supporter of a government that has to introduce economic policies to correct the extravagances of a previous government. This is the position in which this Government has found itself and in which it still finds itself. It is not too late to keep blaming the former Government. After all, the first 2 years of office of the former Government were successful because it was enjoying the fruits of policies brought down, if I may say,  Mr Speaker,  by you when you occupied the position of Treasurer in the former coalition Government. 
I listened with some interest to the passion and enthusiasm of the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  However, I must say with all kindness in my heart that I cannot agree with most of the things about which he spoke. We have to face some reality. The reason for a waiting time for people seeking defence or war service homes loans was because of legislation brought in by the government in which he was a Minister. We are trying, with this legislation as part of the scene, to bring some reality back to the whole situation of defence homes. I was very interested to hear the honourable member for Hughes refer to the circular letter which all honourable members in New South Wales, on both sides of the House, received. Not one of us in the House would not be very concerned about the possibility of any reduction in benefits to our returned ex-servicemen. Quite frankly, there is absolutely nothing in this legislation which would give that indication. 
The subject of the debate is a technical matter, providing that the staff of the Department shall come under the Public Service Act. The fact that the previous speaker became a little confused about what was happening with the departmental staff was probably due to his passion and feeling on this subject. The reality, from my own knowledge of the staff within the Department, is that the staff is quite delighted with the prospect of coming within the broader ambit of the Public Service Act instead of being under the Defence Service Homes Act. The staff appreciates the fact that it will have the capacity and the opportunities for greater promotional and career prospects as a result of this legislation. The financial aspects - 
Perhaps the honourable member for Corio has his times confused. This Government has always maintained a close and realistic relationship and liaison with the ex-servicemen's organisations. The application of all legislation that we have introduced over generations of being in government in this place since the First World War has been undertaken with complete and total consultation with the ex-servicemen's organisations. The State Secretary of the Returned Services League in New South Wales knows that and I have replied to a letter from him in such terms. 
Time is of the essence and the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  seems anxious to answer the questions that have been put to him; so, I shall not delay the House. But I want to say one thing: There has never been any legislation introduced into this House by a Liberal-National Country Party Government that has ever suggested that we have had anything less than the legitimate well-being of all ex-servicemen in this country at heart. This Bill is in accord with that history. Any suggestions to that effect from the gallant  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  or the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Hughes, would be slightly unfair and perhaps reveal that they are not as informed on the matter of the welfare of the ex-servicemen of this country as they might well be. In the 3 years in which the Australian Labor Party was in government it brought in some interesting and well needed alterations to the Defence Service Homes Act. Labor extended it to some very worthwhile and needy sections, namely- I speak with some interest here- to the single exservicemen and ex-servicewomen. But in general terms Labor confused the issue so badly that it has taken us 18 months to come to some conclusions as to what the future should be. No thinking person, no thinking ex-serviceman, would assume that 32 years after World War II, some years after Korea and some years after Vietnam, the same conditions that applied after the 1914-18 war would apply. I am sure that none of us in this chamber at the moment is privy to what the Budget will contain but I am sure that the returned services movements in Australia can rest content and not worry. I am certain that we will continue to be looking after the legitimate well-being of ex-servicemen when the Budget comes down. Although this Bill is very technical it is an indication that we are trying to plug the holes that the socialist Government opened in its 3 years in office. 
-I speak on the Bill in a somewhat humble position. I think that I am the only person to speak on it who is not a member of the medical or paramedical profession. I. suppose, in the words of the previous speaker - 
He has not spoken yet. To get back to the Bill, I must say that I did not expect to hear communism mentioned or comrades called to arms. 
Back to the Bill again - 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I have no doubt that the Minister is aware of the vexed problem of the gaoling by the Vietnamese authorities of the Coadjutor Archbishop of Saigon, Monsignor Francis Xavier Nguyen van Thuan 
-Indeed it is. I trust that the Minister regards this case as one about which we should be maintaining a very serious concern. I ask the Minister whether any representations have been made to the Vietnamese authorities since July 1976? In view of this known case of a serious violation of human rights in that no charges have been laid against the Archbishop, I ask the Minister whether, having regard for Monsignor Thuan 's reported declining health, fresh and strong representations will be made to the Vietnamese authorities asking for his immediate release? 
-It is my intention to speak very briefly in honour of Rex Connor and to pay a tribute to him as a member of Parliament with whom I shared electoral boundaries for some years. I pay tribute to his innate personal good manners and kindness at all times. As a local member he knew few, if any, peers. At all times he was most concerned for his constituents. Our association over the years, whether I was in or out of this House, related to the welfare of the people in his or my electorate. When his funeral leaves the cathedral in Wollongong on Thursday the people of Wollongong will not be thinking that they have lost a great Australian to whom due reference has been made today; they will be paying tribute to a man who perhaps has been the greatest son Wollongong has produced. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I refer him to recent Press reports that certain leading figures in the trade union movement are predicting bloodshed in the streets unless demands to hold a referendum on uranium development are acceded to. Is the Prime Minister in a position to advise this House whether the Government will bow to these threats? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Health been drawn to the high cost of installing and operating a new method of total body X-raying, technically known as computerised axial tomography scanning? Is the Minister aware that there is an area of possible abuse of such CAT scanners in Australia in that excessive claims may be made under Government approved medical insurance schemes? Is the Minister in a position to advise the House whether he has taken any action to investigate any such abuse that could arise following the recent installation of these advanced and efficient yet expensive items of medical equipment? 
I am pleased to follow the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  in this debate. I was pleased to hear of the twinkle in his eye. I must confess I did not notice it. He will accept my apology when I say that the details of his speech in 1971 have not come readily to mind. I basically agree with what he said in his speech, but do not agree with the details. One of the tragedies of tax examination in this country is that we are falling into the trap of believing that only the legal profession can give a true interpretation to the tax law. I believe that the accounting profession, of which the previous  speaker  was an honoured member in Adelaide, has to be much more prepared to be part of the public debate on taxation than it has in the past. 
If any profession is expert in the ramifications of the tax law and tax practice it is the accounting profession. I think it is a disgrace- if I may use as strong a word as that- that over the years the accounting profession has not been part of the public debate. This is not to say that people such as  Mr Risstrom,  to whom reference was made previously in this debate, are not most eminent accountants. Indeed,  Mr Risstrom  is an eminent man in this field. But in basic terms I believe that this is something to which the accounting profession has to direct its mind. I think also that the accounting profession tended to allow the legal profession to take over action before the Prices Justification Tribunal in the same way. I think there are some areas in which the accounting profession must look at itself very closely. As you know,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I had some association with the profession in the three years during which I was not in this House. 
I should like to remind the honourable member for Adelaide that I too spoke on this section of the Estimates last year. I know that he will recall with a twinkle in his eye what I said then. He will recall that among other things I advocated that the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  should consider changing the interest rate imposed on statutory reserve deposits held on behalf of the trading banks. I recall having said then that the operating rate of 0.75 per cent, which had applied since 1941, appeared to have been enshrined in some archaic attitude held by the Reserve Bank and that the Treasurer should have talks about achieving a more viable rate of interest to be paid on funds held on statutory reserve deposit. 
Unlike the previous speaker, it gives me great delight to know that my speech last year had effect and that the Treasurer did move in this matter and the interest rate paid on statutory reserves was increased upwards to  2xh  per cent as from 10 November last. Admittedly, this was not cause for great celebration, but it was a step forward. After all, it had seemed as though the Reserve Bank had been 'asleep in the lap of legends old'. 
The action taken last November was only a step forward. I believe the rate of interest is still not adequate. I make another request of the Treasurer, namely, that he consider making the rate closer to the market rates. I hope that the  2Vi  per cent will not stand for as long as that which previously applied. However, it would seem that the Reserve Bank has not moved away from its equally ancient rite that 3 per cent of bank deposits should be permanently locked up in a statutory reserve deposit. From my knowledge it would seem that whenever SRD levels fall below 3 per cent the banks are required to borrow their own deposits back, at penal rates of interests, to meet liquidity crises. 
I see no value whatsoever in this convention. If it is possible for the Reserve Bank to vary the SRD level from, say, 5 per cent to 10 per cent of total deposits held- I believe it is about  6V2  per cent at present- I see no reason why statutory reserve deposits should not be allowed to run down to zero when occasion demands. If it is to be a tool of liquidity control there is no sanity in the convention of a 3 per cent lock-up, even with the newly increased but still not satisfactory level of interest paid to trading banks. 
I do not agree with members in my Party organisation in New South Wales who, in a report, advocated the removal of the SRD as a factor in liquidity control. I believe it is a vital aspect of Reserve Bank management of those credit facilities which it is constitutionally able to control. But I believe it must be looked at closely for it would be a brave man who forecast with any degree of confidence that our banking system deposits are going to see any large replenishment from external account during the current financial year. I do not believe this debate is meant for discussion fully of this important topic. Though I do not wish to appear to be pessimistic, I believe that an intelligent and vital reassessment of the management of statutory reserve deposits should be a vital part of this Government's monetary policy in the months ahead. 
I repeat: I beg the Treasurer to reconsider liquidity forecasts arising out of a lack of large replenishments from external account, the constant pressure that will follow the quarterly payment of company tax and the residual effect of the size of the Budget deficit as predicted, and relate these factors to a new approach to the management of statutory reserve deposits. I ask him to move away from the unnecessary convention that SRDs should never fall below 3 per cent of deposits without banks incurring penal rates when they borrow back their funds. I put this very serious suggestion not so that it might be seen as a means of helping the trading banks plan their budgets more effectively, although this would follow, but rather so that such a new approach will help to even out some of the liquidity hiccups which I suspect will be our lot during the rest of this financial year. 
This is not a politically popular subject, but I believe it should be raised in this House at this time. I hope that the Treasury officials will take this matter very seriously and that the Government will view the problem of ironing out liquidity movements in this coming financial year and will look at it in a new light. I put it to them that the reassessment of managing statutory reserve deposits and their bottom rate of 3 per cent should be re-examined. 
In the short time remaining at my disposal and not having spoken on the Budget I make a few comments on the economic scene as I see it. Though there may seem to be evidence that certain sectors of the economy are still drifting, looking for a stimulus to help them along, I believe that there are signs of a gradual improvement all over. I take some comfort from the continuing downward trend of the savings ratio, that is, the rate of savings compared with total disposable income. Honourable members will be aware that the figure went to an astronomical 18 per cent in 1974-75, 15.1 per cent in 1975-76, while it dropped to 14.1 per cent in 1976-77. I have reason to believe that the figure is continuing to drop. If we as a government continue this downward trend in the next 6 months and providing we see a continuing contribution to stability by maintaining the Government's successful anti-inflation policies, we should see a consumer-based recovery during the course of the rest of the financial year, and certainly the time covered by the Budget under review. 
With little comfort coming from overseas sources as a stimulus, with scant hope of much stimulation coming from the Federal Government if we are to maintain our goal of a continuing drop in the rate of inflation, we shall have to continue to rely on consumer spending to lead our recovery. Despite the protestations of the economic gurus who sit opposite in lefty fantasyland, the name of the play is building confidence. Devaluation speculation by responsible members of this House, election speculation by those folk who operate above us in the Press Gallery, industrial anarchy and speculation as practised by the left wingers in the trade union movement, all contribute to the feeling of uncertainty which must be overcome if we are to see a healthy consumer-based recovery in the Australian economy. As Plato, in relation to the role of a government, once wrote: 
Our object in the construction of the State is the greatest happiness of the whole and not that of any one class. 
I believe that that is what our current Budget is all about. 
I thank my colleagues for their support of the estimates of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic 
Affairs. I would like to say how much I agree with what the previous speaker said, in this respect: I, too, am sick and tired of the newspapers talking about a Yugoslav doing this or a Hungarian doing that or a Pommy so-and-so doing such and such. Let us grow up- and this applies to all sections of the media and of this Parliament- and begin speaking about Australians as Australians, abandoning the use of words such as 'ethnic', 'migrant' and the like. It is about time we started to become very serious about migration. 
Earlier today we saw the Parliament trying to politicise this whole subject. It is a sorry commentary that people on both sides have tried to make the tragedies that are associated with migration the subject of petty political manoeuvre. We must ensure that abuse across this Chamber on this subject, such as we witnessed earlier, ceases completely. I have an emphathy with the honourable members for St George and Grayndler, feeling deeply as they do about the personal problems they face among the large ethnic groups within their electorates, but I hope we will soon see the whole subject of immigration lifted to its former position of warranting bipartisanship on the part of all members of this House, rather than slanging matches across the Chamber. It is futile to believe that only one side of this House has concern for the welfare and well-being of those Australian residents who have come to live here permanently from overseas. From Calwell to Holt to MacKellar there has been, this House must accept, a genuine concern by all who have administered our migration policies over the past 30 years to see that Australia is well served by those policies and that all Australians, whether born here or not, share in the bounties of our land. 
Our present Minister is a worthy successor of the successful Ministers who have gone before him, but let us stop saying who did what, and when. We should be concerned that all who live here live not only with equal opportunity but with equal dignity under equal laws. There is no room for paternalism in any of our migration policies and I hope that my colleagues, on both sides, will stop using the four letter word 'them' whenever migrants are discussed. For the new members of the House, I have what might be regarded by some as a confession: I am one of 'them'. I was born overseas. I am the son of Scottish migrants and, like the millions of other Australians who share my personal heritage of having been born overseas, would say: Let all members be aware that migrants see themselves as 
Australians who happen to have been born overseas. 
As individuals they do not necessarily regard themselves as ethnics. I am also the son of a shop steward. Overwhelmingly, migrants to Australia quickly see themselves as Australians, and this is how we, as members of this Parliament, should always regard migrants, no more and certainly no less than all Australianborn Australian citizens. This is no easy subject to discuss and I believe it a great shame that the immigration debate has become so very political in the last two or three years. It has to stop. If it does not we will find ourselves dividing into camps which will have no solution. The problems of migration face us all. No matter whether a person is a constituent of Cook, Grayndler, St George or Adelaide, the problems are common. The problems of family reunion and of getting people here who have friends are not peculiar to the Labor Party, the Liberal Party or the National Country Party. The problems of mi- ! ;ration are truly national and will have to be looked at in this light from now on. It is not good enough for honourable members to stand up in this chamber and hurl abuse at each other on such a sensitive subject. The people listening who are the subject of this debate are not amused by that. 
This is a short debate. At this stage I should like to pay a tribute to the professionalism that exists in the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I was most saddened when the Department was disbanded some years ago. It was a source of personal pleasure when this Government decided to make the Immigration Department a separate department again. It raised the Department to its position of importance. It raised it to a position where people coming to Australia felt important once more. I congratulate the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar),  who has sat through the whole of this debate, for his personal concern and involvement in the problems of migrants in Australia. As he well knows he and I have not agreed on many of the cases I have put to him. I have no doubt that as time goes on we will continue so to differ. However, I have a couple of cases before him in respect of which I hope he changes his mind. I see him nodding so perhaps he will be helpful. 
I pay tribute in this debate to people in the Sydney office of the Immigration Department, people such as George Austin, Brian O'Neill, Bruce Donald and John Vanderness, among others. These guys work their hearts out for the welfare of migrants. I know that the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  who is trying to interject has a concern for migrants in Newcastle. If he can give some more names let him do so. The point is that we have within the Immigration Department some very dedicated professional people. I see that the honourable member for Port Adelaide,  Mr Young,  is agreeing with me by nodding. 
That may be a very good suggestion. I share that concern with the honourable member for Port Adelaide. I hope, however, that in the administration of the migration policy in the coming 12 months, while we keep our regard for the employment aspects and restrictions which are vital, we will see a growing sophistication in the statistics held as to what positions are available and what positions are not available. Great progress has been made. From my own experience I believe that is a good relationship between the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. But I believe it is due for even further refinement. There are activities in Australia which are still not met by local availability of staff. I hope that in the coming weeks we will see a further sophistication of relationships between the two departments to work out more realistic tables as to where job vacancies exist in Australia. 
I congratulate the Minister on his approach to the refugee problem. In Australia we have no reason to hold our heads down. We can hold our heads high because of our migation policy in this regard. I hope that it continues to follow this pattern. As we all are very much aware the refugee problem will not lessen as the years go by. It is not my wish at this stage to talk about which country should supply refugees or from which country Australia should accept them. I hope that we maintain the truly international approach we have had to the acceptance of refugees into this country, irrespective of their political background. I wish that I could speak longer on this subject which is very dear to my heart. I hope that as a result of this debate we will see the subject of migration taken out of the field of petty political point making. 
I must confess that as I was listening to my colleague the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  I thought we were going to have the first debate on industrial relations in Antarctica. I must confess that I think members on both sides of the chamber would have been at a loss to work out what the situation should be. 
I am asked whether there are penguins in Antarctica. I am told that brass monkeys may be found there, but I am unaware of their causing industrial disputes. Returning to the estimates under discussion, I should like to comment on the matter the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  raised. He referred to my constituent,  Mr Charlie  Oliver, and his expulsion from the Australian Workers Union. I endorse the remarks that the honourable member for Hindmarsh made about this man truly being one of the noble men of the trade union movement in Australia. I find it difficult to believe that he would be guilty of the things that have been said of him today. 
I wish to speak on two matters and follow my friend the honourable member for Calare  (Mr MacKenzie by talking of the youth employment programs of this Government. I have heard members of the Opposition say during this Estimates debate that this Government is doing nothing practical for unemployed youth. I think that is a load of hogwash, and I think it is about time the public was reminded of just two of the schemes this Government brought in. I will leave all of the others for later discussion. I refer, of course, to the Community Youth Support Scheme, which is being implemented with great success. There is no talk of conscripting youth. There is no talk of using unemployed youth in wrongful labour. The CYSS scheme is a very practical exercise in Government support for the registered unemployed youth in the community, and it should be receiving the support of each and every member of this chamber on both sides. It is not political. It is something that all honourable members, including the spokesman for the Opposition on this subject, should be giving their total support. Of course, it is not the full answer, but it has developed a new system and that is the use of community committees in industrial problems. I do not suppose it is fair to call it an industrial problem in the sense of problems that we have grown to talk of as industrial problems, but certainly it is something that we should be promoting to help get the chronically unemployed youth on the road to employment. 
I would like to mention a couple of things that we have found in the Cook electorate with the CYSS scheme. One of the traumas that we are finding amongst the chronically unemployed youth is an unbelievable degree of illiteracy. These are not young people leaving special secondary schools for the mentally retarded or for the handicapped; these are young people leaving the normal educational system as we know it. We are finding that an unbelievably high proportion of these young people is incapable of writing and incapable of reading and therefore totally incapable of communicating with employers. They are absolute set-ups for industrial blackmail. They are the sorts of employees who can be totally destroyed by unscrupulous employers or totally used by unscrupulous unionists.  (Quorum formed.) 
I thank honourable members for the support I am getting from this side of the chamber in mentioning the Government's program for helping unemployed youth. I pay a tribute to the people who are working under the education program for unemployed youth, another scheme that was introduced by this Government. If I may quote from a document I have in front of me, the estimated cost per trainee is something like $220 a month, and we estimate that in the current year something like $700,000 will be spent in this new program. I think it should be clearly stated that the courses we have brought forward are practical and are working, but they will only work if they get the support of everyone in this chamber. Whether it is the Commonwealth Youth Support Scheme or the education program for unemployed youth, we have to be prepared to be nonpolitical in these matters and get out and help the chronically unemployed youth. 
I agree with the honourable member for Calare that we make a mistake when we assume that all the registered unemployed are dole bludgers. That is a comment that was made a long time ago by people not on this side of the chamber. I think it does us well to remember that the unemployment problem amongst the registered unemployed youth in this community is as much a social problem at present as it is an unemployment problem. We have to look at the education facilities and we have to work out what has to be done to improve our education facilities. It is intolerable to think that young people can attend school to the age of 15 years and be recognised by their teachers as being incapable of reading or writing. This is indeed what is happening in the Sydney area today. Some estimates have put the proportion as high as 40 per cent. If ever there was a condemnation of an educational system, it is this one factor. 
I do not want to get involved in any of the industrial matters that have been discussed today by people who are obviously involved in them. I want to draw the attention of the chamber to the chronic problem of registered unemployed youth. I hope I have done this in the few minutes at my disposal. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Veterans' Affairs. I preface it by referring him to the representations I have made on behalf of my constituents in Cook, and in particular the Miranda sub-branch of the Returned Services League, who have expressed concern and some apprehension about recent variations to repatriation benefits. I ask the Minister whether he can inform the House what the real position is regarding the Government's record concerning repatriation benefits since coming to office two years ago. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Health, refers to the controversial  Mr Milan  Brych. Has the Minister given any further consideration to any action which the Federal Government might or will take so that a clinical evaluation of the expensive treatment provided by  Mr Milan  Brych in the Cook Islands for cancer sufferers can be undertaken? 
-We would not let him into the Cook electorate, let me tell you that. Can the 
Minister advise the House whether he has any knowledge of the range of fees charged by this man to those seeking his controversial treatment? 
I ask the Prime Minister a question supplementary to that just asked of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. In view of the various meetings and discussions which took place here yesterday, will the Prime Minister assure members of this House that the interests of the Aboriginals at Aurukun and Mornington Island have been securely safeguarded in the agreement reached yesterday with the Queensland Government and its representatives who visited Canberra? 
I shall resist the temptation to mention subjects that have already been covered be previous speakers. We on this side of the House have entered into an arrangement to get the legislation through as quickly as possible. However, when one considers that we are talking about a BUI which seeks to authorise the expenditure of $US90m, it is a great shame that we have moved away from the idea of treating these Bills as financial matters. I understand fully that by the present arrangement Qantas Airways Ltd can borrow money in its own right but as someone interested in finance I think it is a great shame that we do not have the details of the loan. Who is the lender? What is the interest rate? Until last year this was the traditional form of discussion on these types of Bills. I express my personal disappointment that that is no longer the case. 
Because of the time limitations I shall pass over that disappointment and turn to more important matters in the legislation itself relating to the purchase of the aircraft. I agree almost entirely with what my colleague the very informed honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  said about the local air transportation industry. I should like to think that the purchase of this new Boeing 727-200 series aircraft wil go some way towards relieving the pressure on the trunk route bookings for passenger aircraft. I strongly suspect that it is already 12 months too late and that we wil be asked for many more aircraft in the next two or three years to meet the ordinary commercial demand on trunk routes in Australia. 
I shall not continue with that matter. It is something we can debate at great length and in detail when the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  presents his decisions on the report on air transportation. We know he is considering very deeply and thoroughly, to the benefit of all Australians. I hope that the decision to buy this new convertible passenger-cargo 727-200 series aircraft will allow the Minister to take a more generous approach and give approval to those small companies which are keen to promote the carriage of air cargo to those parts of Australia which cannot possibly be serviced by these large aircraft. I refer, of course, to the closed charter operators. I merely point out the great need for the smaller companies which are prepared to enter into smaller cargo ports to get on with their future planning. I am sure that the Minister, with his well-known and clearly demonstrated concern for isolated and small towns, wil be looking generously at the applications already before him. I am sure that his decision will be made soon. 
I now refer to the Qantas Airways Limited (Loan Guarantee) Bill, which relates to the confident purchase by Qantas of two more 747B aircraft. Living near an airport, I am glad that this aircraft is to replace the 707 aircraft, but it is only part relief for the noise problem. I am a little concerned that Qantas is now standardising into one aircraft type only, namely, the 747B. Other long haul carriers are moving into a more sophisticated standardisation, aircraft type such as 747Bs, 747SPs and DC 10s. I realise that this requires sophisticated planning. I am most disappointed to see that Qantas Airways Ltd is not doing it in this way. One can only assume that the managerial policy of the Qantas Board is to remain on its main routings only and to give up forever the sense of enterprise and spirit that was truly responsible for the successful growth of this famous and well regarded airline. 
The fact that we do not have any aircraft flying across the Indian Ocean to mainland Africa; the fact that we are no longer flying eastwards to the United Kingdom via the United States of America, Canada, Mexico or the West Indies; the fact that we are contracting routes forever to a few gold-bound safe routes, suggests to me that with these additional aircraft, the purchase of which we in fact approved today, Qantas should have a more exciting look at itself and consider flying once again to Mexico and the West Indies, across mainland North America and across the Indian Ocean via Mauritius and Nairobi to European ports. Further it should consider equipping itself with such proven successful aircraft as the 747SP. In looking at these new markets one wonders how many honourable members are aware that the Mexican market, for example, has a population three times that of the Canadian market which we seem to face so eagerly. Mexico is an area which I believe Qantas vacated at great cost to Australia, if not to itself. Perhaps there is a need for younger voices in places of authority within our national, international carriers administration. Perhaps there is too comfortable an attitude that the Government will always back them no matter what commercial decision is taken. Perhaps the airline's administration should test markets with greater vigour and certainly in greater co-operation with other Australian interests. With the level of Government support as witnessed in the Bill before the House, Qantas should be much more concerned about trade and tourism into new areas. I hope that the acquisition of these two new 747Bs will sharpen up our national carrier into testing these new routes and return to being as competitive as it was in earlier days when it was also a regular financially successful operation. 
I know that there are many truly dedicated, very experienced and highly skilled people throughout the vast staff of Qantas. I am glad and very grateful that they are there. In fact, a large number of them live in my electorate. Therefore it is with no small amount of reluctance that I question whether the senior administration of this airline is acting with enough excitement and imagination in what is a very competitive and cut throat business namely international air transport. Perhaps the executives of Qantas could allay my concern in this regard. I do question whether they arc doing the right thing in equipping themselves with one aircraft type at a time when sophisticated diversity would seem to be the answer. Perhaps Qantas has already made up its mind to allow Australian domestic airlines to take over some of its shorter international routes. Whilst I believe that this would be a good idea, and that Ansett Airlines of Australia and Trans-Australia Airlines should be allowed to move into the New Zealand and south-west Pacific markets, I suspect this is a subject for detailed debate on another occasion. 
Finally, I believe we should be very thankful that all our major airlines, both domestic and Qantas, have such enviable safety records over such a long period. I congratulate the staff of these companies for their dedicated application and effort in this regard. However, it is important that the parliament should continue to approve these airline equipment Bills. I hope that in the future we will receive details about the loans for careful scrutiny and debate. On the face of it this Bill has become a transport Bill. But any Bill which ask the Parliament to authorise the expenditure of $90m, to my simple economic mind is a finance Bill. I believe that we should have the details before us for a discussion at this time as we have done for the past 20 years. I conclude by saying that I strongly believe that Qantas has a magnificent record of being a great airline. What I emphasise is that some evidence of administrative imagination and excitement is required if the jumbo sized challenges of future international air transportation are to be met for the advantage of all Australians. 
I speak on the Commonwealth Banks Amendment Bill with real pleasure because I believe that the enactment of this legislation will add another form of government action which will reflect the real concern of this Government for the welfare of active small business people. After listening to the two previous Opposition speakers, whom I respect as individuals, it became glaringly clear that one of the tragedies of the Opposition is that it has never understood what the banking system in Australia is all about. I can recall that when the shadow Treasurer of 17 years became the 
Treasurer of this country he had an interview with some visiting merchant bankers from overseas. I disclose no confidences when I tell the House that his remarks to the visiting merchant banker were that he did not really know whether there was a future role for merchant banks in Australia and, he asked: 'Anyway, what do they do?' Honourable members can imagine the terror into which this put the visiting merchant bankers. Here was a man who they thought would control them. He had no idea of what they did and no idea of how to control them. There was a glorious ignorance in the Whitlam Government with regard to the money market and the banking system of this country. 
-I see that the honourable member for Robertson has just crept into the House. 
Silent Sam they call him. He has just crept into the House and is talking about the banking system. It is a shame that as a small businessman himself he has not been here for the whole debate. Let us recall what the Government has done. Reference has been made already to the fact that in October last year,  Senator Sir Robert  Cotton- I do not think he was knighted then; he was certainly the Minister for Industry and Commerce- presaged this legislation in the Senate in a substantial statement dealing with small business finance. I recommend that statement to all honourable members on both sides of this House. It was equally heartening to those on this side of the House to hear the Prime Minister, Malcolm Fraser, state again in his policy speech last year the need for some action and of his intention to move in this matter. I congratulate the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  for bringing this legislation before the House so soon after the recent election. 
My friend the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Aldred)  has described in a most excellent manner the positive achievements of the Fraser Government since last December. I have no need to repeat his sentiments. I am very happy to endorse them. What he described and what the House and the country must take note of is the fact that our whole approach to the problem of small business has been systematic and planned. Of course there can be no doubting that this is a most unfortunate section of the community. It is a section of the community that everybody has overlooked, except, if I may say so, the socialists of this country. One of the easiest ways for socialists to nationalise a country is to see that small businessmen of all categories are put out of business, receive no encouragement and are taken over and controlled by large businesses which the socialists then proceed to nationalise one by one. If we do not really understand this situation let us look at some of the countries where the so-called social democrats have taken over. This has been their exact method of operation and, with due respect, it was the exact method of operation of the Whitlam Government. Any government which could introduce a 25 per cent tariff cut across the board could have had no concern for the small businesses that were thrown out of business almost immediately. Let the small businesses of Australia remember that Act which was introduced by the people who today maintain that they and they alone have an interest and a concern for small businessmen. They talk with forked tongue. 
Getting back to the legislation and resisting the temptation to talk about the Opposition, I point out it is vital that we protect and encourage those small businesses currently in difficulty. As my friend from Henty asked earlier: 'Who got them into that difficulty'? It is worth remembering that it was not the present Government. We must also consciously encourage the establishment of new, vigorous, virile small businesses throughout Australia. They are the very lifeblood of the Australia we want to see coming about. I hope that the Treasurer, on assuming the new role of becoming more involved than previously with the Commonwealth Development Bank's borrowing program, will instruct that Bank that it must remain aware of the need for and of new small business enterprises when determining its new style lending policy, as required by this legislation. It should not merely provide developmental finance for established small businesses only. This new lending policy must be applied to new entrepreneurs who have been restricted from getting under way because of a lack of developmental finance. The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  mentioned  Senator Sir Robert  Cotton's remarks in the Senate last October. Let me quote from that speech.  Senator Sir Robert  Cotton went on to say: 
The Reserve Bank has been advised that it is the Government's policy that adequate finance should be made available to small business and that no arbitrary limits should be placed on such finance. It has been asked to inform the major groups of financial institutions that lending criteria should be reviewed in the light of the Government's policy and to approach finance industry groups with a view to achieving better communications within their respective areas, aimed at improving the finance facilities available to small businesses. 
All honourable members on both sides of the House have had constituents come to them and say that they have been informed by their local bank manager that the reason they have not been given a loan is because Reserve Bank restrictions have forced bank managers to reject a particular overdraft application.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you and I have taken this matter up with the present Treasurer and previous Treasurers on each occasion we have had this matter before us. On each occasion we have had a firm and reliable assurance from these men that no credit restrictions were in force, most certainly not with regard to small business. Perhaps there have been instances of bank managers making these excuses as an easy way out when in fact the application for credit has been refused either because of the inability of the business involved to meet the requirements of trading banks, which are not in a position to provide developmental finance, or because of the incapacity of the business man or woman to show proof of an ability to service a larger debt in the necessarily short term nature of trading bank overdrafts. We heard the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  talk about the Commonwealth Development Bank as if it were just another trading bank competing with the trading banks around the town. Obviously the Opposition does not have a clue in creation as to what on earth a Commonwealth Development Bank is meant to be. It is meant to provide funds that are not available anywhere else in our banking system. We heard the sarcasm of the honourable member for Hughes about the statement that 'prospective borrowers will need to establish'- I quote from the Minister's speech, as did he- 'to the satisfaction of the bank, that the finance sought is not otherwise available on reasonable and suitable terms and conditions'. That shows that honourable members opposite do not have even the first clue about what development finance is all about. It is like their hide, luxuriating in this ignorance, to move an amendment to this legislation. 
It is significant that the Commonwealth Development Bank can now make the longer term loan that development finance involves. It is very significant- and I hope all speakers on the other side are aware of it- that the Commonwealth Development Bank will also provide assistance and advice for the full range of business undertakings that will now benefit under this newly expanded area of the Commonwealth Development Bank. The honourable member for Hughes also mentioned as a fact that this side of the 
House had no interest in the Commonwealth Development Bank. My God, it was this Government that brought the Commonwealth Development Bank into existence. It was my party which saw the real need for a development bank. It saw the need for that development bank to be under the auspices of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation. I think that even though it had difficulties in the beginning in determining what its role was it has provided a useful service to business people in Australia. Anyone who is at all concerned about small business should be delighted that we brought this legislation forward. I am pleased to see the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in the chamber. I repeat that he is to be congratulated on bringing in this legislation so quickly after the recent election. 
I refer to one point about the Commonwealth Development Bank that may not win me many friends. I hope that the Commonwealth Development Bank will not be using this new area of lending responsibility as a means of encouraging small businesses to take all their banking business to the Commonwealth Banking Corporation. I know that it has always been within the charter of the Commonwealth Development Bank not to require any organisation seeking developmental finance from it to bring all its banking business to the Commonwealth Trading Bank or Commonwealth Savings Bank. Honourable members will realise that the three banks are the constituent members of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation. However,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  from my own experience 1 have never been convinced that in fact this is not the case. I hope that the passing of this legislation will give the Treasurer a fresh opportunity of reminding the Executive of the Commonwealth Development Bank that it is there to service the customers of all the trading banks and that no pressure should be brought to bear on clients of the trading banks to see that their accounts are transferred to other members of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation. That is a fact that I have lived with for a long time as a former banker. 
I do not suggest that the officers of the Commonwealth Development Bank are in any way acting with malice or mischief. I believe that these things may have come about through an over-abundance of enthusiasm on the part of the officers. I accept that this professional enthusiasm on their pan has caused them to encourage accounts to be transferred to the Commonwealth Banking Corporation and its other member banks, namely, the Commonwealth Trading Bank and the Commonwealth Savings Bank. I beg the Treasurer to take up this matter and to see that this policy is very firmly brought in again. I do not wish to be contentious on this Bill. I feel that it is beyond that. I know of the deep concern of the following  speaker,  the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  for finance for small businesses, of his personal experience in small business and successful experience in several small businesses. I hope that that will allow him to look beyond the philosophy of his own party and to accept from his personal experience that this Government has had a real interest in seeing that small businesses are kept operating. 
I know it must have come as an agony to the next  speaker  to hear the honourable member for Hughes mention that half-way during the Whitlam Ministry his party changed the Commonwealth Development Bank. The question was thrown at us of what we had done to encourage the Commonwealth Bank to get into tourism and the other areas that it extended into back in May 1974. It is a simple question. What on earth did the Whitlam Government do for the second half of its time in this place on the treasury bench in this regard or in any other regard? I put it to the House that the difference between the Opposition and the Government is quite fundamental. As one goes around the traps the sort of comment one hears is: 'The present Government may not have done all we wanted it to do but at least we know it is helping. With that previous lot'- I quote my constituents, not myself- 'we were convinced that they were out to destroy us That is the basic difference in our philosophies. 
We may not be succeeding in certain areas, we may not have achieved the things that we desire to achieve- and as a member from this side of the House of the Small Business Advisory Council I can say that there are many areas in which I would like to see further things done- but with this legislation before the House, and I hear that apart from this incredible amendment the Opposition is going to support it, it is time for the House to sit back and say: 'Thank goodness the Government has acted in this area. Thank goodness it has expanded its operations and is encouraging the Commonwealth Development Bank to operate.' 
It is very interesting to hear the next  speaker  talking about hearts and flowers when we are talking of such a serious matter. I sincerely hope that his speech gets beyond hearts and flowers in his time before this House. I congratulate the new spokesman on Treasury matters in the Opposition benches and I am pleased to see that he has sat through this debate. I think we have someone from the Opposition who does understand what the money market and the money system are all about.  His  occupation of that position as spokesman for the Opposition is most welcome. Long may he hold that position.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I strongly support this legislation. I think it is a very significant move in our systematic plan to help small business. As I said- and it is worth repeating- Treasurers are seldom popular; it is the nature of their job. 
He does not claim to be any exception but he must be popular as a result of the legislation which is before the House today and which must have the support of this House unamended. 
I address a question to the Prime Minister. Can the Prime Minister inform the House whether Australian beef exports to the United States will be harmed as a result of legislation recently passed by the Senate in the United States of America, which legislation is designed to limit overall beef imports into that country? 
-Can the Prime Minister tell the House to what extent the Budget brought down last week is likely to result in bringing the Australian economy back to the mythical economic buoyancy of 1974, a buoyancy which seems to preoccupy the thoughts of the party opposite? Can the Prime Minister explain to the House on what possible grounds 1974 could be regarded as a buoyant economic year? 
-I ask the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations a question. In view of the harsh social and economic effects that the present incredible strike affecting petrol supplies in New South Wales is having, can the Minister inform this House of the real nature of the various industrial disputes currently plaguing the oil industry and causing such disruption, particularly to the citizens of New South Wales? 
Is the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware of the recent ruling of the Federal Court that employees of Telecom Australia cannot be stood down without pay? As  Mr Justice  St John ruled that any decision to stand down employees without pay was outside the award that governed Telecom employees but within the Telecommunications Act, can the Minister inform the House whether he considers any action should be taken to resolve the confusion which now exists in the minds of Telecom employees? 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, on the same grounds as my colleague the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  which related to the attendance at the sub-committee of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence which is investigating human rights in Russia. As will be shown from the document which was incorporated in  Hansard,  the attendance of all members of that sub-committee is substantial and there is no evidence of any member of that sub-committee regularly being absent. 
I would also point out in view of this point that the membership of that sub-committee to date has been most bipartisan in its approach to the witnesses who have appeared before it. I would hate to think that matters such as this one would damage the reputation of the sub-committee as it proceeds with its hearings. I also seek your indulgence,  Mr Speaker,  to point out that the membership of that sub-committee, with the exception of the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  is identical to that of the other subcommittee which has been appointed to investigate issues concerning South Africa. I seek leave to have the attendance list for that subcommittee incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

-Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware of an article which appeared in yesterday 's  Australian Financial Review  stating that the European Economic Community's agricultural commissioner is expected to press for an across-the-board freeze on farm support prices for next year's farm price review for that organisation? In view of the Deputy Prime Minister's response to a question of this nature on 16 
November regarding agricultural subsidies in the European Common Market and following the British Prime Minister's recent statement regarding agricultural price support, can the Minister inform the House and Australian rural producers what are the chances of Australian farm produce gaining easier access to European markets in the foreseeable future? 
I refer the Prime Minister to a statement made by President Carter of the United States this week in which it appears that he may be taking a new line on his country's commitment to overseas friends. In view of this speech, I ask the Prime Minister whether the ANZUS treaty can be regarded as still having the strength and security which a credible defence policy for Australia demands? 
It is a great relief to be able to speak in this debate, after having waited for six days, as the debate seemed to be getting on at the end of every day. However, I would just like to say that it is a good sign in this House when a foreign affairs debate is left on the Notice Paper and can continue. I guess we can all say that there is no doubt that we are going through a great period of tension and strain in international relations. It is fitting that we are given this opportunity to speak, not only early in the session, but at a time when the events to which the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  made reference in his speech are actually taking place and changing day by day. It is worth mentioning for the record that when this debate started, China was playing imperialistic gunboat politics on Vietnamese land in a somewhat massive manner. Yesterday we had an assurance that the Chinese had achieved their purpose and we are being asked to believe that they are planning to return behind their own borders, having duly reprimanded the robber Vietnamese. Who knows; it could be that China will have withdrawn all its military presence in Vietnam by the time this present parliamentary debate concludes. But perhaps that is asking for a debate in this House to continue for just too long a period. 
Whatever the reason it is, or should be, a chilling thought for all Australians to realise that this relatively newly admitted member to the United Nations not only can, but will and does use its military might, based on almost limitless manpower to reprimand a smaller nation. Such military action needs a mighty lot of explanation which has not as yet come forward. Perhaps the present Administration in Washington and the about-to-retire Government in Great Britain will consider this simple fact when they are negotiating and concluding their sales to the Chinese Government of major military equipment of an offensive as opposed to a defensive capability. It may be merely regarded as a trading success to those major trading countries, but to the smaller countries in the Pacific and Asian areas, including Australia, it should be the cause of grave and continuing concern. 
The balance of military power in our region is changing in an horrific manner and at a time when  President  Carter is negotiating with the Russians on a new strategic arms limitation talks agreement. The  President  said in his State of the Nation address as recently as 24 January this year: 
We have no desire to be the world's policeman. America does want to be the world 's peacemaker. 
I can only hope that this most powerful, democratically-elected leader in the world has thought through his decision for America to be a major supplier of military equipment to China and what the results of this trading in arms might be for Australia's part of the world during the next decade. By all means let Australia trade with China; by all means let us be friends, even buddies, but for Heaven's sake, let us not be blinded to the implications of the arming of China by certain Western countries. It was a comfort to note that the Foreign Minister in his speech to the House spoke on the reality of international power politics. For too long in this House we have seen power politics pushed under the rug, albeit a Persian rug. But we have not been stating the facts or their consequences in this House. The facts are that there is an international communist bloc. Honourable members opposite might prefer to call it an international socialist bloc, but the hard reality for us in Australia is that this communist bloc exists, albeit in two blocs. There is a Western bloc and there is a non-aligned bloc, or do we still refer to it as the Third World? I was relieved to hear the Minister say:   . . power will continue to be the main arbiter in international affairs. 
Talk to the Tibetans, talk to the Burmese, talk to the Koreans, talk to the Laotians, talk to the Vietnamese; they will tell some remarkable tales as to how close the Minister's remark is to reality. There can be no doubting the involvement of international power politics on the African continent. When the Minister made reference to the armed intervention in southern Africa, those of us who had visited parts of southern Africa and eastern Africa during the past decade breathed a sigh of relief that we now have an official realisation by way of statement as to what is going on in that part of the world. Those of us who have been warning of the threat of expanding military activity and subversion were appalled to find that the appropriate and proper concern against the apartheid policy had appeared to beguile official thinking away from the realities of international intrusions. Let me repeat what the Minister has said officially: 
In the Horn of Africa and Zimbabwe, military and political confrontation is not just a threat but an established fact; 
what happens in southern Africa is of great significance to the balance between the two major forms of international power; and 
instability as known in the critical areas is infectious and it is a dangerous fallacy to assume that local conflicts can be contained and managed indefinitely. 
I believe that we have been badly mistaken in confusing our natural and proper abhorrence of the policy of racial apartheid as practised in so many countries under a great variety of names with official disinterest and forgetting to observe very objectively the issue of international power politics, to quote the Minister, which have become of fundamental importance, particularly in the areas of southern Africa and Indo-China. 
There would not be a person in this House who did not concern himself with the lack, in varying degrees, of human rights throughout the many countries in the southern African subcontinent. It is a cause of distress to many of us that the colour of a person's skin or his racial background can prove to be of such personal disadvantage and distress. One would hope that our good offices would be used energetically to rectify this situation, particularly in all of the countries of the southern African sub-continent. I repeat, for too long we have ignored the power politics of the international scene as it has affected the whole African continent. Thus it was a great comfort to hear the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  refer in his statement to the fact that power would continue to be the main arbiter in international affairs. 
What is the extent of military and subversive intrusion into the sub-continent, or the continent? Possibly we may never know but it is there. We talk of the invasion of Kampuchea by the Vietnamese and the invasion of Vietnam by the Chinese, and we express horror. The presence of Cubans in Angola and in the Horn of Africa is no less an invasion, which should call for revulsion from both sides of this House. Australia should be using every opportunity afforded it at the United Nations to ensure that these Cuban troops and civilians who are being used as support staff are sent back to Cuba pronto. The role of Cuban troops is a source of total disruption in the south-western section of the African continent and has been ignored by the Western authorities for far too long. The silence of the British Socialist Foreign Minister and the quaint attitudes of the United States Ambassador to the 
United Nations are a disappointment which clearly should be re-examined. These gentlemen, though properly concerned about racial laws in the southern African area, have closed their intelligent eyes to the realities of international power politics. 
But what of the Cuban presence? How real is it? Official estimates have shown that Cubans began to arrive in Angola in the spring of 1975. By mid- 1978 it was estimated that 20,000 Cubans were in that country. They are still there. The Cubans moved into Ethiopia between November 1977 and January 1978. According to the  New York Times  of that period, there are in that country some 12,000 Cuban troops and 1,000 Soviet Russian advisers. The estimate goes as high as 17,000. In the  London Times  of 9 August 1 978  Sir Herbert  Marchant, a former British Ambassador to Cuba, was authoritatively reported as saying that in the whole of Africa there were 45,000 Cubans, spread over 14 different countries. That is quite a military presence, especially by a country from another and far distant geographical area. 
Why is it, then, that the Secretary-General of the United Nations has recommended a united force for Namibia, but apparently turns a blind eye to 20,000 Cubans in Angola? We have reason to believe that the Cubans are becoming decidedly unpopular with the Angolan people, even when one considers that the Marxist President of that country keeps them there to protect his own position. One hears only today that President Machel of Mozambique is experiencing the same trauma with the Cuban and East European presence in his country. Although that cannot be ratified or confirmed, it does bear out things that I have been hearing in recent months about his personal concern over the presence of foreign troops- not other Africans- on his land. 
A lot has been said in the last two or three days about who sent the Cuban troops, and the relationship of  President  Castro and  Mr Brezhnev  of the Soviet Union. It is fair to say that it would be naive of us to believe that the presence of Cuban troops was merely the result of a decision made in Havana by  President  Castro. I repeat, nobody in this House can witness the presence of such a large number of foreign troops in a country the size of Angola and not say something about it both here and, hopefully, in the United -Nations. 
In looking at the complex problems of bringing true independence to Namibia and Zimbabwe let us not under-estimate the difficulties that need to be resolved before such independence can be achieved. Let us not be fooled by some statements which seem to say that a solution is acceptable only if it is perfect. We must be aware that peace and independence will be achieved only when the international power blocs let the local people make their own decisions. 
It was my intention to go into this situation further but before I close I would like to say that I believe in the last two weeks two other significant statements have been made in this House. One was that of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that the southern African area was of strategic importance to this country. The second was in his answer to a question that I asked of him on 22 February regarding the ANZUS treaty. It was very reassuring to have the Prime Minister say that the ANZUS commitment would not be modified or limited; that in fact it applied in its totality; that it had not been changed. 
In conclusion, I would like to say briefly that one of the significant events in recent weeks, one that has received practically no publicity, has been the avoidance of war between Argentina and Chile. It is significant that a new force for peace, using the offices of the Pope in the person of Cardinal Antonio Samore, has been employed so effectively and so practically. I think that it should be pointed out that almost a century has elapsed since the good offices of the Vatican were last used in such a peaceful manner. I certainly welcomed the intrusion and also the effect of the negotiations that have been carried on by Cardinal Samore, which have, in fact, prevented war on the South American continent, at least for the time being. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Blewett)  adjourned. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Health been drawn to the posters currently being distributed by the Australian Medical Association to its members for display in their waiting rooms? As this campaign appears to be concerned with the accusation of alleged overprescribing of drugs by the medical profession and a concern by the AMA 'that many patients appear to believe medicines are necessary to solve every problem when reassurance or advice to carry out simple measures may be all that is needed', can the Minister advise the House whether this campaign to counter unrealistic expectations on the part of the public in relation to the prescribed drugs has his and the Government's support? 
-I refer the Acting Minister for Transport to the decision of the Federal Aviation Administration in the United States of America to issue an airworthiness directive for all United States airlines to inspect their DC 10 aircraft and take immediate corrective action if necessary following the recent tragic crash of one of these aircraft in Chicago. Appreciating the history of safety of Australian airlines and the keen observance of safety regulations set by Australian authorities and appreciating that no Australian airline operates the DC 10 aircraft, can the Acting Minister inform the House what the Government can and will do to ensure that the five other countries whose airlines operate DC 10 aircraft into Australian airports will institute immediate safety checks on these aircraft similar to those being undertaken by the United States authorities? 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. In view of the cross allegations being made about who should or should not be accepting responsibility about the industrial disputes that have been plaguing the Kurnell oil refinery in my electorate, and therefore everybody in New South Wales, is the Prime Minister in a position to advise this House whether the Federal Government has been in touch with the Wran Labor Government in New South Wales on this matter and with what effect? 
-This is the first opportunity I have had to rise in this House and congratulate Bishop Abel Muzorewa on his being sworn in yesterday as the first black Prime Minister of Zimbabwe-Rhodesia by the first black  President  of that country. I wish him well in the difficult road that lies ahead in binding the wounds of the civil war, achieving peace and securing international recognition of his country. It is a tremendous task but with the personal knowledge that I have of him, I am confident that he is of the calibre and that he possesses the strength of character to overcome the hurdles that face him and his country. I know from personal conversations that I have had with him over the past 12 months that he is aware of the tremendous responsibilities that confront him and his black majority government. As he said when the results of the election were made known: 
The people of Zimbabwe-Rhodesia have struck a resounding blow for democracy and freedom. 
I am very conscious of the fact that I am not alone in the Australian Parliament in wishing Bishop Muzorewa success. In fact it would be true to say that the overwhelming majority of my colleagues on the Government side support him on his journey through difficult international waters to get international recognition and the effective lifting of trading sanctions against his new black majority government. It is not my intention to pre-empt the report of the three members of this House who were sent to observe the Rhodesian elections on behalf of the Australian Parliament. The pleasure of reading our findings will have to wait until next week when we will be tabling our report. However, it would not be unethical for me to say tonight that I share the obvious pleasure that Bishop Muzorewa must be feeling tonight on the swearing in of his new multi-racial ministry. I repeat part of a statement that I made to the Press before leaving Salisbury a couple of weeks ago. In that statement I said: 
Keeping in mind the instant diplomatic recognition of the governments of Afghanistan, Iran and Uganda which have taken power recently without the advantage of democratic elections, I believe Zimbabwe-Rhodesia has a strong case for international recognition, bearing in mind the 64 per cent poll. Such recognition must depend, of course, on a genuine transfer of power in the public service and other government instrumentalities reflecting the will of the new black majority Muzorewa government. 
Prime Minister Muzorewa is a great patriot. He deserves encouragement. He is entitled to world endorsement. I pray and trust that the course to recognition is not too long and that under his leadership Rhodesia will move towards peace and a better standard of living for all its citizens of all racial backgrounds. 
-I would like to speak to a few of the subjects which the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris),  brought before the House. Firstly, I am pleased to see the Acting Minister for Transport  (Mr Macphee)  in the House. He has come from a Cabinet committee meeting to hear the debate and I think it should be recorded that he has been sitting in the House throughout most of the speech of the previous  speaker.  Secondly, I would also like to say that the allegations that the Government is being anti-ethnic towards the Greek and Italian communities are just so much nonsense. It would have been interesting if the previous  speaker  had decided to bring himself up to date. For example, I have reason to believe that the arrangement between Sydney, Darwin and Greece was concluded and agreed upon today. It would have been rather nice if the shadow Minister for Transport - 
I am sorry but I was under the impression that the previous  speaker  had mentioned Greece. If I have made a mistake, I apologise to the honourable member. I would also mention that to say we are not negotiating in respect of the Italian situation does not represent the true position. We have been negotiating with the Italians since October. It has not been a case of putting off the negotiations from one week to the next. They have been serious and hard negotiations. In the few minutes available to me before the suspension of the sitting for dinner, I would like to emphasise to all honourable members the airline policies of this Government. There is concern shown that the members of the Australian public get cheaper air fares. I think that the success of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  during the last year indicates what has been achieved in this important field. A further point that has to be borne in mind in any discussion is that no responsible Australian Government can enter into negotiations with any country in any part of the world in which Qantas will be disadvantaged. We do not have to love Qantas or travel with the airline all the time. But we have to accept the fact that it is our national carrier. We have an immense investment in Qantas. Any Minister or spokesman for this Government who was not aware of his responsibilities in this regard would be acting with a degree of irresponsibility that I could not support. 
The shadow Minister for Transport mentioned the Boeing 707s being acquired from Qantas by the Royal Australian Air Force. He had every reason to mention them because I see that the Minister for Transport mentioned them in his second reading speech. Let me repeat again and again that 80 per cent of the usage of the 707s that have come into the VIP fleet will be for defence purposes. Eighty per cent of their usage will be for defence purposes. 
The Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence confirms that. This 80 per cent will not include usage in collecting refugees, as announced by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  this week; nor will it include usage for overseas personalities such as British royalty, heads of state from friendly countries and other official guests who come to this country. There is a total misunderstanding- I will be generous and say that it is merely a misunderstanding at this stage- by the Opposition as to the purpose of the planes. Let the members of the public who are listening to this speech at the moment be aware that for an infinitely small amount of their time these 707s will be used for the purposes of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  That should be clearly known, clearly stated and clearly understood by the Australian public, even if it is misunderstood by the Federal Opposition in this Parliament today. 
The Bill we are discussing today does not cover the use of the 707s or the airline agreements. These matters are covered in other Orders of the Day . The title of the Bill is the Qantas Airways Limited (Loan Guarantee) Bill 1979. Its stated purpose is to authorise the Federal Treasurer to guarantee borrowings raised by Qantas Airways to finance the purchase of the eighteenth and nineteenth Boeing 747 series aircraft. It is the clear understanding of this House that Qantas can and does borrow money in its own right. However, this Bill is not for the purpose of approving the amount for the purchase of the aircraft; nor does it involve any department of the Federal Government in the actual direct expenditure of money. The House clearly understands this too. However, in providing Federal governmental guarantees to a loan which is not described to the House, we are establishing a very large possible financial commitment for the future. 
All we know and all we have been told is that the guarantee will be limited to 80 per cent of the total purchase price of these two aircraft and associated equipment and that this represents $US94m or the equivalent in other currencies. I must lodge my objection to this, just as I did in a similar debate last year when we went through the same exercise for the purchase of aircraft 16 and 17. If we are to guarantee a loan I believe Qantas should be made to provide for the information of honourable members, firstly, the purchase price of each of the B747s under discussion; secondly, the purchase price of the spare parts being bought; and thirdly, the purchase price of the associated equipment being acquired. It is fascinating to know that plane No. 1 8 will be for use on the routes between Australia and Frankfurt and across the Pacific to the United States of America. It is grand to note that 747 No. 19 will be used for peak services to the United Kingdom, Europe and the United States. That is fascinating information but it is remarkably vague as to what the future plans of Qantas may be. I shall return to this matter at a later time. 
If the House is to approve the loans, not only should we know the price of the equipment being bought, and in some detail, but also we should be told in precise terms where the loan money is being obtained, in what currencies it is being obtained and what rates of interest will apply. We do not know the form of the loan which will be approved in principle today. It is most disappointing. The formality of the Treasurer being authorised to guarantee an unspecified loan of $US94m under the cloud of such a lack of knowledge by the House is an empty formality. When I raised this matter last year a stony silence was the stern response from the Minister. If no information is to be provided about the loans or the purchase price of the aircraft, spare parts and associated equipment- whatever that means- on the grounds that it would be revealing commercial information of advantage to other competing purchasers of Boeing 747 aircraft, let that be said. Let us determine whether we should go through with this charade of seeking parliamentary approval. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
-Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was referring to the fact that we had not been given enough information on the financial side of the operations of Qantas. Honourable members will recall that I had mentioned that if Qantas were maintaining this silence for commercial reasons, of not letting its competitors know, then this should be said, so that the Parliament did not have to go through the charade of seeking parliamentary approval. I think we have to determine whether Qantas, in its avid desire to be selectively self-governing, should seek its internal loans on its own commercial standing without government guarantees. In case some honourable members opposite might consider my views on this subject as being somewhat radical, coming from someone on this side, I would point out that the information which I am seeking- the man who is to follow me in this debate will be very much aware of it- in this debate has been traditionally supplied to this House. It is only in the last year or two that we have not had this information when similar Bills were presented to the Parliament. 
I ask the Minister for Transport to include this information in all future Bills relating to aircraft purchases. I ask the Minister: Is the form of the Federal Government guarantee which this Bill is to authorise available to non-governmental airline operations in Australia? If not, then why do the private operators not have this negotiating advantage when seeking overseas loans for aircraft purchases?  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you would be aware that a government guarantee is worth a sizeable amount of interest when one seeks loans on the overseas money market. We must remember that when one seeks loans in the American market government guarantees are very real. They are very real in America, if not the practice in Australia. I think the non-government airlines do have a disadvantage in seeking loans without government guarantee. As a former banker, I am disturbed by the lack of information provided. I believe it is something that should be investigated by the Minister and a determination reached as to whether this type of Bill should be presented by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Treasurer or whether, as I believe it should be, the Treasurer should come into the House himself seeking a direct authorisation, with the full disclosure of information, that is financial information. 
I am generous enough to suggest that Qantas has nothing to be secretive about, but I fear that in coming to the House with no information it leaves itself open to such an accusation by less generous people. As we are aware, these airlines loans Bills have become the opportunity to talk on the Government's airline and related policies. However, I would point out that Government Business orders of the day Nos 42, 61 and 67 should be the time for such discussion. It would be a fair comment for all of us to say that the managers of the business in this House seem to be working against such opportunities being made available. I would like to move on to a few comments about the usage and composition of the Qantas Boeing 747 fleet. I would like to take this opportunity of personally congratulating the Minister for Transport for the great effort he put into the negotiations for cheaper air fares for passengers coming to and going from Australia. It was a gargantuan task and there can be no doubt that it has brought cheaper travel to Australians seeking to go overseas. The Australian public has cause to thank the Minister for Transport. 
I do have some concern, however, as to what the new arrangements are doing to encourage non-Australian residents to come to Australia to utilise the tourists facilities in Australia. But with a lack of statistics on just who the air travellers are, it is not possible to draw any conclusions. I have no doubt that the Minister is alert to this problem and regards as important the matter of getting Qantas and the other airlines which are participating in the cheap fares to co-operate and to provide those statistics. The shadow Minister for Transport made mention of the type of passengers now being carried. With respect, the figures that he cited still do not go as far as I would like them to go. I know he would agree with me on this point. I think we should be showing whether the increased volume of travellers to and from Australia are Australian residents. I believe this more sophisticated data should be requested in firmer tones from all the airlines, including Qantas. 
If cheap air fares are going to be very successful- as they look like they are going to be- one can only hope that the board of Qantas has taken the right measures to order more planes to cope with its future needs. I look forward to an announcement that Qantas has acted with due efficiency, that it has not lost sight of the need for an even greater expansion of the Qantas fleet, and that it has the best possible priority listing with the manufacturers of the 747 for aircraft No. 20 and beyond. Last year I was critical of the apparent lack of planning by the Qantas board for new routings. For a long time I have expressed concern that Qantas is limiting itself more and more to the main routes and is moving away from the sense of enterprise and spirit that had been the reason for the early success of this famous airline operator. However, I took some hope when recently I saw the  Chairman  of Qantas give a European-type embrace to one of his fellow directors by kissing him on both cheeks during a television program.  Sir John  Egerton seemed duly embarrassed, but there were some of us who wondered whether, in view of this new public display of affection and attitude by the new directors of Qantas, there were not some new routes in the air as far as Qantas was concerned. 
I believe we are very fortunate in having the Qantas operation. It was my good fortune to travel from London recently on a Qantas flight. I would like to pay a tribute to the three cabin crews who serviced the people on that plane. There was a time in recent years when Qantas was regarded as having perhaps grown a little stale in its service. I was delighted to notice within the last few weeks how fresh and how good its service, in fact, was. We are fortunate, too, in that we have so many professionals working for the organisation. I would, however, reiterate the criticism which I made last year. Although we have an international airline like Qantas- I remind honourable members that Qantas was the first round-the-world airline- we no longer have a Qantas plane flying across the Atlantic, over the Indian Ocean or across the South Pacific. One begins to wonder, when one looks at the equipment problems with regard to New Zealand, and as we move into the use of the efficient 747 aircraft, whether we should not be encouraging Qantas to diversify in its future equipment needs. 
One would immediately think of the use of the very successful airbus operation. One has to consider, when one mentions these subjects, that the operation into Wellington from Australian airports is still the source of much embarrassment. I think it is a great shame that the Qantas airline has not grappled with this problem in co-operation with Air New Zealand. 
The honourable member for Fremantle does not know, with due respect, the Wellington situation. DC 10s cannot land in Wellington. That is one of the problems. I am sorry, but the honourable member's information is not right. If we continue to buy only 747s, which are perfect planes for using on the main routes, we have a problem in that Qantas will not be able to experiment. I put it to the House and to the Minister that the problem of deciding who shall carry whom across the Indian Ocean is something that Qantas has to face very quickly. At present, the problem of getting to southern Africa is in the hands of one airline only. The problems of getting to eastern Africa do not involve Qantas. I put it to the Board of Qantas that it should consider flying to Mauritius and Nairobi. If it has some problem about flying into southern Africa- God knows what that problem could be- it is about time that its members set to, stopped kissing each other on television, and worked out some of the problems that face them. 
I support the acquisition of more 747B aircraft. I wish that more excitement and spirited discussion were forth coming from the Qantas Board about what it might do in the future. It is nonsense to think that we are not getting any comments from the Board's members about what the future tourist trade to Australia will be. I commend to  Sir Lenox  Hewitt and his worthy Board members the suggestion that they should now be giving thought to where they should go in the future apart from the main lines to London, various European ports and the American ports. I support the Bill. I sincerely hope the Minister will decide that in future such Bills will be treated as financial Bills and that on separate occasions more opportunity will be given to discuss airline policy in this country. 
-by leave-As honourable members have heard, it was not my intention to speak. I shall be very brief because I agree with what has been said by the two previous speakers, particularly the comments by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  about myself. The elections were fair, efficiently run and, in my opinion, they were honest. I think that is perhaps the most we can expect from any election anywhere in the world. We went as three individual members of this Parliament without the endorsement- as the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton)  has said- of committees, parties or any group in this building. We therefore went as hard nosed, experienced politicians, looking for mistakes and errors, which we did not find. 
Hard nosed, but charming, nonetheless. We went and saw these elections and came back impressed. As I said the other night, we hope that the new government of Bishop Muzorewa- this is my own personal hope- will in fact gain endorsement in whatever form that may take. But more importantly, despite the struggle that this country has had for a long time, one can only hope from the efficiency with which their election was run- observed not only by ourselves but also by other observersthat the Muzorewa Government will receive encouragement, which is what it badly needs from now on. I was very proud to be a member of the delegation and to have represented this Parliament on a bipartisan basis at such an important function on the African continent. I thank the House for its indulgence. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 28 May 1 979: 
1 ) Can he state what general elections have taken place in the Republic of Uganda since its establishment as an independent country within the Commonwealth of Nations in 1962. 
If so, what percentage of the electorate voted and was there a genuine choice of candidates from differing political parties at each election. 
3 ) When did Australia establish diplomatic relations with that country. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 28 May 1 979: 
1 ) Can he state what general elections have taken place in the Republic of Mozambique since 1 965. 
If so, what percentage of the electorate voted and was there a genuine choice of candidates from differing political parties. 
When did Australia establish diplomatic relations with that country. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 28 May 1 979: 
1 ) Can he state what general elections have taken place in the Republic of Angola since 1 963. 
If so, what percentage of the electorate voted and was there a genuine choice of candidates from differing political parties. 
) When did Australia establish diplomatic relations with that country. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 28 May 1 979: 
1 ) Can he state what general elections have taken place in the Republic of Kenya since its establishment as an independent country within the Commonwealth of Nations in 1963. 
If so, what percentage of the electorate voted and was there a genuine choice of candidates from differing political parties at each election. 
) When did Australia establish diplomatic relations with that country. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 28 May 1979: 
1 ) Can he state what general elections have taken place in the Kingdom of Lesotho since its establishment as an independent country within the Commonwealth of Nations in 1966. 
If so, what percentage of the electorate voted and was there a genuine choice of candidates from differing political parties at each election. 
When did Australia establish diplomatic relations with that country. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 28 May 1979: 
1 ) Can he state what general elections have taken place in the Kingdom of Swaziland since its establishment as an independent country within the Commonwealth of Nations in 1968. 
If so, what percentage of the electorate voted and was there a genuine choice of candidates from differing political parties at each election. 
) When did Australia establish diplomatic relations with that country. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 28 May 1979: 
1 ) Can he state what general elections have taken place in the Federal Republic of Nigeria since its establishment as an independent country within the Commonwealth of Nations in 1960. 
If so, what percentage of the electorate voted and was there a genuine choice of candidates from differing political parties at each election. 
When did Australia establish diplomatic relations with that country. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 28 May 1979: 
1 ) Can he state what general elections have taken place in the Republic of The Gambia since its establishment as an independent country within the Commonwealth of Nations in 1965. 
If so, what percentage of the electorate voted and was there a genuine choice of candidates from differing political parties at each election. 
When did Australia establish diplomatic relations with that country. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 28 May 1979: 
1 ) Can he state what general elections have taken place in the Republic of Botswana since its establishment as an independent country within the Commonwealth of Nations in 1966. 
If so, what percentage of the electorate voted and was there a genuine choice of candidates from differing political parties at each election. 
When did Australia establish diplomatic relations with that country. 
-I refer the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs to a Press report that his Department is alleged to have made a confidential labour force projection showing increases in unemployment of up to 50,000 annually until 1983. Will the Minister inform the House whether his Department has made any such projection? Should this be the case, will the report remain classified and confidential or will it be presented to the House for the information of honourable members? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 28 May 1 979: 
1 ) Can he state what general elections have taken place in the Republic of Zaire since 1 965. 
If so, what percentage of the electorate voted and was there a genuine choice of candidates from differing political parties at each election. 
) When did Australia establish diplomatic relations with that country. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 28 May 1 979: 
1 ) Can he state what general elections have taken place in the Republic of Ghana since its establishment as an independent country within the Commonwealth of Nations in 1957. 
If so, what percentage of the electorate voted and was there a genuine choice of candidates from differing political parties at each election. 
) When did Australia establish diplomatic relations with that country. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 28 May 1979: 
Can he state what general elections have taken place in the Republic of Zambia since its establishment as an independent country within the Commonwealth of Nations in 1964. 
If so, what percentage of the electorate voted and was there a genuine choice of candidates from differing political parties at each election. 
When did Australia establish diplomatic relations with that country. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 28 May 1979: 
1 ) Can he state what general elections have taken place in the Republic of Sierra Leone since its establishment as an independent country within the Commonwealth of Nations in 1961. 
If so, what percentage of the electorate voted and was there a genuine choice of candidates from differing political parties at each election. 
When did Australia establish diplomatic relations with that country. 
-I would like to mention one or two points relative to the former  speaker,  the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass).  I do not think anybody on the Government side of the House is sweet-selling or soft-selling the Budget. I think every responsible member of this House- most of us are on this side- regards the Budget as tough and responsible. We have not regarded the Budget as something about which we can say: 'Aren't we good boys? Haven't we given you everything you wanted?' No. We have said that Budgets are to be used to stabilise the economy, to bring responsibility back into government. We have said that employment, development of the country and the welfare of our citizens are important matters which must be seen within the context of the whole Australian economy. The previous  speaker  was wrong. We have presented a tough and very responsible Budget. 
He mentioned that this year we have budgeted for a possible inflation rate of 10 per cent. Let us recall when the Labor Government put down a Budget in this House. I think the then Treasurer is now the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  He framed his Budget on an inflation rate of 16 per cent and a 22 per cent increase in wages for the year. Now that is responsible! We have heard the speeches of several members in the Opposition. I refer to one honourable member who said that the Government seems to have an adherence to a deficit fetish. Does this mean that if the Australian Labor Party were back in power it would start the printing presses again? Does that mean that we would go through the same thing again? In each of the 10 years leading up to 1974-75 Budget outlays remained at about 25 per cent of gross domestic product. Yet in 1974-75 this proportion- highlighting, as it did, the massive diversion of resources to the Government sector as opposed to the private sector- moved to an unbelievable 30.5 per cent in the short space of the 12 months to June 1975. If ever there was economic madness it was that. We talk of responsibilities in various sectors of the community. Yet in 12 months the proportion of the gross domestic product diverted from the private sector to the public sector increased from an average of 25 per cent to in excess of 30 per cent. That was inviting trouble. 
I see that the honourable member for Maribyrnong is shaking his head. I remind him that in the 1 975 Budget the then Labor Treasurer slashed funds provided under the aged persons homes legislation. Honourable members opposite will recall that that Budget meant that one organisation alone in Sydney received a cutback in funds which caused the closure of 600 beds in one year. There was sheer chaos as a result of the 1975 Budget despite the fact that the then Treasurer was desperately trying to bring the economy back into order following the two previous Budgets. The whole basis of the Labor Government policies of those days required that there be- as it used to put it- some increase in the share of resources going to the public sector. As another politician would have once said: Some increase! ' We are still trying to overcome it. These are the difficulties we have to face. 
I do not wish to speak for the whole of the time allowed. It gives me pleasure to support the Budget. I support the thrust of the Budget. I am pleased with the success that has been achieved by last year's Budget. I stand behind the remark of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that this Budget maintains and reinforces the ongoing strategy in that it consolidates and strengthens Australia's economic recovery as a firm foundation for Australia in the 1980s. Is that sweet talk? Scarcely. Much nonsense has been spoken by the Opposition. I am not exactly speaking to a crowded House now but when the Opposition benches were full Opposition members were asking: Is there any real recovery? Is the community regaining confidence? I remind them that employment in the private sector is 64,000 more than it was a year ago and that there are 18,000 fewer unemployed than at this time last year. 
No matter what is said by the Opposition or by some of the Fourth Estate the fact remains that unemployment has been reduced from 6.2 per cent to 5.8 per cent of the work force. However, the problem of unemployment does remain. Not one of us in this House can rest easy where the welfare and progress of the chronically unemployed youth are involved. Despite what has been said from the other side of the chamber, it was encouraging to see the general increases for unemployed youth included in the Budget that was brought down. 
Let us recall some of the increases. We saw an increase in expenditure of $25.9m for the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training scheme. We saw an increase in and a maintenance of the expenditure for the Community Youth Support Scheme. We saw an increase in the expenditure on occupation information to assist people seeking jobs. We saw the provision of $67.9m for the National Employment and Training System. We saw an expansion of the program for assistance to Aboriginals, with an estimated expenditure of $ 17.5m this year under the Aboriginal training programs. That is $3.6m more than that of last year. We saw the doubling of expenditure on training in industry and commerce programs to $2. 4m. We saw an increase for national youth organisations under the program for assistance to youth organisations. We saw the introduction of funding of pilot projects under the voluntary youth program. We saw a continuation of the program of upgrading and modernising the Commonwealth Employment Service. We had a good Budget with regard to attempting to solve the problem of the chronically unemployed youth. This is something that has been approached by honourable members on both sides of the House, because the number of chronically unemployed youth is no longer merely an economic statistic, if it ever was. 
We have to face continuing social problems. We have to face the reality that in parts of Australia we are going to have an under-class, as the sociologists now call it. We are going to have a group of unemployed people who are the children of unemployed people. We need to do something to give these people hope again, and this does not mean just jobs temporary occupations. If I may use a colloquialism, this Government has been really fair dinkum in its approach to the problems of the unemployed youth. It is not a simple thing and neither side of this Parliament can come forward with a simple solution. For the reasons which I have outlined already, I put it to the House that we have some cause to be proud. 
There is only one small matter upon which I would like to comment, and that is the decision to limit the value of motor cars for depreciation and leasing purposes. I do not wish to canvass the details at this time, but I point out that unless some solutions and answers are found- they have not come forward in the Budget- we are going to have considerable unemployment in certain sections of the motor industry. I hope that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and his advisers will be coming forward very soon with some realistic proposals in regard to the selling of these motor cars. At the moment there is total confusion, and that does nobody any good at all. I hope that thought will be given to the fine print when it comes to working out the depreciation and leasing provisions for some cars. I will not go on any longer. I repeat that this Budget has been responsible. It reflects the growing confidence that exists in the manufacturing industries around Australia. We hope that from now on this will be improved in South Australia. We can look at this Budget and say that the Budget of 1979 was the Budget that turned Australia towards the progress and prosperity that we hope will take place in 1980. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 28 May 1 979: 
1 ) Can he state what general elections have taken place in the Republic of Malawi since its establishment as an independent country within the Commonwealth of Nations in 1964. 
If so, what percentage ofthe electorate voted and was there a genuine choice of candidates from differing political parties at each election. 
When did Australia establish diplomatic relations with that country. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 28 May 1979: 
1 ) Can he state what general elections have taken place in the Republic of Tanzania since its establishment as an independent country within the Commonwealth of Nations in 1961. 
If so, what percentage of the electorate voted and was there a genuine choice of candidates from differing political parties at each election. 
) When did Australia establish diplomatic relations with that country. 
I ask a brief question of the Treasurer. Will he advise the House when the new pay-as-you-earn tax schedules, reflecting the Government's reduced tax rates, will be available to the public? 
-As a member of the Sub-Committee on Human Rights in the Soviet Union, which undertook this inquiry, I want to speak for a few moments on this subject. I will not enter into the use of any of the jargon that was just used. I believe that the report speaks for itself and recommends itself. I believe that the members of the Sub-Committee worked assiduously with a concern for evidence and with a concern to bring as wide a group of people as possible before the Sub-Committee. I stand strongly by the conclusions which have been drawn up within this report. I commend the report for its modest language, and, above all, for its very careful concern for the evidence that was put before the Sub-Committee. 
I think it is only fair that the Parliament, our peer group, should be told that at no time did this Sub-Committee accept evidence that was not cross-examined, thoroughly re-examined and reexamined again. There is nothing that appears in this report lightly or glibly. I think these facts should be known at this time of the presenting of the report to the Parliament. It was with regret that 1 noted the reservations expressed at the end of the report. It was with regret that I noted that the reservations came from three members of the full Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. None- I repeat, none- of the reservations came from members of the Sub-Committee itself, which was totally bipartisan and approached the matter in a totally non-party political manner. 
I think this report will stand by itself. It has been carefully written and carefully considered. I regret that some question has been raised as to how it will affect our international relations. I strongly stand by the conclusion stated in paragraph 65 at page 160 of the report. I believe that if we have anything in us at all we have to be concerned with human rights round the world. The Helsinki conference must have some meaning somewhere to some people. If it does not have a meaning in this Parliament, we might as well throw half of our thoughts and moralities out of this place. We are concerned here with civil rights not only in the Soviet Union but also throughout the world. There is an obligation on every one of us on both sides of this House, within the facilities available to us, to follow through this concern. 
It is my pleasure to be a member of another committee which is inquiring into another geographic part of the world. God alone knows, there is a lack of civil rights in that area . Are we to ignore that? Are the members of this other committee, because of remarks that have been made by certain people in this House and in the other House, to ignore the lack of human rights that has already become evident to that committee? Ofcourse not. Without trying to presage what will be in the report of that committee, I suspect that paragraph 65 of the conclusions and recommendations of this report will have a vital meaning to everybody in this House. More importantly, if we cannot stand up, if we cannot hear evidence from minority groups of various countries in the world as a free, completely independent committee of this Parliament, then God help us again. 
To say that Australia will be disadvantaged by this report is a lot of poppycock. As the  Chairman  of the Committee said in the Senate only a short time ago, who is kidding whom? They are not his words. He has more eloquence than I. Do we really believe that Russia will stop trading with us because of this report? Do we really suggest that Russia will not look at us? I see one or two honourable members opposite, whom I shall not name, nodding their heads. I regret to say that they have a lot to learn about international trading relationships. Nations trade with other nations when and how they want to. They do not take care of these things. Because they trade where they want to trade there is an extra responsibility on us as members of Parliament to show that we are concerned in taking evidence about human rights round the world. What chicken-livered people we would be if we started to run away from responsibility and from the need to hear evidence? I shall read part of the Reservations that was expressed because we did not hear evidence from the Soviet Union. The report states. 
It is realised that the Soviet Union was asked to provide contrary evidence and refused to do so. This however, would be expected . . . 
That completely denies what is stated in the rest of the reservations. Of course I agree with the reservations in relation to our ability to get witnesses from overseas and our having the funds with which to obtain them. As with foreign affairs we do take evidence with regard to overseas areas. I strongly support the people who suggested that funds from this Parliament should be made available so that witnesses can be brought here. At the risk of creating a conflict of interest, I believe that committees should also have the right to travel when they are given a responsibility to investigate overseas areas. Above all, the important aspect of this document is that a group of members from both sides of this Parliament was given the responsibility to look into human rights in the Soviet Union. As has been said, we cannot turn away from that responsibility. We were charged to carry out that task by our peers, by everyone who is sitting in this chamber today, and by others. To have done less than we have done in the preparation of this report would have been a total abrogation of our individual and collective responsibilities as members of this House. In conclusion, I pay tribute to  Senator John  Wheeldon, whose honesty and frank approach to witnesses, evidence and the conduct of the meetings was exemplary and should be followed by most other people in this House if they have such a responsibility. I commend the report. As I said earlier, the report speaks for itself and certainly recommends itself. 
I preface my question to the Minister for Veterans' Affairs by reminding him that, despite the recent amendments to the Acts governing repatriation benefits, merchant seamen who were captured and held prisoner of war during World War II are still not treated as members of the forces and therefore do not qualify for benefits. I ask the Minister whether he will give careful and favourable consideration to having what has become a very small number of Australian merchant seamen repatriated home from POW camps after World War II defined as veterans so that they may be entitled to appropriate repatriation benefits in view of the abnormal privations and hardships suffered in their wartime service to Australia. 
